BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA

for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, February 19, 2014, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-107(dd) Public Testimony, public testimony will be permitted at
regular and special meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this
time to deliver testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three (3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board
Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-107(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of
the Board.
PRESIDENT

14-0692
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY VIOLENCE
ADVISORY COMMITTEE

PREVENTION,

INTERVENTION

AND

REDUCTION

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article VI, Division
4, Sec. 2-526 through 2-527 is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-526. Cook County Violence Prevention, Intervention and Reduction Advisory Committee.
(a) There shall be created a Cook County Violence Prevention, Intervention and Reduction Advisory
Committee ("Advisory Committee") made up of the President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners or his or her designee and six other members appointed by the President. The Advisory
Committee shall be in place for the Cook County 2013 Fiscal Year. Members of the Advisory Committee
shall include:
(1)The President or his or her designee; and
(2)Three members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; and
(3)One member with extensive law enforcement experience; and
(4)Two members with extensive social service and community outreach experience.
(b) The members of this Advisory Committee shall serve without pay.
(c) The purpose of the Advisory Committee is to establish an advocacy and resource group regarding
various violence prevention programs or ideas that can be administered or outsourced by the Cook County
Justice Advisory Council for the Cook County 2013 Fiscal Year. The Advisory Committee shall cease its
duties at the end of the Cook County 2013 Fiscal Year, thereafter, the violence prevention, intervention and

Page 2 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

reduction strategies and programs undertaken by the Advisory Committee shall be the responsibility of the
Justice Advisory Council Department and its Director.
(d) The members of the Advisory Committee shall meet quarterly or as designated by the President or his or
her designee during Cook County Fiscal Year 2013.
(e) In addition to studying various violence prevention programs, the Advisory Committee shall review
existing gun court models and best practices; the Advisory Committee shall present a recommendation
regarding the creation of a Cook County Gun Court to the Cook County Board of Commissioners in such
time as to facilitate the implementation of said Court by July 1, 2013.
(f) The Advisory Committee with the assistance of the Director of the Justice Advisory Council shall
prepare an annual report describing the work undertaken in Cook County Fiscal Year 2013. The annual
report shall be distributed to the Cook County Board of Commissioners, on or before November 1st of each
year. The report shall include minutes of meetings of the Advisory Committee over the past year and a
description of the types of programs that have been implemented or outsourced. The Justice Advisory
Council shall provide administrative support as necessary.
Sec. 2-527. Cook County Violence Prevention, Intervention and Reduction Programs.
(a) Appropriations dedicated to the Justice Advisory Council for violence prevention, intervention and
reduction programs shall be administered by the Justice Advisory Council as recommended by the
Advisory Committee in Cook County’s 2013 Fiscal Year. The Advisory Committee shall designate at least
$100,000.00 of the appropriated funds annually for education and outreach related to the prevention of the
straw purchases of firearms; funds allocated for education and outreach may be allocated for internal
programs, grants or valid procurements subject to the approval of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. Funds allocated in Cook County Fiscal Year 2014 and thereafter for violence prevention,
intervention and reduction programs shall be administered by the Justice Advisory Council Department.
(b) Violence prevention, intervention and reduction programs approved by the Advisory Committee may be
administered as a grant to qualified 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) organizations selected following a grant
application process, request for proposal or request for qualification issued by the Justice Advisory Council.
To be a qualified 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) organization, said organization must have been in existence for at
least 3 years and have previous violence prevention, intervention, reduction and community outreach
experience. Grants issued to qualified 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) organizations shall be selected by the
Advisory Committee subject to the approval of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The Justice
Advisory Council shall be authorized to issue the grant application process, request for proposal or request
for qualification and shall be authorized to execute said grant agreements as approved by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners. In Cook County Fiscal Year 2014 and thereafter, the Director of the Justice
Advisory Council shall be authorized to issue the grant application process, request for proposals or request
for qualifications and shall be authorized to execute said grant or contract agreements in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
*This item was deferred at the 1/15/2014 meeting of the Board of Commissioners.

Page 3 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1232
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and JERRY BUTLER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, GREGG
GOSLIN, STANLEY MOORE, EDWIN REYES, ROBERT B. STEELE and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REVISING PROCUREMENT CODE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 FINANCE, Article IV
PROCUREMENT CODE, Division 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS through Division 10 INVOICES FOR
SERVICES RENDERED of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:
DIVISION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 34-120. Short title.
Chapter 34, Article IV of this Code shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Procurement
Code."
Sec. 34-121. Definitions.
Unless defined elsewhere in this Procurement Code or in Chapter 1, Section 1-3 of the County Code,
capitalized terms used in this Procurement Code shall have the meanings set forth below.
Affiliate. An "Affiliate" of, or a Person "Affiliated" with, a specified Person shall mean any Person that
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common
Control with, the Person specified.
Applicant means a person who submits documents and information seeking certification, continued
certification, or re-certification as an MBE, WBE, VBE, or SDVBE to the Office of Contract Compliance.
Assessor means the Assessor of Cook County.
Auditing Services means the formal examination of accounting records or financial statements for
compliance with financial accounting standards applicable to governmental entities, which functions are
generally exclusively performed or supervised by Persons licensed and authorized to do business as public
accountants in the State. The term "Auditing Services" shall also include any independent reports and
management recommendations derived or resulting from the performance of auditing services and which
reports and recommendations are included within the scope of the Contract for Auditing Services.
Bid means a response to a Bid Notice containing all Bid Documents and any other documents or
information the Bidder is required to provide.
Bid Documents means the documents, specifications, forms and other information necessary required
for a Bid.

Page 4 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Bid Notice means the notice from the CPO regarding a Procurement which shall include: a general
description of the Procurement; information necessary to obtain the Bid Documents; and the date, time and
place for both the submission of Bids and the opening of the Bids.
Bid Price means the dollar amount set forth in a Bid.
Bidder means any Person who submits a Bid.
Certified or Certification means the granting of Minority Business Enterprise (“MBE”), Women's
Business Enterprise (“WBE”), Veteran Business Enterprise (“VBE”), or Service Disabled Veteran
Business Enterprise (“SDVBE”) status to a Person.
Chief Financial Officer or CFO means the Chief Financial Officer of Cook County.
Chief Information Officer or CIO means the Chief Information Officer of Cook County.
Chief Procurement Officer or CPO means the Chief Procurement Officer of Cook County. References
in this Procurement Code to actions required to be taken by the CPO shall be deemed to include designees
or staff of the CPO.
Consulting Services means the rendering of analysis and advice requiring specialized expertise in a
particular subject area or field. Such expertise may have been gained by education or experience in the area
or field. The term "Consulting Services" expressly excludes auditing services.
Contract shall include any written document to make Procurements by or on behalf of Cook County.
Contract Compliance Director or CCD means the County Contract Compliance Director.
Contractor means the Person that enters into a Contract with the County.
Control. The term "Control", "is Controlled by", or is "under common Control with" shall mean a
Person that has the power to directly or indirectly affect the management or the policies of the other through
ownership of voting securities or voting rights, by contract or otherwise. means the unfettered authority to
directly or indirectly manage governance, administration, work, and all other aspects of a business.
exclusive, ultimate, majority, or sole control of the business, including but not limited to capital investment
and all other financial matters, property, acquisitions, contract negotiations, legal matters,
officer-director-employee selection and comprehensive hiring, operation responsibilities, cost-control
matters, income and dividend matters, financial transactions, and rights of other shareholders or joint
partners. Control shall be real, substantial, and continuing, not pro forma. Control shall include the power to
direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the business and to make the day-to-day as
well as major decisions in matters of policy, management, and operations. Control shall be exemplified by
possessing the requisite knowledge and expertise to run the particular business, and control shall not
include simple majority or absentee ownership.

Page 5 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Court Ordered Child Support Arrearage means that the Circuit Court of Cook County has issued an
order declaring the respondent in arrearage on child support obligations in a specific amount as of the date
of that order, or that another Illinois or non-Illinois court of competent jurisdiction has issued such an order.
Covered Services means janitorial cleaning services, window cleaning services, elevator operator and
starter services, and security services.
Distributor means a Person supplying a product with written confirmation of its authorized distributor
relationship with a manufacturer. Such distributor may be stocking (maintaining inventory) or
non-stocking.
Elected Official means the President and Commissioners of the Cook County Board, Assessor, Board
of Review, Chief Judge, Clerk of the Circuit Court, County Clerk, Recorder of Deeds, Sheriff, State's
Attorney, Treasurer, and any other elected official included in the Cook County Appropriations Ordinance.
Employee means any individual working on a full-time basis, and providing services for an Employer
under a Contract. "Employees" shall not include workers required to be paid the prevailing wage pursuant
to Section 34-161.
Employer means any Person that employs one or more full-time Employees.
Execution means to sign a Contract, after it has been approved by the CPO or the Board, as required by
this Procurement Code.
Joint Venture means an association of two or more Persons proposing to perform a for-profit business
enterprise. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions of the
relationship between the partners and their relationship and respective responsibility for the Contract.
Living Wage means those amounts established from time to time by the CFO, and posted on the CPO's
website pursuant to Section 34-160.
Local business means a Person, including a foreign corporation authorized to transact business in
Illinois, having a bona fide establishment located within the County at which it is transacting business on
the date when a Bid is submitted to the County, and which employs the majority of its regular, full-time
work force within the County. A Joint Venture shall constitute a Local Business if one or more Persons that
qualify as a "Local Business" hold interests totaling over 50 percent in the Joint Venture, even if the Joint
Venture does not, at the time of the Bid submittal, have such a bona fide establishment within the County.
Local Small Business means a Local Business which is also a Small Business.
Not-for-Profit Organization means an entity having tax exempt status under the United States Internal
Revenue Code.
Person or Persons means any individual, corporation, partnership, Joint Venture, trust, association,
limited liability company, sole proprietorship or other legal entity.

Page 6 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Procurement. The term "Procurement", "Procurements" or "Procuring" means obtaining supplies,
equipment, goods, or services of any kind.
Professional Social Service Contracts or Professional Social Service Agreements means any contract
or agreement with a social service provider, including other governmental agencies, nonprofit
organizations, or for profit business enterprises engaged in the field of and providing social services,
juvenile justice, mental health treatment, alternative sentencing, offender rehabilitation, recidivism
reduction, violence reduction, foster care, substance abuse treatment, domestic violence services,
community transitioning services, intervention, or such other similar services which provide mental, social
or physical treatment and services to individuals. Said Professional Social Service Contracts or Professional
Social Service Agreements do not include CCHHS managed care contracts that CCHHS may enter into
with health care providers.
Procurement Code means Chapter 34, Article IV.
Proposal means a response to an RFP.
Proposer means a Person submitting a Proposal.
Public Works means all fixed works constructed or demolished by the County, or paid for wholly or in
part out of public funds administered by the County. "Public Works" as defined herein includes all projects
financed in whole or in part with bonds, grants, loans, or other funds made available by or through federal
or State government, or the County. "Public Works" does not include projects undertaken by the owner at
an owner-occupied single-family residence or at an owner-occupied unit of a multifamily residence.
"Public Works" includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly work performed on equipment
whether owned, leased, or rented.
Response means response to an RFQ.
Respondent. The term "Respondent" means a Person responding to an RFQ.
Responsible means a Person that has the capability in all respects to perform fully a Contract or to
provide the required supplies, equipment, goods or services to the County, and the integrity and reliability
that will assure good faith performance. Factors taken into consideration in determining whether a Person is
Responsible may include quality, financial capacity, past performance, experience, adequacy of staff,
equipment, and the ability to perform within the time frame required for the Procurement.
Responsive means a Bid, a Response or a Proposal is in compliance in all material respects with all the
terms, conditions and requirements set forth in the Bid Documents, RFP, RFQ, request for quotations or
other terms required for a Procurement, including, but not limited to, completion and timely submittal of all
required affidavits, statements, certifications, bid deposits, insurance, performance and payment bonds and
other County requirements.
RFP means a Request for Proposals issued pursuant to this Procurement Code.
RFQ means a Request for Qualifications issued to obtain the qualifications of interested parties.

Page 7 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Small Business means a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration,
pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121, as related to the nature of the work the
Person seeks to perform on Contracts. A Person is not an eligible small business enterprise in any calendar
fiscal year in which its gross receipts, averaged over the Person's previous five fiscal years, exceed the size
standards of 13 CFR Part 121.
Using Agency means the departments or agencies within Cook County government, including Elected
Officials.
Utilization Plan means a plan for utilization of VBE’s, SDVBE’s, and PCEs.
Wage. The term "Wage" means compensation due to an Employee by reason of employment,
including allowances for gratuities and for meals and lodging that are furnished by the Employer and
actually used by the Employee.
Sec. 34-122. Procurements and contracts.
All Procurements for or by any Using Agency of Cook County, regardless of the source of the funds
used to pay for such Procurement, shall be made by the CPO, and in accordance with this Procurement
Code and the procedures promulgated pursuant hereto. All Contracts shall be in a form determined by the
CPO. Contracts shall be approved and executed as set forth in the procedures promulgated pursuant to and
in this Procurement Code. Notwithstanding, the above provision or any other provision in this Procurement
Code, the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System ("System Board") shall have
the authority over Procurements and Contracts for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System as
provided in the ordinance establishing the CCHHS. The System Board shall adopt written rules, regulations
and procedures in accordance and consistent with this Procurement Code and provisions set forth herein.
Sec 34-123. No power to act for procurements or expenditures of $150,000.00 or more.
The CPO shall have the authority to approve Procurements, execute Contracts and execute Contract
amendments up to an amount less than $150,000.00 without Board approval; provided, however, that Board
approval shall be required for any Procurement of the same or similar supplies, goods, equipment or
services which would result in the aggregate amount of such Procurements from the same vendor by the
same Using Agency equaling or exceeding $150,000.00 in any fiscal year. Notwithstanding, the CPO shall
have the authority to execute Contract amendments on Contracts approved by the Board; provided,
however, that the total of such amendments does not increase the original amount of such Contract by more
than $150,000.00 during the term of the Contract. The "amount" of a Contract shall mean the maximum
amount payable under such Contract.
No Person has the power or authority to approve, authorize or execute a Procurement, a Contract,
Contract amendment or the expenditure of public money in the amount of $150,000.00 or more without
approval of the County Board, except in the following instances: the payment of public utility bills, the
payment of rent pursuant to the provisions of a lease previously approved by the County Board, payment of
insurance premiums, payment of any amount pursuant to the provisions of a Contract, the execution of
which was approved by the Board pursuant to this Section 34-123 above, or other Board-authorized
transactions. Any action in violation of this section shall be null and void.

Page 8 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-124. Chief Procurement Officer.
The President, with the consent of the Board, shall appoint a Chief Procurement Officer who shall
serve as the purchasing agent for Cook County and shall be responsible for making all Procurements for all
Using Agencies and for managing the County's Procurement Process in accordance with this Procurement
Code. Any individual so appointed shall have at least three years’ experience in an executive capacity in the
purchasing office of a private or public entity with procurements reasonably comparable in size and nature
to those of the County.
Sec. 34-125. Powers and duties of the Chief Procurement Officer.
The Chief Procurement Officer shall:
(a) Make all Procurements and conduct all activities related to the Procurement Process in accordance
with the Procurement Code and any procedures promulgated pursuant hereto;
(b) Establish and maintain procurement policies and procedures, and standardized documents and forms
to implement the Procurement Code;
(c) Cooperate with the Contracts Compliance Director to coordinate the procurement process with the
Minority- and Women-Owned Business Program established pursuant to Division 8 of this
Procurement Code;
(d) Develop and maintain procedures for disseminating information and notice of procurement
opportunities;
(e) Have authority to implement innovative procurement methods and processes pursuant to this
Procurement Code;
(f) Have authority to approve and execute an assignment of or an amendment to a Contract; provided that
any such amendment does not extend the Contract by more than one year, and further provided that the
total cost of all such amendments does not increase the amount of the Contract beyond the authority of
the CPO granted in Section 34-123;
(g) Have authority to establish the commencement and expiration dates of any Contract as necessary to
permit the Contract period to commence upon the date of Execution of the Contract by the County,
unless another commencement date is specified in the Contract;
(h) Within the CPO's authority, aApprove and execute Contracts within his or her authority, or as directed
by the Board;
(i)
(j)

Ensure that all certifications, statements and affidavits required by this Procurement Code are
submitted;
Determine when supplies, materials and equipment are obsolete or unusable, and trade in, sell or
dispose of such property, except for such property which is the responsibility of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System;

Page 9 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(k) Compile and maintain information for all Procurements, including those Procurements and Contract
amendments which do not require Board approval. The CPO shall submit a report to the Board on a
monthly basis listing the Procurements and Procurement amendments executed by the CPO that do not
require Board approval, including a list of each Person from whom the County makes such a
Procurement and the method of Procurement applied, as well as Procurements that authorize the
advance payment for services. Such reports shall include:
(1) The name of the Vendor;
(2) A brief description of the product or service provided;
(3) The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being
drawn; and
(4) The amount and term of the Procurement; and
(5) The amount and/or extension period of the amendment, if applicable.
Such report shall be provided to the Board of Commissioners in an electronic format.;
(l)

The CPO shall wWork with the Comptroller to provide a monthly report of the individual and total
aggregate amount disbursements made for Procurements that do not require Board approval. The
Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or
more, within two weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
(1) The name of the Vendor;
(2) A brief description of the product or service provided;
(3) The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being
drawn; and
(4) The contract number under which the payment is being made.
Such report shall be provided to the Board of Commissioners in an electronic format.;

(m) Make available on the County's website information related to all Procurements, including, but not
limited to, a list of Contracts and a list of Contractors and subcontractors;
(n) Keep a record of any Person who has been disqualified under Division 4, Disqualification; Penalties,
and shall provide such record to the Cook County Health and Hospitals System;
(o) Have authority to terminate a Contract in accordance with its terms;
(p) Issue notices of violation to enforce the provisions of this Code, as applicable, and institute
enforcement proceedings under Chapter 2, Article IX, as appropriate;
(q) Work with the Comptroller to assure that Contractors are not paid in advance of performance, unless
such advance payment is provided for and properly justified in the Contract; and

Page 10 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(r) Have charge of such other Procurement activities as may be assigned by the President or the Board.;
and
(s) Have the authority to require the CIO to review and approve all technology related Procurements,
Contracts or Contract amendments in advance of CPO and/or Board approval; notice of the CIO’s
approval or disapproval shall be provided by the CIO to the CPO and/or Board prior to approval in
order for the CPO and/or Board to make an informed decision on the requested technology related
Procurement, Contract or Contract amendment; technology related Procurements, Contracts or
Contract amendments include but are not limited to computer hardware, software, software and
hardware maintenance, software and hardware service costs, information technology services,
telecommunications services and telecommunications equipment Procurements, Contracts or Contract
amendments.
Secs. 34-126—34-134. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Sec. 34-135. Procurement methods.
All County Procurements shall be made pursuant to the appropriate procurement method set forth
below and described in the applicable Section.
Sec. 34-136. Competitive Bidding;
Sec. 34-137. Small Procurements;
Sec. 34-138. Requests for Qualifications or Proposals;
Sec. 34-139. Sole Source Procurements;
Sec. 34-140. Comparable Government Procurement;
Sec. 33-141. Emergency Procurements;
Sec. 34-142. Joint Procurements;
Sec. 34-143. Consortium and Group Procurements;
Sec. 34-144. Innovative Procurement;
Sec. 34-145. Responsible Bidder Process for Public Works Construction, Maintenance and Repair
Contracts.
Sec. 34-136. Competitive bidding.
Procurements of supplies, materials, equipment, and services shall be made by the competitive bidding
process as set forth in this section, unless such Procurements meet the criteria for another procurement
method set forth in this division. The CPO shall follow the procedures set forth below for competitive
bidding.
(a) Development and approval of Bid Documents. The Using Agency shall provide to the CPO all
information required by the CPO to prepare the Bid Documents, including minimum qualifications,
specifications and any special conditions.

Page 11 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) Bid Notice. Upon request by a Using Agency, the CPO shall publish a Bid Notice on the County's
website at least five days before the date for the submission of Bids.
(c) Pre-Bid conference or site inspection. The Bid Documents shall include details of any pre-Bid
conference or site inspection, including whether any such pre-Bid conference or site inspection is
mandatory. The CPO shall keep a record of all Persons who request Bid Documents. The CPO will
notify all Persons recorded as having requested Bid Documents of any changes with respect to such
conference or inspection no later than at least 24 hours prior to the original scheduled date and no less
than two business days prior to any newly scheduled date for such conference or inspection.
(d) Communications with the County regarding competitive bidding process. From the time the Bid
Notice is issued until the successful Bidder has been recommended to the Board by the CPO, all
communications to the County relating to the Bid must be directed in writing (which may be
electronic) only to the CPO, or as otherwise specified in the Bid Documents. Upon receipt of such a
request, the CPO will determine if a response will be provided. Any such response shall be provided in
an addendum to all Persons requesting the Bid Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
communications may be made to the Office of Contract Compliance in writing for the purpose of
complying with Division 8, Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Program.
(e) No changes to Bids. No Bid may be changed, amended or supplemented in any way after the date and
time for submission of Bids.
(f) Bid opening. All Bids shall be opened and a record of such Bids shall be made on the date, and at the
time and location as stated in the Bid Notice or as prescribed in an addendum issued by the CPO. All
Bids shall be opened, and the name of the Bidder and the Bid Price shall be read publicly. If it is
determined that an error was made in the public reading of the Bids, the CPO shall notify all Bidders of
such error and reconvene the Bid opening to correct the record as soon as reasonably possible. If the
Bids are submitted electronically, no public reading shall be required so long as a record of the Bids
opened is publicly available immediately after the Bids are opened.
(g) If only one Bid is received. If only one Bid has been submitted, the CPO will determine whether to
open the Bid or return the Bid to the Bidder via certified mail and reissue the Bid Notice or use a
different method to make the Procurement. If the Bid was submitted electronically, and is not opened,
it shall be deleted from the electronic procurement system.
(h) Evaluation of Bids. The CPO shall review, evaluate and tabulate Responsive Bids. In determining the
apparent low Bid, the CPO shall consider the Responsibility of the Bidder and all applicable
preferences and incentives provided in this Procurement Code. The CPO shall then direct the Bids
along with the tabulation to the Using Agency for review. Upon full review of the Bids and Bid
tabulations, the Using Agency shall notify the CPO in writing of its Procurement recommendation,
with justification supporting such recommendation. The CPO shall review the recommendation of the
Using Agency, and shall post on the County's website the CPO's recommended Bid for award.
(i)

Bid protest. Any Bidder who reasonably believes that the recommended Bidder is not the lowest
Responsive and Responsible Bidder, or has a complaint about the bid process, may submit a bid
protest, in writing, and directed to the CPO. For all Contracts requiring Board approval, any bid protest

Page 12 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

must be submitted no later than three business days after the date upon which the CPO posts the
recommended Bid for award. For all Contracts which can be executed by the CPO, any bid protest
must be submitted no later than three business days after the date upon which the CPO posts the
recommended Bid for execution. The bid protest must specify why the protester believes the
recommended Bidder is not the lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder, or why the protestor
believes the bid procedure was unfair, including a statement of how the alleged unfairness prejudiced
the protesting Bidder and the action requested of the CPO. A bid protest based on an issue which could
have been clarified through a request for clarification or information pursuant to Section 34-136(d),
Communications with the County regarding competitive bidding process, will not be considered if the
protesting Bidder failed to make such request. When a bid protest has been submitted, no further action
shall be taken on the Procurement until the CPO makes a decision concerning the bid protest, unless
the Using Agency responds in writing and sufficiently demonstrates that (i) the item to be procured is
urgently required and (ii) failure to make the award promptly will unduly delay delivery or
performance or cause other undue harm.
The CPO shall issue a written decision on the bid protest to the protesting Bidder and to any other
Bidder affected by such decision as soon as reasonably practicable. If the bid protest is upheld based
on a lack of fairness in the bid procedure, the CPO shall re-bid the procurement. If the CPO determines
that the recommended Bidder was not Responsive and Responsible, that Bidder shall be disqualified
and the CPO may either recommend the lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder or re-bid.
(j)

Board Action. Upon resolution of any bid protests, or expiration of the three-day protest period with no
protests, the CPO shall either execute the Contract if within his/her authority, or submit the Contract to
the Board, through its Finance Committee, for approval and authorization for the CPO to Execute the
Contract. Once the Contract has been approved by the Board, or executed by the CPO, the CPO shall
post on the CPO's website information regarding the Procurement.

(k) Right to reject Bids. The County shall have the right to reject any and all Bids. The CPO is authorized
to exercise this right on behalf of the Board. The CPO shall include a provision in the Bid Documents
reserving the right to reject any and all Bids.
(l)

Procurements Under $150,000.00. The competitive bidding process for procurements greater than
$5,000.00 and less than $150,000.00 may consist of a solicitation posted on the CPO's website. The
CPO shall promulgate policies and procedures to implement such Procurements. The CPO is not
required to read or announce such Bids publicly. The CPO shall select the lowest Responsive Bid
made by a Responsible Person, and shall post on the CPO's website information regarding the
Procurement.

Sec. 34-137. Small procurements.
Procurements of the same or similar supplies, goods, equipment or services by a Using Agency in an
aggregate amount from the same vendor of less than $5,000.00 in the same fiscal year do not require a
competitive method. The CPO shall promulgate policies and procedures to implement such Procurements.

Page 13 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-138. Requests for qualifications or proposals.
(a) Criteria for use of request for qualifications or proposals. The CPO in consultation with the Using
Agency may determine that it is in the best interest of the County to make a Procurement utilizing the
Request for Qualifications or Request for Proposals process. Examples of Procurements for which an
RFQ or RFP process is appropriate include, but are not limited to: Procurements involving services
requiring a high degree of professional skill where the ability or fitness of the Person plays an
important part; Procurements where the requirements are not clearly known; Procurements where
quality rather than quantity is a primary factor; and Procurements where it is not in the best interest of
the County to make price a primary determinative factor. An RFP process is a competitive process
under this Procurement Code, and a Person selected through an RFP process is not considered a "sole
source."
(b) Content of RFQs and RFPs. The CPO shall determine what provisions RFQs and RFPs should contain
in consultation with the requesting Using Agency and will incorporate the necessary details,
provisions and requirements for the RFQ or RFP. RFQs and RFPs shall include a provision stating that
the County may negotiate a Procurement with one or more Respondents or Proposers.
(c) Issuance. The CPO shall issue an RFQ or RFP after receiving a written request from the Using Agency
and approval from the Using Agency regarding the contents of the RFQ or RFP. Notice of all RFQs
and RFPs shall be posted on the CPO's website.
(d) Opening of Responses. The Responses or Proposals shall be opened in the presence of one or more
witnesses after the designated date and time for submission. A representative of the Using Agency may
be present at the opening but shall not be required to attend the opening. The names of the Respondents
or Proposers shall be available to the public after the Procurement has been completed.
(e) Evaluation and Selection for Contract Negotiation. The CPO in coordination with the Using Agency
shall develop evaluation criteria which are included in the RFQ or RFP. These criteria may include,
but are not limited to, experience and qualifications of the Respondent or Proposer, the quality, content
and completeness of the Response or Proposal, the demonstrated willingness and ability of the
Respondent or Proposer to satisfy the requirements as described in the RFQ or RFP, and, if applicable,
the cost proposal. The evaluation shall be performed by a committee chaired by the CPO or a designee
of the CPO with representatives of the Using Agency and other persons designated by the CPO.
Respondents or Proposers shall be accorded fair treatment with regard to evaluation of their Responses
or Proposals. Any or all Respondents or Proposers may be requested to make presentations and/or
submit clarifications or revisions to their Responses or Proposals for the purpose of obtaining best and
final Responses or Proposals. The Using Agency shall document the results of the evaluation. The
contents of the Responses or Proposals shall not be disclosed to competing Respondents or Proposers
during the evaluation process or any discussions.
(f) Contract negotiation, approval and Execution. The Using Agency may send its recommendation to
the CPO, setting forth the reasons for such recommendation, which shall be based upon the evaluation
criteria. Board approval is not required to negotiate a Contract. Negotiation of a Contract's terms shall
take place between the prospective Contractor(s) and representatives of the Purchasing Department
and the Using Agency. After a Contract is negotiated, the CPO shall either Execute the Contract, if

Page 14 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

within the CPO's authority, or forward the Contract to the Board for approval and authorization for the
CPO to execute the Contract. Such request shall include the justification for the Contract and the
selection of the Contractor.
(g) RFP or RFQ protest. Any interested party who has a complaint about the RFP or RFQ process may
submit a protest in writing and directed to the CPO. For all Contracts requiring Board approval, any
protest must be submitted no later than three business days after the date upon which the CPO posts the
recommended contract for award. For all Contracts which can be executed by the CPO, any protest
must be submitted no later than three business days after the date upon which the CPO posts the
recommended Contract for execution. The subject of the protest for any RFP or RFQ shall concern
fraud, corruption or illegal acts undermining the objectives and integrity of the procurement process.
Any RFP or RFQ protest must be submitted no later than three business days after the date upon which
the CPO posts the recommended Response or Proposal for award. The protest must contain a detailed
statement of the factual and legal grounds of the protest, including all relevant documents and exhibits
that demonstrate fraud, corruption or illegal acts having the effect of undermining the integrity of the
procurement process and the action requested of the CPO. A protest based on an issue which could
have been clarified through a request for clarification or information, will not be considered if the
protestor failed to make such request. When a protest has been submitted, no further action shall be
taken on the Procurement until the CPO makes a decision. The CPO shall issue a written decision on
the protest to the protestor and to any other Respondent or Proposer affected by such decision as soon
as reasonably practicable. If the protest is upheld, the CPO shall consult with the Using Agency, and
may exercise any of the following remedies: cancel the procurement; recommend commencing
contractual negotiations to the next qualified Respondent or Proposer, or re-issue the RFP or RFQ.
(h) Board or CPO related action. Upon resolution of any protests, or expiration of the three-day protest
period with no protests, the CPO shall either execute the contract if within his/her authority, or submit
the Contract to the Board, through its Finance Committee, for approval and authorization for the CPO
to Execute the Contract. Once the Contract has been approved by the Board or executed by the CPO,
the CPO shall post on the CPO's website information regarding the Procurement.
Sec. 34-139. Sole source procurements.
Procurements of supplies, equipment, goods or services may be made without use of one of the
competitive processes if there is either only one source or there is a need for the unique or specialized skill,
experience, or ability possessed by a particular source. The Using Agency must submit a letter to the CPO
justifying the sole source Procurement, and provide any other documents or information required by the
CPO.
Sec. 34-140. Comparable government procurement.
If a governmental agency has awarded a contract through a competitive method for the same or similar
supplies, equipment, goods or services as that sought by the County, the Procurement may be made from
that vendor at a price or rate at least as favorable as that obtained by that government agency without
utilizing a competitive procurement method set forth in this Procurement Code.

Page 15 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-141. Emergency procurements.
The CPO may make Procurements and execute Contracts without use of one of the competitive
processes set forth in this Procurement Code and without prior approval of the Board, when such
Procurements are necessary (i) due to a threat to public health or safety, (ii) for repairs to County property in
order to protect against further loss or damage, (iii) to prevent or minimize serious disruption in County
services, (iv) to ensure the integrity of County records, or (v) in the reasonable opinion of the CPO, for the
best interests of the County. If practicable under the circumstances, the CPO shall obtain quotations or
Proposals from at least three Persons. The CPO shall report the basis for the emergency Procurement and
reasons for the selection of the Contractor to the Finance Committee of the Board within five business days
of making an emergency Procurement.
Sec. 34-142. Joint procurements.
Procurements may be made pursuant to the Governmental Joint Purchasing Act, 30 ILCS 525.
Sec. 34-143. Consortium and group procurements.
Procurements may be made pursuant to the County's membership or participation in a purchasing
consortium, provided that the Board has approved such membership or participation, for, at least in part, the
purpose of obtaining advantageous pricing and other efficiencies for the County. Procurements made
through a purchasing consortium shall be approved and executed as set forth in this Procurement Code.
Sec. 34-144. Innovative procurement.
(a) The CPO may make a Procurement using innovative methods of procurement, including, but not
limited to, electronic procurement, reverse auctions, electronic bidding, electronic auctions,
prequalification and pilot procurement programs that have no cost to the County. In order to
implement innovative methods of procurement, either directly or through a service provider, the CPO
must make a determination that such process is competitive and in the best interest of the County.
(b) As an alternative or in addition to directly conducting procurement using innovative methods, the CPO
may make a Procurement of electronic procurement services for conducting reverse auctions,
electronic auctions, or provide an on-line or electronic forum for competitive Bids, Requests for
Qualifications and Requests for Proposals and other types of innovative methods of procurement on
the County's behalf. The Contract for such Procurement may contain such terms as the CPO deems
necessary, including, but not limited to, terms that specify the source and amount of the compensation.
With respect to Procurements made pursuant to this section, the CPO is authorized to charge a
reasonable service fee to the Contractors from which Procurements are made in order to cover part or
all of the County's costs associated with such electronic procurement, including the costs of engaging a
service provider. Such service fee shall be paid as directed by the CPO.
(c) The CPO shall have authority to adopt rules and regulations for the proper administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this section, including the authority to modify the requirements of this
Procurement Code as necessary to implement such innovative or electronic procurement method.

Page 16 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(d) Any document, affidavit, certification or form required by the Procurement Code or submitted in
connection with any Procurement may be accepted by the CPO in electronic format subject to
compliance with accepted means and methods of verification and authentication of electronic
signatures.
Sec. 34-145. Responsible bidder process for public works construction, maintenance and repair
contracts.
For purposes of evaluating whether a Bidder for a Public Works Contract is Responsible, the CPO
shall determine that the Bidder:
(a) Is authorized to do business in Illinois and the County;
(b) Has, as applicable, a Federal Employer Identification Number or Social Security Number;
(c) Meets any applicable insurance requirements in the Bid Document;
(d) Has certified that it is in compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, and State
and Federal equal employment opportunity laws;
(e) Has certified that it participates in active apprenticeship and training programs approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training for each
of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded Contract;
(f) Contractually requires any subcontractor to participate in active apprenticeship and training programs
approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and
Training for each of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded Contract; and
(g) Has agreed to provide Certified payrolls as specified in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act.
For purposes of this Section 34-145, the terms, "Public Works" and Construction" shall have the
meanings set forth in the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/2.
Sec. 34-146. Performance and Accountability in Professional Social Service Contracts and
Agreements.
All Professional Social Service Contracts and Professional Social Service Agreements entered into
must include within its terms or general conditions a requirement that the contractor or provider of such
social services submit an annual performance report to the Using Agency that includes, but is not limited to,
relevant statistics, an empirical analysis where applicable, and a written narrative describing the goals and
objectives of the contract or agreement and programmatic outcomes. The Chief Procurement Officer shall
be responsible for ensuring that this requirement is included in said Professional Social Service Contracts
and Professional Social Service Agreements. The annual performance report shall be provided and reported
to the Cook County Board of Commissioners by the applicable Using Agency within 45 days of receipt.
Failure of the contractor or provider to provide an annual performance report will be considered a breach of

Page 17 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

contract or agreement by the contractor or provider, and may result in termination of the contract or
agreement.
Secs. 34-147—34-159. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. WAGE REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 34-160. Living wage.
(a) Unless expressly waived by the Board, any Contract requiring the use of full-time non-County
Employees to provide services or labor under the Contract shall include a provision requiring that the
Contractor shall pay not less than the Living Wage to such Employees, unless such Employees' Wages
are governed by Federal or State law. The Contractor shall require all subcontractors to comply with
this section. This Section shall not apply to Contracts with not-for-profit organizations or Contracts
funded by Federal grants or loans.
(b) If a Contractor or any of its subcontractors is found to be in violation of this section, such Contractor be
required to pay back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be fined by the County up to
$100.00 for each affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such penalties
will not be imposed on any Person except after a hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article IX,
Administrative Hearings.
(c) If a Contractor or any of its subcontractors is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee,
the Contractor may be held to be in breach of the Contract and the Contract may be terminated unless
such Contractor or the subcontractor appropriately reinstates or compensates such Employee.
(d) The CPO shall require that any such Contractor certify that it will comply with this section.
(e) Pursuant to County Code Chapter 2, Article V, Division 3, Subdivision I, Section 2-408, the CFO shall
annually determine the Living Wage.
(f) The CPO shall post the current Living Wage on the CPO's website.
(g) Every Contractor and subcontractor required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the
Living Wage requirement and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the
Living Wage. In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee contends that
the Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this section, that Employee may
file a complaint with the Cook County Commission on Human Rights ("Commission"). If at the
conclusion of the Commission's investigation, the Commission finds that the Employer has violated
this section, it shall (1) in the case of an Employer receiving a property tax incentive, notify the
Assessor; or (2) in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to pay the Living Wage, notify
the CPO, who shall exercise such remedies as are in the best interest of the County, including ordering
the Employer to pay back pay and penalties, as provided in this section.

Page 18 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-161. Illinois prevailing wage.
(a) To the extent required by the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.) (the "Prevailing
Wage Act"), the general prevailing rate of Wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged in the construction of Public Works coming under the jurisdiction of this County
shall be the same as the prevailing rate of Wages for construction work in the Cook County area as
determined from time to time by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois. The definition of any
terms used in this section which are also used in the Prevailing Wage Act shall be the same as in said
Act.
(b) Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply the general prevailing rate of Wages to any work
or employment except Public Works of this County and only to the extent required by the Prevailing
Wage Act.
(c) The CPO shall include in the Bid Notice for any Public Works Contract, and shall include in the Bid
Documents, a requirement that not less than the prevailing rate of Wages as found by the County or the
Department of Labor or determined by the court on review shall be paid to all laborers, workers and
mechanics performing work under such Public Works Contract.
(d) Prior to awarding any Public Works Contract, the CPO shall ascertain whether the Bidder is debarred
pursuant to the Prevailing Wage Act.
Sec. 34-162. Federal prevailing wage.
If a Procurement will be paid for using federal funds, and if such federal funding requires compliance
with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-7), then the Contract shall contain provisions requiring
that the Contractor and any subcontractors shall pay the Federal Prevailing Wage.
Sec. 34-163. Prevailing wages for covered services.
(a) Not less than the prevailing rate of Wages shall be paid and prevailing working conditions shall be
provided to any laborer, worker and mechanic providing Covered Services under a Contract.
(b) In order to be considered a Responsive Bidder for any Contract for Covered Services, the Bidder shall
certify that Wages paid to its employees will be no less, and fringe benefits and working conditions of
such employees shall be no less favorable, than those prevailing in the locality in which the Covered
Services are to be performed, as determined by the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources and
posted on the website.
(c) The CPO of Cook County shall include in the Bid Notice for any Contract for Covered Services, and
shall include in the specifications for any such Contract a provision that (i) not less than the prevailing
rate of Wages shall be paid, and prevailing working conditions shall be provided, to all laborers,
workers and mechanics performing Covered Services and (ii) all bonds required under such Contract
shall include such provisions as will guarantee the faithful performance of such provision in the
Contract.

Page 19 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-164. Prompt payments to subcontractors for non-public works.
When a Contractor doing business with the County receives any payment from the County for any
goods, services, or equipment it has provided to the County pursuant to Contract, the Contractor must make
payment to its subcontractors within 15 days after receipt of payment from the County, provided that such
subcontractor has satisfactorily provided goods or services or completed its work or services in accordance
with the Contract and provided the Contractor with all of the documents and information required of the
Contractor. The Contractor may delay or postpone payment to a subcontractor when the subcontractor’s
work or materials do not comply with the requirements of the Contract, the Contractor is acting in good
faith, and not in retaliation for a subcontractor exercising legal or contractual rights.
Sec. 34-165. Prompt payments to subcontractors and material suppliers for public works.
When a Contractor doing business with the County receives any payment from the County pursuant to
a Public Works Contract, the Contractor shall pay each subcontractor and material supplier in proportion to
the work completed by each subcontractor and material supplier less any retention within 15 days after
receipt of payment from the County. If the Contractor receives less than the full payment due under the
Public Works Contract, the Contractor shall be obligated to disburse on a pro rata basis those funds received
with the Contractor, subcontractors and material suppliers, each receiving a prorated portion based on the
amount of funds received. When, however, the County does not release the full payment due under the
Contract because there are specific areas of work or materials the Contractor is rejecting or because the
Contractor has otherwise determined such areas are not suitable for payment, then those specific
subcontractors or suppliers involved shall not be paid for that portion of the work rejected or deemed not
suitable for payment and all other subcontractors and suppliers shall be paid on a pro rata basis from the
funds received, and shall receive full payment if funds are sufficient.
Secs. 34-1646—34-169. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. DISQUALIFICATION, AND PENALTIES
Sec. 34-170. Disqualification due to contract default or termination.
(a) If a Person has had a Contract terminated for cause by the County, or if a Person has failed to cure a
default within any cure period provided by the Contract, such Person shall be ineligible to enter into a
Contract with the County for a period of 24 months from the date of termination or notice of default.
(b) When a Contract has been terminated for cause or when an uncured default exists under a Contract, the
Contractor may submit a request to the CPO for a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period. The
request shall be in writing and shall include documentation that one or more of the following actions
have been taken:
(1) There has been a bona fide change in ownership or Control of the ineligible Person;
(2) Disciplinary action has been taken against the individual(s) responsible for the acts giving rise to
the termination or default; or

Page 20 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(3) Remedial action has been taken to prevent a recurrence of the acts giving rise to the termination or
default.
The CPO shall review the documentation, make any inquiries deemed necessary, and determines
whether a reduction or waiver is appropriate.
(c) A Using Agency may request an exception to such period of ineligibility, by submitting a written
request to the CPO, supported by facts that establish that it is in the best interests of the County that the
Procurement be made from such ineligible Person. The CPO shall review the documentation, make
any inquiries deemed necessary, and determineing whether the request should be approved. If an
exception is granted, such exception shall apply to that Procurement only and the period of ineligibility
shall continue for its full term as to any other Procurements.
Sec. 34-171. Disqualification for due to County tax or debt delinquency or obligation default.
(a) A Person that is (i) delinquent in the payment of any tax (including real estate tax) or fees administered
by the County,; (ii) delinquent in the payment of any debt to the County,; (iii); is in default of any
obligation to the County; or (iv) is a "predatory lender," as determined pursuant to the Cook County
Predatory Lending Ordinance, shall be ineligible to enter into a Contract with the County.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Person shall not be ineligible, nor shall the County exercise any
rights to set-off or other remedies set forth in this DivisionSection 34-196 against a Person, if such
Person is contesting liability for the delinquency in a pending administrative or judicial proceeding, or
contesting the existence of a default, and shows proof of the contest; or if such Person has entered into
an agreement for the payment of such delinquency and verifies compliance with the agreement.
(b) The CPO shall obtain a written certification from every Person from whom the County seeks to make
a Procurement that such Person meets the requirements of Subsection (a).
(c) The County shall not be prohibited from making a Procurement from, and shall not exercise rights to
set-off or other remedies set forth in this DivisionSection 34-196 against a Person who is contesting
liability for the delinquency, in a pending administrative or judicial proceeding, or contesting the
existence of a default, and shows proof of the contest; from a Person who has entered into an
agreement for the payment of such delinquency and verifies compliance with the agreement.
(d) A Using Agency may request an exception to such ineligibility by submitting a written request to the
CPO, supported by facts that establish that it is in the best interests of the County that the Procurement
be made from such ineligible Person. The CPO shall review the documentation, make any inquiries
deemed necessary, and determine whether the request should be approved.
Sec. 34-172. Disqualification for due to noncompliance with child support orders.
(a) A Person shall be ineligible to enter into a Contract with the County if such Person or a Substantial
Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367) of the County’s Code) is
delinquent in the payment of a Court-Ordered Child Support Arrearage.

Page 21 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) The CPO shall obtain an affidavit from every Person from whom the County seeks to make a
Procurement that such Person meets the requirements of Subsection (a).
(b)(c) If the County becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner becomes delinquent in payments
under a Court-Ordered Child Support Arrearage after the County has entered into a Contract with such
Person or Substantial Owner, then, after notice from the County of such noncompliance and a 30-day
opportunity to pay such delinquency, such delinquency of such Person or Substantial Owner shall
constitute a default under the Contract. Such Person or Substantial Owner shall provide sufficient
evidence to the CPO of payment of such delinquency.
Sec. 34-173. Disqualification for illegal activity.
(a) Disqualifying Acts. A Person who has been convicted of, entered a plea of nolo contendere as to, or
made an admission of guilt, pursuant to the laws of any Federal, State or local jurisdiction, for any of
the following, shall be ineligible to enter into a Contract for a period of five years from the date of
conviction, entry of a plea or admission of guilt:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

Bribing or attempting to bribe;
Bid-rigging, attempting to rig bids;
Price fixing or attempting to fix prices; or
Defrauding or attempting to defraud.

(b) Disqualification due to acts of owner, partner or shareholder. A Person shall be ineligible to enter into
a Contract if an individual who Controls such Person would be disqualified under any provision of this
section 34-173.
Sec. 34-174. Disqualification for willful violation of Cook County Independent Inspector General
Ordinance.
A Person found to have willfully failed to cooperate in an investigation by the Cook County
Independent Inspector General or to report to the Independent Inspector General any and all information
concerning conduct which they know to involve corruption, or other criminal activity, by another County
employee or official, which concerns his or her office of employment or County related transaction in
accordance with Part I, Chapter 2, Article IV, Division 5, Section 2-285 of the County's Code shall be
subject to disqualification as provided in Part I, Chapter 2, Article IV, Division 5, Section 2-291 of the
County’s Code.
Sec. 34-175. Penalty for false statements.
Any Person determined by the CPO to have who knowingly makesmade a false statement of material
fact to Cook County in writing in connection with any aspect of a Procurement is liable to the County for a
penalty of $2,500.00, and may be subject to termination of any Contract and disqualification for a period of
up to five years from the date of such finding, in addition to any other remedy provided for in the
Procurement Code or at law or in equity, including termination of any Contract or disqualification. Any
person determined by the CCD to have made a false statement of material fact to Cook County in writing
regarding the status or contractual participation of a MBE, WBE, VBE or SDVBE is liable to the County for

Page 22 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

a penalty of $2,500.00, and may be subject to termination of any Contract and disqualification for a period
of up to five years from the date of such finding in addition to any other remedy provided for in the
Procurement Code or at law or in equity. No fine will be imposed on any Person except after any applicable
proceeding pursuant to Chapter 2, Article IX, Administrative Hearings.
Sec. 34-176. Penalty for failure to meet commitments.
In the event that the CCD determines that a Person failed to fulfill in good faith a project specific goal,
including but not limited to MBE, WBE, VBE, or SDVBE participation commitments reflected in a
Utilization Plan, as may be amended through change orders or otherwise over the term of the Contract, the
CPO may declare said Person to be in material breach of the Contract, and may withhold payments under
the Contract, and recover contractual penalties, in addition to disqualification and any other remedy
provided for in the Procurement Code at law or in equity. A contractual penalty for failure to meet MBE,
WBE, VBE, or SDVBE participation commitments pursuant to this Section shall be in the amount of the
discrepancy between actual MBE, WBE, VBE, or SDVBE participation, and the goal set forth in the
Utilization Plan, as may be amended through change orders or otherwise over the term of the Contract.
Sec. 34-176. Sec. 34-177. Penalties for failure to pay Cook County taxes and fees.
The CPO shall include in every Contract a provision that entitles the County to set off and subtract
from the Contract price a sum equal to any fines and penalties, including interest, for each tax or fee
delinquency and any debt or obligation owed by the Contractor to the County.
Sec. 34-177Sec. 34-178. Uniform penalties, interest and procedures.
Violations of this Article and the assessment of any fine pursuant to this Article shall be adjudicated
pursuant to Part I, Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code. The
determination as to whether a Person is disqualified under any provision of this Division 4 or has made a
false statement, shall be subject to said Person’s petition for review in a proceeding made pursuant to Part I,
Chapter 2, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, and the Administrative Rules promulgated thereunder.
Secs. 34-178179—34-189. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES AND POLICIES FOR CERTAIN
PROCUREMENTS
Sec. 34-190. Percentage of work of public works projects to be performed by county residents.
For any Public Works Contract having an estimated contract price of $100,000.00 or more, where not
otherwise prohibited by Federal or State law, at least 50 percent of the total hours worked on the site by
employees of the Contractor and subcontractors shall be performed by residents of the County.
Sec. 34-191. Green construction.
For all competitive Bids for Public Works Contracts budgeted for $2,000,000.00 or more, the Bid
Documents shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 30, Environment, Article IX, Green

Page 23 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Construction, Section 30-952, Emission Reduction, and any Contract resulting therefrom shall include all
provisions required by Chapter 30, Article IX, Section 30-955.
Sec. 34-192. Predatory lenders.
With each Bid or Response submitted by a financial institution for any Contract, the following
certification shall be signed by the chairman of the board, chief executive officer, or other officer of the
financial institution acceptable to the Chief Financial Officer.
We pledge that we are not and will not become a predatory lender as defined in Cook County's
Predatory Lending Ordinance. We further pledge that none of our affiliates is, and none of them will
become, a predatory lender as defined in this Ordinance. We understand that becoming a predatory lender
or becoming an affiliate of a predatory lender may result in the loss of the privilege of doing business with
the County.
Sec. 34-193. Contracts for consulting and auditing services.
(a) The County will not enter into any Contract for Auditing Services, nor shall it consent to a subcontract
for such Auditing Services, with any Person, if such Person, or any Affiliate of such Person, has a
Contract or subcontract for consulting services for or with the County. Additionally, the County will
not enter into any Contract for Consulting Services, nor shall it consent to a subcontract for such
Consulting Services, with any Person, if such Person, or any Affiliate of such Person, has a Contract or
subcontract for Auditing Services for or with the County. For purposes of this provision, "County"
shall refer only to offices which are administered by the President of the County Board and shall not
refer to offices which are administered by Elected Officials.
(b) The County shall not enter into any Contract for Consulting Services on behalf of an Elected Official,
nor shall it consent to a subcontract for such Consulting Services on behalf of an Elected Official, with
any Person, if such Person, or any Affiliate of such Person, has a Contract or subcontract to provide
Auditing Services for the Elected Official.
(c) The CPO shall require the Contractor in each Contract for Auditing or Consulting Services for the
County (as defined in this section) to provide a certification acceptable to the CPO that neither the
Contractor nor any Affiliate of the Contractor has a Contract or a subcontract to provide Consulting or
Auditing Services for the County which is prohibited under Subsection (a) of this section. In addition,
the CPO shall require the Contractor in each Contract to provide Consulting Services for an Elected
Official to provide a certification acceptable to the CPO that neither the Contractor nor any Affiliate of
the Contractor has a Contract or a subcontract to provide Auditing Services for the Elected Official
which is prohibited under Subsection (b) of this section.
Secs. 34-194—34-199. Reserved.
Subdivision I. Selection of Professional Services for Debt Transactions and Management of Bond
Proceeds; Continued Participation of MBEs, WBEs, VBEs, and SDVBEs.

Page 24 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-200. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subdivision shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Broker-Dealer means a financial services Person who is registered as a broker-dealer with and in good
standing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the State of Illinois.
Co-managers means underwriting firms responsible for participating in the underwriting and the
marketing of bonds issued by the County.
Financial advisor means a Person registered and in good standing as a municipal advisor with the
United States Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission.
Investment Bank means a Person responsible for participating in the underwriting and the marketing of
bonds issued by the County or in the remarketing of short-term securities on behalf of the County.
Senior managers means underwriting firms responsible for assisting with the development of the
financial plan and managing the underwriting and the marketing of the bonds.
Sec. 34-201. Competitive process for legal counsel and finance teams for debt transactions.
(a) The Chief Financial Officer or may request that the CPO, on request of the Chief Financial Officer,
may issue an RFQ at least once every three years for selection of legal counsel and finance professionals
required for debt transactions, including but not limited to bond counsel, pension disclosure counsel, and
underwriters counsel; investment banks,; and financial advisors.
(b) The RFQ for legal counsel shall request at least the following information:
(1) Ddescriptive information about the laweach firm, including the experience of the attorneys within
the law firm having expertise in the areas of municipal finance law and or Federaltax lawpertaining
to tax exempt bonds;
(2) Tthe manner in and degree to which the law firm operates or is otherwise present in the County or
State;
(3) Whether and by whom the law firm is certified as a MBE, WBE, VBE or SDVBE;
(4) Tthe manner in and degree to which the law firm is owned by minority, or femalewoman, or veteran
attorneys;
(5) Tthe manner in and degree to which the law firm employs minority, or femalewoman, or veteran
attorneys and promotes or incubates the participation of minority, or femalewoman, or veteran
attorneys in public finance initiatives;

Page 25 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(6) Tthe law firm's written policies regarding sexual harassment; and
(7) oOther special areas of expertise or strength.
A “qualified” list shall be developed by the Chief Financial Officer for each type of financing.
(c) The RFQ for investment banks underwriters and other professionals shall request at least the following
information, as applicable:
(1) Experience and expertise in structuring and marketing bonds and notes, detailing experience with
various types of issuances, including general obligation bonds, revenue bonds, variable rate
demand bonds, commercial paper, and tax anticipation notes, and other debt instruments being
contemplated by the County, andincluding examples of similar financings on which the
firminvestment bank has been senior manager or co-manager.;
(2) Financial strength of the firminvestment bank, particularly its capital allocated to underwriting
governmentalmunicipal bonds.;
(3) Degree of corporate investment or "presence" in the County and State, including the location of
corporate offices, brokerage offices, or back-office operations.;
(4) The number and qualifications of personnel associated with efforts to sell municipal bonds, and the
regular trading inventory of the investment bank with respect to municipal bonds;
(5) Whether and by whom the investment bank is certified as a MBE, WBE, VBE or SDVBE;
(6)(4) The manner in and degree to which the firminvestment bank is owned by minorities, or
femaleswomen, or veterans;
(7) The manner and degree to which the firminvestment bank employs minority, or femalewoman, or
veteran finance professionals;
(8) Tthe manner in and degree to which the firminvestment bank promotes or incubates the
participation of minority or femalewoman, or veteran finance professionals in public finance
initiatives; and
(9) Tthe firminvestment bank's written policies regarding sexual harassment; and
(105) Other special areas of expertise or strength.
(d) The RFQ for financial advisors shall request at least the following information, as applicable:
(1) Experience and expertise in structuring bonds and notes, detailing experience with various types of
issuances, including general obligation bonds, revenue bonds, variable rate demand bonds,
commercial paper, tax anticipation notes, and other debt transactions being contemplated by the
County, including examples of similar financing initiatives as financial advisor.

Page 26 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(2) Degree of corporate investment or presence in the County, including the location of corporate
offices;
(3) Whether and by whom the financial advisor is certified as a MBE, WBE, VBE or SDBVE;
(4) The manner in and degree to which the financial advisor is owned by minorities, women, or
veterans;
(5) The manner in and degree to which the financial advisor employs minority, woman, or veteran
finance professionals and promotes or incubates the participation of minority, woman, or veteran
professionals in public finance initiatives;
(6) The financial advisor’s written policies regarding sexual harassment; and
(7) Other specialized areas of expertise or strength.
(e) A "qualified" list of law firms, investment banks, underwriters and financial advisors and other
professionals shall be developed by the Chief Financial Officer for each type of financing, applicable to a
term of no more than three years per each RFQ.
Sec. 34-202. Selection.
(a) For each debt transaction or for multiple debt transactions the Chief Financial Officer shall select three
or more firms from the qualified list for each of the following, as required for the transaction: bond counsel,
co-bond counsel, underwriter and co-underwritercounsel, special tax counsel, pension-disclosure counsel,
senior manager and co-managerand financial advisor. The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of
the firms under consideration submit a Proposal which shall include at least the following, as applicable:
experience with the particular type of financing; a recommended strategy for identifying and targeting
Procurers of the bonds experience with tax issues; knowledge of the County; the key personnel to be
assigned for the engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees for the
engagement; and the manner in and degree to which female and minority professionals will provide
services in connection with the transaction.
(b) The Chief Financial Officer shall recommend to the President the selection of counsel, professionals and
underwriters based upon the Proposals. In making the recommendation the Chief Financial Officer shall
consider a rotation to give each firm a fair opportunity to participate in County bond sales. The selection
shall be made by the President upon the recommendation of the Chief Financial Officer, and shall be
submitted to the County Board for approval. The President shall report to the County Board the reasons for
selection of the firm assigned the work. The Proposals shall be available for review by members of the
County Board. The President shall report to the County Board the reasons for making the selections. The
Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the law firms under consideration to provide legal services
submit a Proposal which shall include at least the following: experience with the relevant type of financing;
knowledge of the County; the key personnel to be assigned for the engagement, including their
qualifications and experience; the proposed fees or fee structure for the engagement; the firm’s capacity for,
experience in, and commitment to providing continuing legal advice and support in such areas as
compliance and taxation; and the manner and degree to which the firm will use an engagement on the

Page 27 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

contemplated financing initiative to promote or incubate the participation of minorities, women, and
veterans as finance professionals, on the potential engagement.
(c) _The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the firms under consideration for investment
banking services submit a Proposal which shall include at least the following: experience with the particular
type of financing; a recommended strategy for identifying and targeting investors in the bonds or notes;
knowledge of the County; the key personnel to be assigned for the engagement, including their
qualifications and experience; the proposed fees or fee structure for the engagement; and the manner in and
degree to which the firm will use an engagement on the contemplated financing initiative to promote or
incubate the participation of minorities and women as finance professionals on any potential engagement.
(d) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the financial advisors under consideration provide
financial-advisory services submit a Proposal which shall include at least the following: experience with
the particular type of financing; knowledge of the County; the key personnel to be assigned for the
engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees for the engagement; the firm’s
capacity for, experience in, and commitment to providing advice and support in such areas as pricing and
marketing of municipal bonds; and the manner in and degree to which the firm will use an engagement on
the contemplated financing to promote or incubate the participation of minorities, women, and veterans as
finance professionals, on the potential engagement.
(e) To redress the historical under-representation of minority and woman-owned firms in the financial
services arena, in the selection of law firms, investment banks, and financial advisors associated with bond
issuances, it shall be the continued goal of the County that (1) no less than 35 percent of the cumulative
remunerated portion of legal services and financial-advisory services associated with a financing initiative
shall be provided by law firms that are certified as MBEs or WBEs under Cook County’s Minority- and
Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance and financial-advisor firms that are at least 51 percent
owned, controlled, and managed by one or more persons who are either a minority or a woman and that
consistently maintain and staff a functional commercial presence and office in the County; and (2) 35
percent of the cumulative underwriting liability in a financing initiative shall be undertaken by investment
banks that consistently maintain and staff a functional commercial presence and office in the County and
are at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by minority individuals or women.
(f) The Chief Financial Officer shall recommend to the President the selection of legal counsel, investment
banks, financial advisors, and other professionals based upon the proposals provided per this subdivision.
In making the recommendation, the Chief Financial Officer shall consider methodsa rotation to give
eachmultiple firms a fair opportunity to compete for and participate in County bond sales. The selection
shall be made by the President upon the recommendation of the Chief Financial Officer, and shall be
submitted to the County Board for approval. The Chief Financial Officer shall report to the County Board a
summary of the rationale of any proposed financing initiative; the financial benefits of a proposed financing
approach with regards to the County’s long-term fiscal health; a summary of the financing team proposed to
work on the financing initiative; an identification of any firms that are certified as MBEs or WBEs or 51
percent owned, controlled, and managed by minority individuals or women; the total estimated
participation of such firms as a percentage of professional services (comprised of legal and financial
advisory services) and as a percentage of underwriting liability; and, on financing initiatives where
circumstances are such that the 35 percent goals set forth in Subsection (e) cannot be prudently reached, an

Page 28 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

explanation of such circumstances. The Proposals by firms selected to work on a financing initiative shall
be available for review by members of the County Board.
Sec. 34-203. Specific bond underwriter requirements.
Each Contract between the County and any bond underwriters shall include the following:
(1) The underwriter shall use its best efforts to assure that the County meets its objectives in the fair and
reasonable allocation of bond selling commissions to members of the underwriting syndicate, particularly
to Cook County and minority- and women-owned firms;
(2) The underwriter shall report the allocation of bond selling commissions and fees received by each
member of the underwriting syndicate to the Chief Financial Officer within 30 days of closing of the bond
issue; and
(3) The underwriter shall comply with all limitations or disclosure requirements concerning political
contributions that are or may be imposed by the Municipal Securities Regulatory Board or the Securities
and Exchange Commission. Failure by the underwriter to comply with this provision shall not void the sale,
but the underwriter may be subject to disqualification as set forth in Division 54.
Sec. 34-204. Continued Management of Bond Proceeds.
(a) When permissible and practicable under related bond ordinances, debt instruments, and debt agreements,
the Chief Financial Officer shall maintain investment of bond proceeds in accord with (1) the County
Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance; (2) the Illinois Public Funds Investment Act; or (3) such policies
as are promulgated by the Chief Financial Officer, following submission to the County Board.
(b) In selecting financial institutions to serve as broker-dealers in acquiring investments of bond proceeds
under this Section, the Chief Financial Officer shall, for each contemplated investment, elicit proposals
from at least three broker-dealers deemed qualified under policies and procedures promulgated by the Chief
Financial Officer, the State of Illinois, or the City of Chicago.
(c) In the selection of broker-dealers under this Section, it shall be the continued goal of the County that no
less than 35 percent of the cumulative value of the proposed investment purchased in a given fiscal year
shall be consummated by one or more broker-dealers that consistently maintain and staff a functional
commercial presence and office in the County and are at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed
by minority individuals or women.
Secs. 34-2054—34-214. Reserved.
Subdivision II. Recycled Products
Sec. 34-215. Purpose.
This subdivision shall be known as the "Cook County Recycled Product Procurement Policy."

Page 29 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Its purpose is to promote market development of recycled products, recyclable products, and
equipment capable of using such materials by establishing preferential purchasing programs applicable to
all Using Agencies and Contractors, thereby diverting materials from the solid waste stream.
Sec. 34-216. Policies.
(a) All Using Agencies shall whenever practicable use recycled products, recyclable products and
reusable products to meet their demands.
(b) Using Agencies and the CPO shall, whenever practicable, specify in the Contract Documents the use
of recycled products and recyclable products.
(c) In procuring designated products pursuant to this division, the CPO shall require recovered material
and/or post-consumer material content to be factors in determining the lowest Responsive Bid in any
competitive bidding procurement process.
Sec. 34-217. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subdivision shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Chlorine-free paper or paper products means recycled paper in which the virgin content is unbleached
or bleached without chlorine or chlorine derivatives, or virgin paper which is unbleached or processed with
a sequence that includes no chlorine or chlorine derivatives.
Designated products means all products that have been or may be identified pursuant to Section
34-218 as products that can be procured with significant levels of recovered materials.
Minimum content standards means standards set by the County Board, or in its absence, standards or
guidelines currently promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, specifying the
minimum level of recovered materials and/or post-consumer material necessary for designated products to
qualify as recycled products.
Paper and paper products means all items manufactured from paper or paperboard.
Post-consumer material means only those products generated by a business or consumer which have
served their intended end uses, and which have been separated or diverted from the solid waste stream for
the purposes of collection, recycling, and disposition.
Post-consumer paper material means paper, paperboard, and fibrous waste including corrugated
boxes, newspapers, magazines, mixed waste paper, tabulating cards and used cordage after the point at
which they have passed through their end use as consumer items.
Practicable means:
(1) Able to perform in accordance with applicable specifications;

Page 30 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(2) Offered as the low Bid under the procedures in Section 34-219(b), herein;
(3) Available within a reasonable period of time; and
(4) Maintaining a satisfactory level of competition.
Recovered material means material and byproducts which have been recovered or diverted from solid
waste, but does not include those materials and byproducts generated from, and commonly reused within,
an original manufacturing process (such as mill broke or home scrap).
Recovered paper material means paper waste generated after the completion of a paper making
process, such as post-consumer material, envelope cuttings, bindery trimmings, printing waste, cutting and
other converting waste, butt rolls, and mill wrappers, obsolete inventories, and rejected unused stock.
Recovered paper material, however, shall not include fibrous waste generated during the manufacturing
process such as fibers recovered from waste water or trimmings of paper machine rolls (mill broke), or
fibrous byproducts of harvesting, extractive or woodcutting processes, or forest residue such as bark.
Recyclable means that the product is technically capable of being recycled, and that economic markets
for collecting and recycling the product exist within a reasonable distance, including steel and plastic.
Recycle or recycling means any process by which materials that would otherwise become municipal
waste are collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic mainstream in the form of new,
reused or reconstituted products, but does not include the recovery of materials for fuel in combustion or
energy production processes. For lubricating oil, the term recycling is to be synonymous with re-refining.
For toner cartridges, the term recycling is to be synonymous with re-manufacture.
Recycled designated product means a product designated in or pursuant to Section 34-218 that meets
or surpasses the County's minimum content standards, and all other criteria for qualification as specified in
this division.
Reusable product means a product that can be used several times for an intended end use before being
discarded, such as a washable food or beverage container or a refillable ball point pen.
Sec. 34-218. Designated products and recycled designated products.
For all purposes of this subdivision, the products listed in this section or added pursuant to it are
designated as products that can be readily procured with significant levels of recovered materials.
Designated products shall qualify as recycled designated products if they meet minimum content standards
established in this subdivision. Designated products shall include:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)

Paper and paper products.
Compost products.
Horticultural mulch made with recycled land clearing and other wood debris.
Construction aggregates made with recycled cement concrete, tire rubber, glass or asphalt.
Cement and asphalt concrete containing glass cullet, recycled fiber or plastic, or tire rubber.
Antifreeze.
Recycled plastic products, including lumber shapes, refuse carts, traffic cones, insulation,
receptacle liners and recycling bins, traffic barriers and office products.

Page 31 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(8) Retreaded tires and products made from recycled tire rubber, including rubber mats and playfield
surfaces.
(9) Toner cartridges for computer printers.
(10) Lubricating oil and hydraulic oil with re-refined oil content.
(11) Insulation products.
(12) Paint.
(13) Wood products containing 50 percent or more reused or deconstructed wood.
(14) Carpeting made from recycled fibers.
(15) Office furniture.
(16) All steel products.
(17) Other products as designated by the CPO.
Sec. 34-219. Requirements for procurements.
(a) Bid Notices and requests for Quotations for the procurement of tangible supplies, equipment, or goods
shall contain no terms, requirements or specifications prohibiting or discouraging post-consumer or
recovered material content, unless a Using Agency provides the CPO with satisfactory evidence that,
for technical reasons and for a particular end use, a product containing such materials will not meet
reasonable performance standards.
(b) In determining the lowest Responsive and Responsible Bid for the Procurement of designated
products, the CPO shall use the procedures and evaluation criteria specified in this subdivision. If the
lowest price offered for a recycled designated product is not more than the specified percentage higher
than the lowest offered price for that same designated product that is not recycled, the offered price for
the recycled designated product shall be considered the low Bid if such Bidder is otherwise
Responsive and Responsible. The specified percentage will not be less than ten percent. However,
nothing contained in this division shall preclude Using Agencies from requiring post-consumer or
recovered material content as a bid specification.
(c) Each Contractor supplying the County with recycled designated products shall provide acceptable
certification from all product manufacturers that the products being supplied meet or surpass County
minimum content standards, and shall agree to reasonable verification procedures specified by the
CPO.
(d) Bid Notices for designated products, whether recycled or not, shall require the successful Bidder to
provide quarterly summaries of the quantities Procured by Using Agencies, unless the CPO determines
that this requirement would significantly reduce the number of Bids received by Cook County.
(e) The County shall not Procure any item whose original manufacturer places restrictions on the
remanufacturing of such item by other businesses.
Sec. 34-220. Procurement of paper and printing services.
(a) The County recycled paper procurement goal for Using Agencies (expressed as percentage of the total
volume of paper Procured) shall be 60 percent. Each department shall be responsible for making its
best effort to meet or surpass these goals.

Page 32 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) All paper Procured by the County shall be recycled paper, and all printed materials Procured by the
County shall be on recycled paper, containing at least 30 percent post-consumer content, unless use of
such recycled paper is not practicable. For all other paper products, the CPO shall adopt minimum
content standards for recycled paper products which shall, at minimum, be consistent with standards
presently promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(c) Printing services provided by the County or Procured by the County from an outside vendor shall
utilize soy or other vegetable-based inks. If lithographic ink is used in printing performed by the
County or in printing services Procured by the County from an outside vendor, the ink shall contain not
less than the following percentages of vegetable oil:
(1) News ink, 40 percent;
(2) Sheet-fed and forms ink, 20 percent;
(3) Heat-set ink, ten percent.
High quality color process printing on high speed heat-set presses is excepted when slow drying time
significantly increases production costs.
(d) Departments shall publicize the County's use of recycled paper by printing the words "Printed on
Recycled Paper" on all letterhead paper and on the title page of all reports printed on recycled paper.
(e) To reduce the volume of paper Procured, departments shall use both sides of paper sheets whenever
practicable. If possible, copies shall be made by photo-copying from one computer-generated original,
such that two-sided copies can be produced, rather than printing multiple one-sided originals.
(f) The CPO may enter into joint purchasing with other local and State agencies to reduce the cost of
recycled paper product Procurements.
(g) All Bids for new equipment and services shall include language that will encourage the use of recycled
paper and paper products, wherever practicable.
(h) Contracts shall contain provisions requiring all reports submitted by the Contractor shall use recycled
paper, except where the specialized nature of certain materials (such as photographs) requires
otherwise, and shall be printed two-sided unless two-sided printing is not practicable.
Sec. 34-221. Responsibilities and reporting requirements CPO.
The CPO is responsible for:
(1) Revising or amending standard Bid Documents and contract language where necessary to
implement this division.
(2) Working with Using Agencies and the Department of Environmental Control, adopt and update
minimum content standards or other specifications for designated recycled products.

Page 33 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-222. Exemptions.
Nothing in this division shall be construed as requiring a department or contractor to procure products
that do not perform adequately for their intended end use or are not available at a reasonable price in a
reasonable period of time.
Secs. 34-223—34-2289. Reserved.
DIVISION 6. BID INCENTIVES AND PREFERENCES
Sec. 34-229. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Division shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Terms not defined in
this section are defined in Division I of this Procurement Code, or in Section 1-3 of the County Code.:
Armed forces of the United States means the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,
Coast Guard, or service in active duty as defined under 38 U.S.C. Section 101. Service in the Merchant
Marine that constitutes active duty under Section 401 of federal Public Act 95-202 shall also be considered
service in the armed forces for purposes of this division.
Committee means Cook County Re-entry Employment Committee.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying Contract
through which the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders.
Eligible Veteran means a person who (i) has been either a member of the armed forces of the United
States or, while a citizen of the United States, was a member of the armed forces of allies of the United
States in time of hostilities with a foreign country and (ii) has served under one or more of the following
conditions: (a) the veteran served a total of at least 6 months; (b) the veteran served for the duration of
hostilities regardless of the length of the engagement; (c) the veteran was discharged on the basis of
hardship; or (d) the veteran was released from active duty because of a service connected disability and was
discharged under honorable conditions.
Former Offenders means adults who are residents of the County and who have been convicted of a
crime.
Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly Wage who are directly employed at
the work site. "Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and all
subcontractors working at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking
foremen, superintendents, owners and workers who are not subject to prevailing Wage requirements.
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price in excess of $100,000.00, for
which the Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.

Page 34 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Service-connected disability means a disability incurred in the line of duty in the active military, naval,
or air service as described in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).
Service-Disabled Veteran means an Eligible Veteran who has been found to have 10 percent or more
service-connected disability by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the United States
Department of Defense.
Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (SDVBE) means a small business (i) that is at
least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified service-disabled veterans or, in
the case of a corporation, at least 51 percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and
managed by one or more Service Disabled Veterans; (ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by
the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated by the CCD.
Time of hostilities with a foreign country means any period of time in the past, present, or future during
which a declaration of war by the United States Congress has been or is in effect or during which an
emergency condition has been or is in effect that is recognized by the issuance of a Presidential
proclamation or a Presidential executive order and in which the armed forces expeditionary medal or other
campaign service medals are awarded according to Presidential executive order.
Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (VBE) means a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent owned,
controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans or, in the case of a corporation, at least 51
percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans;
(ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated
by the CCD.
Sec. 34-230. Local business preference; all contracts.
The CPO shall recommend award of the Procurement to the lowest Responsible and Responsive
Bidder which is a Local Business, so long as the Bid of such Bidder does not exceed the Bid of the lowest
Responsive and Responsible Bidder by more than five percent.
Sec. 34-231. Re-entry employment bid incentive; public works contracts only.
There is hereby established the Cook County Re-entry Employment Bid Incentive Ordinance, with the
goal of working in conjunction with the Cook County Re-entry Employment Project to assist adults who are
residents of the County and who are former offenders, in finding employment opportunities. This
Ordinance is intended to increase public safety and reduce recidivism. For all Public Works Contracts with
an estimated Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more, advertised after the effective date of this Ordinance, the
CPO shall include the Bid Incentive provision in all such advertisements.

Page 35 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-232. Definitions.
For purposes of this division only, the following definitions apply:
Committee means Cook County Re-entry Employment Committee.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying Contract
through which the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders.
Former Offenders means adults who are residents of the County and who have been convicted of a crime.
Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly Wage who are directly employed at the
work site. "Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and all
subcontractors working at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking
foremen, superintendents, owners and workers who are not subject to prevailing Wage requirements.
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price in excess of $100,000.00, for
which the Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.
Sec. 34-2332. Re-entry employment committee.
(a) The President shall appoint the members of the Committee which will consist of:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

A representative of the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources;
A representative of the Justice Advisory Council; President’s Office of Employment Training;
A representative of the Office of Contract Compliance;
A representative of a nonprofit organization whose mission is to reintegrate former Offenders into
society;
(5) Two representatives appointed by the President, one of whom shall be a representative of
organized labor, and one of whom shall be a Commissioner.
(b) The Committee shall work with appropriate organizations to identify Former Offenders for
participation in this program.

Sec. 34-2343. Re-entry eEmployment plan.
A Contractor may qualify for Earned Credits by utilizing Former Offenders for work under a
Qualifying Contract. In order to so qualify, a Bidder must include in its Bid for such Qualifying Contract an
employment plan for Former Offenders by Contractor or any subcontractors. Bidders may request from the
Committee a list of candidates. If the Bidder or any subcontractor employs Former Offenders or identifies
potential candidates on its own, such candidates may be submitted to the Committee to determine if they are
Former Offenders, as defined in this division.

Page 36 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-2354. Re-entry employment eEarned credits.
(a) Upon the completion of a Qualifying Contract, a Contractor may apply to the CPO for Earned Credits,
on such forms and including such information as required by the CPO. If the Contractor met or
exceeded the Former Offender employment goals established in the Qualifying Contract. If the CPO
determines that the Contractor has successfully met or exceeded its employment plan in the Qualifying
Contract, the CPO shall issue an Earned Credit Certificate that evidences the amount of Earned Credits
calculated as set forth below. The Contractor may utilize the Earned Credits as set forth in this division
in a future Bid for a Contract for Public Works of equal of greater value as the Qualifying Contract, by
including a copy of the Earned Credit Certificate with its Bid.
(b) For any Qualifying Contract, the CPO shall determine the Earned Credits, as follows. And issue an
Earned Credit Certificate, which shall be valid for three years from the date of issuance.
Percentage of Total Labor Hours
Performed by
Former Offenders

Earned Credit

5—10%

½% of Bid price

Over 10%

1% of Bid price

(c) For purposes of calculating the lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder only, the CPO shall deduct
from the Bid Price the amount of Earned Credit set forth on the Earned Credit Certificate submitted by
a Bidder. If the Bidder is awarded the Contract, such Earned Credit Certificate may not be used again
in a future Bid.
Sec. 34-2365. Re-entry employment cContractor's records.
A Contractor shall retain all records supporting any Certificate of Earned Credits issued to such
Contractor for a period of at least three years after issuance of such Certificate. A Contractor shall impose
this requirement by contract with any subcontractors included in the employment plan. The Office of the
CPO shall have access to the Contractor's and such subcontractors' records.

Sec. 34-2376. Eligible Veterans’ preference, definitions.
It is the policy of the County to provide an incentive for Contractors for Public Works Contracts when
such Contractors utilize veterans for at least five percent of the hours worked under such Contract, as
hereinafter set forth. For purposes of this Division, "Eligible Veterans'" shall mean persons (a) who have
been either members of the armed forces of the United States or while citizens of the United States, have
been members of the armed forces of allies of the United States, (b) were members of such armed forces in
time of hostilities occurring after September 11, 2001, and (c) have served (i) a total of at least six months;
or (ii) for the duration of hostilities regardless of the length of engagement; or (iii) in the theater of
operations for less than six months but was discharged on the basis of a hardship; or the veteran was

Page 37 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

released from active duty because of a service-connected disability and was honorably discharged. The
preference provided for in this section will be one percent.
(a) Veterans’ Workplace Preference. The CPO shall give a preference of one percent of the amount of the
Contract to a Responsible and Responsive Contractor for a Public Works Contract when such
Contractor has committed by affidavit to utilize Eligible Veterans for at least five percent of the hours
worked under such Contract. Failure to utilize Eligible Veterans in accordance with the affidavit will
result in breach of contract.
(b) Veteran-owned Business and Service Disabled Veteran-owned Business preference. The CPO shall
give a preference of five percent of the amount of the Contract to a Responsible and Responsive VBE or
SDVBE.
The CPO shall develop procedures for implementation of this section. This Section shall take effect six
months after the date of adoption.
Sec. 34-2387. Qualified vVeteran-owned businesses incentive.
(a) Qualified Veteran-Owned Business means a business entity that is 51 percent or more owned by one or
more Eligible Veterans as defined in Section 34-237
(b) The CPO shall give a preference of five percent of the amount of the Contract to a Responsible and
Responsive Qualified Veteran-Owned Business. The CPO shall develop procedures for
implementation of this section 34-238(b). This section shall take effect six months after adoption.
(c) It is the goal of the County to award each year not less than fivethree percent of its total expenditures
for supplies, materials, equipment and services to Qualified Veteran-Owned BusinessesVBEs and
SDVBEs. The Contract Compliance Director may count toward its fivethree percent yearly goal that
portion of all Contracts in which the Contractor subcontracts with a Qualified Veteran-Owned
BusinessVBE or SDVBE. Each year, the CCD shall report to the County Board on all of the following
for the immediately preceding 12-month period:
(1) The number of Qualified Veteran-Owned Businesses VBEs and SDVBEs that who submitted a
Bid.
(2) The number of Qualified Veteran-Owned BusinessesVBEs and SDVBEs that who entered into
Contracts and the total value of those Contracts.
(3) Whether the County achieved the goal described in this subsection.
(b)(4)Each year, the CCD shall review the fivethree percent goal with input from countywide veterans'
service organizations and from the business community including Qualified Veteran-Owned
BusinessesVBEs and SDVBEs, and shall make recommendations to the County Board regarding
continuation, increases, or decreases in the percentage goal. The recommendations shall be based
upon the number of Qualified Veteran-Owned Businesses VBEs and SDVBEs and on the continued
need to encourage and promote businesses owned by qualified veterans.
(c)(5)The CPO will make best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make procurements from VBEs and
SDVBEs.

Page 38 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(d) The above-stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any
person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
(e)

The CCD, in consultation with the Using Agency, shall establish contract specific goals for each
contract. In establishing a contract specific goal, the CCD shall consider the availability of sufficient
certified VBEs and SDVBEs for supplies, materials and equipment, or services required as part of the
procurement.

(f) The provisions of this Division 6, Section 34-238(c) shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. The Contract
Compliance Director shall by such dateas soon as practicable develop and implement procedures and
any corresponding regulations for certifying and monitoring utilization of VBEs and SDVBEs
determining the availability of eligible veteran-owned businesses and shall report back to the County
Board on the appropriateness of the five percent goal, based on such availability.
Sec. 34-2398. VBE/SDVBE Certification. Qualified service-disabled veteran businesses incentive.
(a) The CCD shall certify a Person as a VBE when it is a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent
owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans; and (ii) that has its home office in
Illinois.
(b) The CCD shall certify Person as a SDVBE when it is a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent
owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified service-disabled veterans; and (ii) that has
its home office in Illinois.
(c) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by other
entities, provided that Cook County’s requirements are met.
(a) Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following terms are defined below: Service-Disabled
Veteran means an Eligible Veteran who became disabled in the line of duty while serving the United
States Armed Forces, and who received an other than dishonorable discharge.Service-Disabled
Veteran Business means a Small Business (as defined in Division 8):
(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more Service-Disabled Veterans; and
(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more
Service-Disabled Veterans or, in the case of an Eligible Veteran with permanent and severe
disability, the spouse of such veteran.
(b) In addition to the goals established pursuant to Section 34-238, it is the goal of the County to award
each year not less than three percent of its total expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment and
services to qualified Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Businesses.
(c) The CPO will make best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make procurements from qualified
Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Businesses.
(d) The above-stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any
person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.

Page 39 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(e) The provisions of this Division 6, Section 34-239 shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. The Contract
Compliance Director shall by such date develop procedures for determining the availability of
Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Businesses and shall report back to the County Board on the
appropriateness of the three percent goal, based on such availability.
Secs. 34-24039—34-249. Reserved.
DIVISION 7. INTEGRITY IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS
Sec. 34-250. Reporting irregularities suspected or known fraudulent activity.
The Board encourages Aany Person involved in the Cook County Procurement process, including
employees, contractors, and those seeking to do business with the County, shall to report directly and
without any undue delay, any suspected or known irregularities fraudulent activity in the County's
procurement process to the County Compliance Officer of the Office of the Cook County Inspector
General. In addition to any applicable laws protecting whistleblowers, the County shall ensure that a report
made in good faith will not result in any adverse action taken by the Board or the County against the Person
making such a report. The CPO's procedures will include a mechanism to publish this provision to all
appropriate Persons.
Sec. 34-251. Communications.
For all Procurements, the CPO shall establish procedures to ensure that communications from
individuals outside the County regarding a Procurement shall be memorialized and maintained in the
procurement file. Communications about a Procurement from or on behalf of an Elected Official or a Using
Agency shall also be memorialized and maintained in the Procurement file.
Secs. 34-252—34-259. Reserved.
DIVISION 8. MINORITY- AND WOMAN-OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
Subdivision I. General Provisions
Sec. 34-260. Short title.
This subdivision shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Minority- and Women-Owned
Business Enterprise General Ordinance. This subdivision is applicable to all Contracts, except Public
Works Contracts which are governed by Subdivision II of this Division 8.
Sec. 34-261. Findings.
(a) The County has heretofore adopted a Minority Business Enterprise Ordinance to ensure that minority
and women's businesses are provided full and equal opportunity to participate in Contracts.
(b) The Supreme Court of the United States in City of Richmond v. Croson, 488 U.S. 469 (1989), has
enunciated certain standards which are necessary to maintain effective affirmative action programs in
compliance with constitutional requirements.

Page 40 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(c) The County is committed to implementing its affirmative action program in conformance with the
United States Supreme Court's decision in City of Richmond v. Croson.
(d) In furtherance of this commitment, and at the direction of the Board, County staff and consultants
conducted an investigation into the scope of any discrimination in County Procurements, and in the
award of and participation in contracts in the metropolitan Chicago economy, the extent to which such
discrimination or the effects thereof has denied and continues to deny minority and women's business
enterprises equal opportunity to participate in Procurements and to recommend the appropriate
affirmative action steps to be taken to eliminate any such discrimination and its continuing effects.
(e) Minority and women's businesses continue to be awarded prime contracts and subcontracts in dollar
amounts that are disproportionately lower than the availability of such businesses willing and able to
perform Contracts.
(f) The County's procurement practices in the past have contributed to the above identified
underutilization of minority and women's businesses on Contracts.
(g) Minority and women's businesses continue to be disadvantaged by discriminatory practices in the local
construction industry and economy when competing for Contracts and in seeking subcontracting
opportunities on such Contracts.
(h) The County was a passive participant in the discriminatory practices of businesses which discriminate
against minority and women's businesses by entering into contracts with such businesses.
(i)

Despite its good faith efforts and implementation of previous affirmative action programs, minority
and women's businesses remain at a competitive disadvantage in competing for Contracts and
subcontracts.

(j)

Race and gender neutral measures or affirmative action programs without numerical goals have not
and are not likely to eliminate the competitive disadvantage of minority and women's businesses in
participating in Contracts due to discrimination in the local economy.

(k) The numerical goals for the participation of minority and women's businesses in Contracts are
commensurate with the availability of minority and women's businesses willing and able to perform
County work.
Sec. 34-262. Policy and purpose.
Based on the foregoing findings, the policy and purpose of this division are as follows:
(a) It is the public policy of the County to strive to achieve the full and equitable participation of
minority- and femalewoman-owned businesses in the County's procurement process as both
prime and subcontractors.

Page 41 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) The County is committed to a policy of preventing discrimination in making Procurements, and
eliminating arbitrary barriers to participation in Procurements by all persons, regardless of race,
sex, or ethnicity.
(c) The purpose of this division is to establish and implement goals for participation of PCEs in
Procurements, in compliance with all applicable laws.
Sec. 34-263. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Subdivision IDivision, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Capitalized tTerms not defined in this section are defined in Division 1 of this Procurement Code, or in
Section 1-3 of the County Code. Additional terms applicable to Subdivision II are set forth in such
subdivision.
Affiliate. An "Affiliate" of or a Person "Affiliated" with, a specified Person shall mean any Person that
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common
Control with, the Person Specified. Affiliates shall be considered together in determining whether a firm is
a small business.
Broker means a Person who or which neither manufactures the supplies, equipment or goods supplied
nor owns or operates a store, warehouse or other establishment (and related distribution equipment) in
which it maintains, consistent with industry standards, an inventory of the supplies, equipment or goods,
materials or supplies required for performance of the Contract for sale in the normal course of business. A
Broker provides no substantial service other than acting as a conduit between his or her supplier and his or
her customer.
Certified or Certification means registration of the Minority Business Enterprises or Women’s
Business Enterprise status of a business in the County’s Directory of Minority Business Enterprises,
Women’s Business Enterprises and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (“PCE Directory”).
Commercially Useful Function means the performance of a distinct element of work required for the
Procurement, with the requisite skill and expertiseshall have the meaning set forth in Section 34-383.
Contract means, for purposes of this Division 8, any Procurement or Contract (as defined in Section
34-121) in an amount exceeding $25,000.00.
Contract Specific Goals means the goals established under Section 34-267 that are based upon relevant
factors, including, but not limited to, the availability of MBEs or WBEs in the scopes of work of the Project.
County Marketplace means the six-county region, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry and Will.
Economically Disadvantaged means an individual with a Personal Net Worth less than $2,000,000.00
indexed annually for the Chicago Metro Area Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical
Workers, published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Standards, beginning January 2011.

Page 42 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Expertise means demonstrated skills, knowledge or ability to perform, as defined by normal industry
practices, including licensure where required, in a field.
Good Faith Efforts shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34-271.
Joint Venture means an association formed by two or more Persons to carry out a single business
enterprise, for which purpose they combine their expertise, property, capital, efforts, and skills.
Manufacturer means a Person that operates or maintains a factory or establishment that produces, on
the premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment required for a Procurement and of the general
character described by the specifications.
Minority Business Enterprise or MBE mean a Local Small Business, including a sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint Venture or any other business or professional
entity:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Minority Individuals, or in the case of a
publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one or
more Minority Individuals;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Minority Individuals; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time workforce located
within the County's Marketplace.
Minority Individual means an individual in one of the following groups:
(1) African-Americans or Blacks, which includes persons having origins in any of the Black racial
groups of Africa;
(2) Hispanic-Americans, which includes persons ofwho are Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban,
Caribbean, Dominican, Central or South American, regardless of race;
(3) Native-Americans, which includes persons who are American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or
Native Hawaiians; or
(4) Asian-Americans (persons whose origins are in any of the original peoples of the Far East Asia,
Southeast Asia, the islands of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas, or the Indian Subcontinent);
or
(5) Other groups, including, but not limited to, Arab-Americans, found by the County to be socially
disadvantaged by having suffered racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American
society, without regard to individual qualities, resulting in decreased opportunities to compete in
the County's Marketplace.

Page 43 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Owned means having all the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of disposition, and
the sharing in all risks and profits commensurate with the degree of ownership interest.
Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets of an individual after total liabilities are
deducted. An individual's personal net worth does not include the individual's ownership interest in an
applicant or other Certified MBE or WBE, provided that the other Person is certified by a governmental
agency that meets the County's eligibility criteria or the individual's equity in his or her primary place or
residence. As to assets held jointly with a spouse, an individual's Personal Net Worth includes only that
individual's share of such assets. An individual's Personal Net Worth also includes the present value of the
individual's interest in any vested pension plans, individual retirement accounts, or other retirement savings
or investment programs less the tax and interest penalties that would be imposed if the asset were
distributed at the present time.
Program means the Minority- and Women-Owned Businesses Enterprise Program established in this
division, and shall include the Public Works Participation Program.
Program Goals means the goals set forth in Section 34-267.
Protected Class Enterprise or PCE shall mean those Persons qualifying under the definitions of
Minority Business Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise contained in this section.
Public Works Participation Program means the program established pursuant to Subdivision II.
Regular Dealer means a Person that owns, operates, or maintains a store, warehouse, or other
establishment in which the materials, supplies, articles , equipment, or commodities (excluding software
licenses) of the general character required for the Procurement are bought, kept in stock, and regularly sold
or leased in the usual course of business. To be a Regular Dealer, the Person must be an established business
that engages, as its principal business and under its own name, in the Procurement and sale or lease of the
products in question. A Person may be a Regular Dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products, steel,
cement, gravel, stone, or asphalt without owning, operating, or maintaining a place of business if the Person
both owns and operates distribution equipment for the products. Any supplementing of such Person's
distribution equipment shall be by a long-term lease agreement and not on an ad hoc or contract-by-contract
basis. Packagers, manufacturer representatives, or other Persons who arrange or expedite transactions are
not Regular Dealers.
Small Business means a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration,
pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121, relevant to the scope(s) of work the
Person seeks to perform on Contracts. A Person is not an eligible small business enterprise in any calendar
fiscal year in which its gross receipts, averaged over the Person's previous five fiscal years, exceed the size
standards of 13 CFR Part 121.
Socially Disadvantaged means an individual who has been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender
prejudice or cultural bias within American society because of his or her identity as a member of a group and
without regard to individual qualities. Social disadvantage must stem from circumstances beyond the
individual's control. A Socially Disadvantaged individual must be a citizen or lawfully admitted permanent
resident of the United States.

Page 44 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Utilization Plan means a plan for utilization of PCEs described in Section 34-383.
Woman means a person of the female gender.
Woman O-owned Business Enterprise or WBE means a Local Small Business, including a sole
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint Venture or any other business or
professional entity:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent Owned by one or more Women, or in the case of a publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is Owned by one or more Women;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Women; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time work force
located within the County's Marketplace.
Sec. 34-264. Race- and gender-neutral measures to implement the program.
The County shall use measures such as the following in implementing the Program.
(a) Establishing schedules for submitting Bids and Quotations with adequate time frames for
identifying and contacting PCEs qualified to participate in the Procurement;
(b) Segmenting Procurements to facilitate the participation of MBEs, WBEs and other Small
Businesses;
(c) Providing timely information on contracting procedures, Bid preparation and specific contracting
opportunities;
(d) Holding pre-Bid conferences, where appropriate, to explain the projects and to encourage
Contractors to use available qualified PCEs;
(e) Reviewing retainage, bonding and insurance requirements to eliminate unnecessary barriers to
contracting with the County;
(f) Collecting information from all Contractors detailing the Bids or proposals received from all
subcontractors for Procurements and the expenditures to PCEs;
(g) At the discretion of the CCD, in cooperation with the CPO, periodically entering into a
procurement process without Program Goals or Project Specific Goals in order to determine MBE
and WBE utilization in the absence of such goals;
(h) Referring complaints of discrimination to Cook County's Commission on Human Rights, or other
appropriate authority, for investigation.

Page 45 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-265. Program administration.
(a) The Office of Contract Compliance, under the direction of the CCD, who shall report to the President,
shall administer the Program. The duties of the CCD shall include:
(1) Formulating, proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Program, certification process, recertification process, and
no-change affidavits, including time limitations for the submission of documents and information
regarding certification applications and contract participation. The CCD is authorized to collect
certification and recertification processing fees in the amount of $250.00 per Application; the
collection of said processing fees shall be transacted by the CCD through the Bureau of Finance.
(2) Providing information and assistance to PCEs and Small Businesses relating to the Program, and
serve as a liaison to community, contractor, professional and supplier groups, and associations
and organizations.
(3) Establishing uniform procedures and criteria for certifying, recertifying and decertifying Persons
as PCEs, accepting certifications by other agencies, and maintaining a directory of Certified
PCEs. Such procedures and criteria shall include non-certification or decertification for the
willful submission of false or inaccurate material information and the failure to submit complete
and accurate material information to the CCD regarding certification or a Procurement on a
timely basis, and shall relate to both PCEs and PCE owners.
(4) Establishing Contract Specific Goals based upon the availability of PCEs to provide the supplies,
materials and equipment or services required by the Contract.
(5) Monitoring Contracts to evaluate compliance with Contract Specific Goals and commitments.
(6) Cooperating with and providing assistance to Using Agencies to facilitate participation by PCEs
in Procurements.
(7) Reviewing, approving or rejecting Utilization Plans for achievement of Contract Specific Goals,
and evaluatinge the extent to which goals were achieved.
(8) Monitoring contracts to ensure compliance with Section 34-388, Prompt Payment of PCEs.
(9) Receiving, reviewing, and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the Program.
(10) Evaluatinge the effectiveness and utility of the Program.
(11) Monitoring the Program and the County's progress towards the Program Goals. The CCD shall
report on a quarterly and annual basis to the President on the Program.
(12) The CCD shall Rreporting to the CCC, at its request, information regarding the administration of
the Program and its progress toward achieving the Program Goals.

Page 46 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) Using Agencies shall cooperate with the CCD in the administration of the Program, specifically
including assisting the CCD with setting Contract Specific Goals and assisting in the identification of
available MBEs and WBEs.
Sec. 34-266. Contract compliance committee.
The Contract Compliance Committee ("CCC") shall be a Standing Committee of the Board, consisting
of seven members of the Board selected as set forth in Chapter 2, Article III, Section 2-105 of the Code. The
CCC shall review procedures, proposed modifications to the Program or this Division 8, and complaints as
referred by the CCD or the CPO.
Sec. 34-267. Program goals.
(a) The County aspires to the following annual Program Goals: A goal of 25 percent of the annual total
dollar amount of Contracts other than Public Works Contracts to MBEs, and ten percent of the total
dollar amount of such Contracts to WBEs. In addition, the County sets an annual "best efforts" goal of
35 percent PCE participation for the total professional services and consulting services utilized by the
County.
(b) The CCD, in consultation with the CPO and the Using Agency shall establish Contract Specific Goals
for each Contract. In establishing a Contract Specific Goal, the CCD shall consider the availability of
sufficient Certified MBEs and WBEs for the supplies, materials and equipment, and the CCD shall
consider the availability of sufficient Certified PCEs for the or services required as part of the
Procurement.
(c) No goal shall be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any Person on the basis of
race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
Sec. 34-268. Certification Criteria.
The CCD shall Certify only Persons that meet all the following criteria:
(a) The Person must be either an MBE or a WBE, or must establish that such Person has individually
suffered bias such that his or her opportunities to form and operate a successful business have been
substantially diminished because of race, ethnicity, culture or disability. Only Persons that meet the
criteria for certification as an MBE or WBE may participate in the Program. The applicant has the
burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) The Person must be either an individual who is Socially and Economically Disadvantaged or 51
percent Owned by one or more individuals who are Socially and Economically Disadvantaged.
(1) The Ownership by a Socially and Economically Disadvantaged Person must be real, substantial,
and continuing, going beyond pro forma ownership of the Person as reflected in Ownership
documents.

Page 47 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(2) The contributions to acquire the Ownership interest must be real and substantial, and in accord
with generally accepted industry standards. If eExpertise is part of the contribution, the Expertise
must be of the requisite quality generally recognized in a specialized field, necessary to the
Person's potential success, specific to the type of work the Person performs and documented in
the Person's records.
(c) The Person must be managed and cControlled by one or more Socially and Economically
Disadvantaged individual.
(1) There must not be any formal or informal restrictions that limit the customary discretion of the
Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s). There can be no restrictions through
corporate charter provisions, by-law provisions, contracts or any other formal or informal devices
that prevent the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s), without the cooperation
or vote of any non-Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individuals, from making any
business decision of the Person, including the making of obligations or the dispersing of funds.
(2) The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s) must possess the power to direct or
cause the direction of the management and policies of the Person and to make day-to-day as well
as long-term decisions on management, policy, operations and work.
(3) The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s) may delegate various areas of the
management or daily operations of the Person to individuals [who] are not Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged. Such delegations of authority must be revocable, and the Socially
and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s) must retain the power to hire and fire any such
Person. The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s) must actually exercise
control over the Person's operations, work, management and policy.
(4) The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s) must have an overall understanding
of, and managerial and technical competence, experience and Expertise, directly related to the
Person's operations and work. The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged individual(s) must
have the ability to intelligently and critically evaluate information presented by other participants
in the Person's activities and to make independent decisions concerning the Person's daily
operations, work, management, and policymaking.
(5) If federal, state or local laws, regulations or statutes require a particular license or other credential
to own or control a certain type of Person, then the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged
owner(s) must possess the license or credential. If state law, County ordinance or other law
regulations or statute does not require that the owner possess the license or credential, then the
fact that the owner(s) lacks such license or credential is a factor, but is not dispositive, in
determining whether the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) actually controls
the firm.
(6) A Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner cannot engage in outside employment or
other business interests that conflict with the management of the Person or prevent the owner
from devoting sufficient time and attention to manage and Control the Person's day to day
activities.

Page 48 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(d) Only an independent Person may be certified as a MBE or WBE. An independent Person is one whose
viability does not depend on its relationship with another Person, and who has the capacity or ability to
successfully undertake and complete the relevant work. Recognition of an applicant as a separate
entity for tax or corporate purposes is not necessarily sufficient to demonstrate that a Person is
independent. In determining whether an applicant is an independent business, the CCD will:
(1) Scrutinize relationships with non-Certified Persons in such areas as personnel, facilities,
equipment, financial and/or bonding support, and other resources.
(2) Consider whether present or recent employer/employee relationships between the Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) of the applicant and non-Certified Persons associated
with non-Certified Firms compromise the applicant's independence.
(3) Examine the applicant's relationships with non-Certified Persons to determine whether a pattern
of exclusive or primary dealings with non-Certified Persons compromises the applicant's
independence.
(4) Consider the consistency of relationships between the applicant and non-Certified Persons with
normal industry practice.
(e) The Person The CCD shall certify only Persons that meet all the above criteria. An applicant shall be
Ccertified only for specific supplies, equipment, goods or services, or for types of work in which the
Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) has the ability and Expertise to manage and
Ccontrol the Person's operations and work.
(f) The County shall certify the eligibility of Joint Ventures involving MBEs or WBEs and non-Certified
Firms, provided that the Joint Venture meets the criteria for certification as an MBE or WBE. To be
considered an eligible Joint Venture, at least one partner of the Joint Venture must be a Certified Firm,
with a share in the capital contribution, control, management, risks, and profits of the Joint Venture
which is equal to its ownership interest. Each Certified Firm partner must contribute property, capital,
efforts, skill and knowledge and be responsible for a distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the
contract. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions of the
relationships between the partners and their relationship and responsibility to the contract.
(fg) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by other
entities, provided that Cook County’s requirements are met In lieu of conducting its own
certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by other entities as meeting the
requirements of the Program, if the CCD determines that the certification standards of such entities are
comparable to those set forth herein.
(gh) The certification status of all MBEs and WBEs shall be reviewed periodically by the Office of
Contract Compliance. Failure of the Person to seek recertification by filing the necessary
documentation with the CCD as provided by rule may result in decertification.

Page 49 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(hi) It is the responsibility of the Certified PCE to notify the CCD of any change in its circumstances
affecting its continued eligibility for the Program. Failure to do so may result in the PCE's
decertification.
(ij) The CCD shall decertify a PCE that does not continuously meet the eligibility criteria.
(k) Disqualification pursuant to Division 4 of the Procurement Code shall create a prima facie case for
decertification by the County. The challenged PCE shall have the burden of proving that its County
certification should be maintained.
(jl) Decertification by another agency shall create a prima facie case for decertification by the County.
The challenged PCE shall have the burden of proving that its County certification should be
maintained.
(km) A Person that has been denied certification or recertification or has been decertified may protest the
denial or decertification as provided by rule. by submitting a petition for review in a proceeding made
pursuant to Part I, Chapter 2, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, and the Administrative Rules
promulgated thereunder.
(ln) A Person found to be ineligible may not apply for certification for six monthsone year after the
effective date of the final decision.
(mo) A third party may challenge the eligibility of an applicant for Certification or a Certified PCE pursuant
to procedures established by the CCD. Such challenges shall be signed and sworn by the individual
challenging the eligibility of an applicant for Certification or a Certified PCE. The burden of proof
shall rest with the complainant. Such challenges to eligibility shall be subject to an appeal. The CCD
shall be the final arbiter of all challenges. The presumption that the challenged PCE is eligible shall
remain in effect until the CCD renders a final decision.
Sec. 34-269. Utilization plan; commercially useful function.
(a) Utilization Plan required. The CPO shall include in Contract Documents for Contracts covered by this
Division, a requirement that a Utilization Plan be submitted which either: (i) commits to PCE
participation equal to or greater than the applicable Program Goals or Contract Specific Goals, or (ii)
requests a waiver of all or a portion of a Program Goal or Contract Specific Goal.
(1) The Utilization Plan shall be in such form and contain such information as is required by the CCD,
and may include such components as direct PCE participation, indirect PCE participation, and a
mentoring relationship with one or more PCEs.
(2) The Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid/proposal is due. Failure to include a Utilization
Plan will render the submission not Responsive.
(3) The CCD shall review and either approve or reject the Utilization Plan. For purposes of evaluation
a Utilization Plan, only PCEs which perform a Commercially Useful Function relative to the

Page 50 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

supplies, equipment, goods, services, or types of work for which the PCE has been certified shall
be considered.
(4) Once a Utilization Plan has been approved, the Contractor cannot make changes to the Utilization
Plan, including substituting PCEs named in the Utilization Plan, without the prior written
approval of the CCD, CPO and the Using Agency. The CCD shall promulgate procedures for
changes to the Utilization Plan.
(b) Commercially Useful Function. To be considered in meeting Goals, a PCE must perform a
Commercially Useful Function, as determined pursuant to this Subsection 34-269(b). "Commercially
Useful Function" means the performance of a distinct element of work required for the Procurement,
with the requisite skill and Expertise.
(1) In the case of a Procurement of goods or equipment, ordering from a manufacturer or distributor
for delivery directly to the Using Agency is not a Commercially Useful Function; provided,
however, that to the extent such practice is consistent with normal industry practices, a PCE
subcontractor may enter into second tier subcontracts. However, if a PCE Contractor or
subcontractor subcontracts a significantly greater portion of the work of the Contract than would
be expected on the basis of normal industry practices, the PCE shall be presumed not to be
performing a Commercially Useful Function.
(2) In the case of a Procurement of services, a Person which subcontracts with another Person to
perform the services required does not perform a Commercially Useful Function unless such
Person also performs significant supervisory or management responsibilities. A Broker does not
fulfill a Commercially Useful Function. In the case of a Joint Venture partner, each Joint Venture
partner must perform a Commercially Useful Function.
(c 3) A PCE does not perform a Commercially Useful Function if its role is limited to that of an extra
participant in the Contract through which funds are passed in order to obtain the appearance of
PCE participation.
(d4) When a PCE is presumed not to be performing a Commercially Useful Function, the Certified
PCE and the Person seeking to include that PCE in its Utilization Plan, may present evidence to
rebut this presumption.
(e) Once a Utilization Plan has been approved, the Contractor cannot make changes to the Utilization
Plan, including substituting PCEs named in the Utilization Plan, without the prior written approval of
the CCD, CPO and the Using Agency. The CCD shall promulgate procedures for changes to the
Utilization Plan.
Sec. 34-270. Methods to achieve goals and compliance.
A Person may achieve the applicable Contract Specific Goals in any one or more of the methods set
forth below. The same PCE, whether as a contractor, subcontractor or supplier, cannot be utilized as both a
MBE and a WBE on the same Contract.

Page 51 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(1) PCE as prime Contractor. An MBE or WBE may count its own participation toward the
achievement of the applicable MBE or WBE goal. Such PCE will be required to meet the other
goals by another method described herein. If a WBE is also a MBE, such WBE's participation
may count toward either the MBE or WBE Goal but not both.
(2) Joint Venture with one or more PCE. Where a Person engages in a Joint Venture with one or more
PCEs, the Utilization Plan shall include a written agreement at least the information set forth in
Subsection 34-384(ii)1 through 4 [(2)a. through d.] below. The CCD shall consider the following
in determining whether the proposed Utilization Plan satisfies the Program Goals based upon
such written Joint Venture agreement and the Utilization Plan.
a.
b.
c.
d.

Each Joint Venture partner's initial capital investment;
The extent to which the PCE's proposed participation in the performance of the Contract
constitutes a Commercially Useful Function;
Whether the PCE's share in the risks and profits of the Joint Venture is proportional to their
ownership interest;
Whether the PCE will have duties, responsibilities, management Control and risk with
respect to the Joint Venture in proportion to its ownership interest;

(3) Subcontracting. A Person may achieve the Contract Specific Goals by means of subcontracting
with, or purchasing from one or more PCEs.
Sec. 34-271. Request for a total or partial waiver; good faith efforts.
(a) In reviewing a partial or total request for waiver of a Goal, the CCD shall determine whether a Person
has made good faith efforts to meet the applicable Goals and to what extent the waiver request should
be granted. In determining whether a Person has made Good faith efforts, the CCD will consider
whether the Person has taken the following actions:
(1) Review lists of PCEs maintained by the County and other State and local governments and
agencies to identify qualified PCEs for solicitation for Bids;
(2) Divide Procurement requirements into small tasks or quantities. This shall include, where
appropriate, breaking out Contract work items into economically feasible units, consistent with
the availability of PCEs, to facilitate PCE participation, even when the Contractor would
otherwise prefer to perform these work items with its own forces;
(3) Adjust any insurance requirements imposed by the Person seeking PCEs, or otherwise assist
PCEs in obtaining any required insurance, where economically feasible, to encourage
participation by PCEs;
(4) Make timely attempts to contact PCEs providing the type of supplies, equipment, goods or
services required for the Procurement; and provide them with a convenient and timely
opportunity to obtain and review all information concerning the Procurement necessary to enable
such PCE to respond;

Page 52 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(5) Follow up initial contacts of PCEs to determine if they are interested participating in the
Procurement;
(6) Negotiate in good faith and on a timely basis with PCEs to enable them to participate in the
Procurement. Evidence of such negotiation includes the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of PCEs that were contacted; a description of the information provided regarding the
plans and specifications for the work selected for subcontracting; and why agreements could not
be reached. The Contractor may not reject PCEs as being unqualified without sound reasons. That
there may be some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs is not in itself sufficient
reason for a Contractor's failure to meet the Goals, as long as such costs are reasonable;
(7) Make efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or
related assistance or services, where appropriate; provided, however, that such efforts shall not be
inconsistent with the requirement that the PCE be responsible for actually obtaining and paying
for such items;
(8) Establish delivery schedules which will encourage participation by PCEs, where the requirements
of the Procurement permit;
(9) Use the services and assistance of the CCD's staff, the Small Business Administration, the Office
of Minority Business Enterprises of the U.S. Department of Commerce;
(10) Timely notify appropriate community and minority and women's business organizations
identified as assist agencies of the opportunity for participation in the Procurement;
(11) Demonstrate to the CCD that no PCE exists with which a mentor/protege relationship could be
established, as described in Section 34-271
(b) In determining whether a Bidder or Respondent has made Good Faith Efforts, the levels of
participation by PCEs set forth in Utilization Plans submitted by other Persons for the same
Procurement may be considered. For example, if the apparent successful Bidder or Respondent fails to
meet the Contract Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average PCE participation obtained by
other Bidders or Respondents, this may be evidence that the apparent successful Bidder or Respondent
made Good Faith Efforts.
(c) Where the County requires professional services, the County must be able to call upon those
professionals whose particular training and experience are most beneficial to the County.
(1) The County sets an annual "best efforts" goal of 35 percent PCE participation for the total
professional services and consulting services utilized by the County.
(2) A Utilization Plan shall be required, and if a waiver or partial waiver is requested, "good faith"
efforts shall be demonstrated as set forth in Section 34-271; provided, however, that such Persons
shall not be required to attempt to subcontract with PCEs if subcontractors would not typically be
utilized for the type of Procurement. In such cases, the Person shall document the reasons for not
subcontracting in a waiver request.

Page 53 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(32) The Contractor will endeavor to maximize use of PCEs for supplies, equipment, goods or services
for such Contractor's business operations not specifically for the Procurement.
(43) If such Person is required to have or has an affirmative action plan and goals, such plan and goals
shall be submitted with their Utilization Plan. The CCD shall compare such plan and goals with
the Person's actual affirmative action achievements and such achievements may be considered by
the County in future Procurements.
(d) Mentor/protege agreements. Where a Contractor enters into mentor/protege agreement with a PCE to
improve or develop certain aspects of the business of the PCE, the CCD shall evaluate the effect of
such agreement as a factor in determining good faith efforts. The mentor/protege agreement may
provide for the Contractor to assist the PCE in such areas as technical aspects of the PCE's business,
improving financial management, or providing on-the-job training. To constitute good faith efforts,
the mentor/protege agreement shall satisfy the following requirements.
(1) The PCE performs a Commercially Useful Function;
(2) The agreement shall be included in the Utilization Plan; and
(3) The agreement clearly defines the respective responsibilities of the Contractor and the PCE and
includes specific, measurable goals to be attained by both parties through the performance of the
agreement. In order to be a factor in establishing best efforts, the mentor/protege agreement must
be for a reasonable period of time.
(e) The CCD may grant a total or partial waiver based upon the following criteria:
(1) There are not sufficient PCEs capable of providing the supplies, equipment, goods or services
required for the Procurement;
(2) The Procurement cannot reasonably be divided;
(3) The price required by potential PCEs is more than ten percent above competitive levels; and
(4) Any other factor relating to good faith efforts as set forth in the Person's Utilization Plan.
Sec. 34-272. Calculating PCE participation.
In calculating a PCE's participation, only dollar amounts commensurate with a PCE's performance of a
Commercially Useful Function may be counted.
(a) The dollar value of that portion of a Procurement that is performed by the PCEs' own forces shall
be counted, including the cost of supplies, materials and equipment furnished by the PCE for the
Procurement, whether purchased or leased (except to the extent purchased or leased from the
Contractor or the Contractor's Affiliate).

Page 54 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) The dollar amount of fees or commissions charged by a PCE for providing a bona fide service,
such as professional, technical, consultant, managerial, insurance brokerage or surety services,
shall be counted, provided the fee is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees
customarily charged for similar services.
(c) When a PCE is a Joint Venture partner, only the dollar value of the distinct, clearly defined work
performed by the PCE with its own forces, shall be counted.
(d) Only the dollar value must be commensurate with the work the PCE actually performs.
(e) One hundred percent of the cost of the supplies, equipment or goods obtained from a PCE
Manufacturer, or Distributor, or Regular Dealer shall be counted.
(f) One hundred percent of the fees or transportation charges for the delivery of supplies, equipment,
materials or goods shall be counted only if the payment of such fees is a customary industry
practice and such fees are commensurate with fees customarily charged for similar services.
(g) If a PCE ceases to be Certified during its performance on a Procurement, the dollar value of work
performed under a Contract with that Person after it has ceased to be Certified shall not be
counted.
(h) Only the dollar amount actually paid to the PCE shall be counted toward the participation of a
PCE.
Sec. 34-273. Review of contract performance.
(a) Compliance with Utilization Plan. The CCD shall review the Contractor's compliance with its
Utilization Plan as necessary during the performance of the Contract. The CCD may establish such
requirements for periodic Contractor reporting on compliance with its Utilization Plan as the CCD
determines appropriate and necessary. A Contractor shall be required to provide any additional
requested compliance documentation within 14 days of request by the CCD.
(1) If the CCD determines that the Contractor has failed to comply with its Utilization Plan, the CCD
shall notify the CPO of such failure. The CPO shall then send notice of default to the Contractor,
and the Contractor shall have such time to cure the default as is provided in the Contract. If no
such period is provided, the Contractor shall have ten days to cure such default. For purposes of
this section, providing a plan for bringing the Contract into compliance with the Utilization Plan
may constitute a cure, if compliance cannot reasonably be achieved within the applicable cure
period, and if compliance is achieved in accordance with such plan.
(2) If a Contractor fails to provide any documentation required by the CCD, the CCD shall notify the
CPO of such failure. The CPO shall then send notice of default to the Contractor, and the
Contractor shall have such time to cure the default as is provided in the Contract. If no such period
is provided, the Contractor shall have ten days to cure such default.

Page 55 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) Bid and target market programs. To address more specifically the barriers to PCE participation as
prime Contractors in County work, the CCD may recommend to the CPO to institute the following
special PCE bidding provisions, following determination of the appropriateness of such provisions.
(1) In connection with the award of a Contract subject to competitive bidding on which a PCE has bid
and where the PCE is bidding on the item in question for the first time; and has never successfully
bid on a Cook County purchasing contract, the Contract Compliance Director may, at the opening
of the bids on the item, compare the PCE Bid with the lowest Bid, and, if the PCE's Bid is closely
competitive as defined by guidelines to be established by the Contract Compliance Director with
that of lowest actual Bids, direct the CPO to declare the PCE the successful Bidder. A PCE may
use this procedure only once to become the successful Bidder on any particular item. Thereafter,
the PCE must be totally competitive in terms of price to be the successful Bidder.
(2) The Contract Compliance Director shall develop and coordinate a target market program as
follows:
a.

The Contract Compliance Director shall review the availability of PCEs providing various
goods and services and shall identify for inclusion in a potential program for bidding,
Requests for Qualifications, and Requests for Proposals among PCE Persons certain
commodity, goods or services areas with sufficient PCE availability to ensure that the
County receives a competitive price. The Contract Compliance Director shall report his/her
findings and recommendations to the Contract Compliance Committee;

b.

Upon a determination by the CCD that such a program is advisable for any particular
commodity, goods or services procurement, the Contract Compliance Director will institute
the following procedures:
1.

The Contract Compliance Director will notify the CPO of identification of those
commodity, goods, services, or North American Industry Classification Standard
(NAICS) codes appropriate for a target market program;

2.

To the extent practicable, the CPO, with the aid of the Contract Compliance Director,
shall divide procurement in the designated commodity, goods or services areas into
economically feasible sizes to facilitate Bids, Requests for Qualifications, or Requests
for Proposals or offers from PCEs and shall designate contracts to be offered under the
target market program;

3.

The CPO shall offer PCEs the opportunity to bid on such contracts, or submit responses
or proposals, in a limited competition;

4.

All standard County procurement rules for bidding, Requests for Qualifications, or
Requests for Proposals, will then become effective and, provided that at least three
PCEs Bid or submit responses or proposals make an offer on the contract, the lowest
Responsive and Responsible Bidder, Proposer, or Respondent among the PCEs will
receive the contract;

Page 56 of 159

 Board of Commissioners
5.

c.

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

In the event less than three PCEs Bid or submit responses or proposals pursuant to a
Request for Qualifications or Request for Proposalsmake an offer on the Contract, or in
the event that if there is no Responsive Bid or best and final Response or Proposal offer
received from a Responsible PCE, the CPO shall rebid the Contract or reissue the
Request for Qualifications or Request for Proposals not subject to the target market
program.

Participation in the target market program shall be limited to Minority Business Enterprises,
Women's Business Enterprises and Joint Ventures consisting exclusively of Minority
Business Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises or both. The PCE Contractor on a target
market Contract may subcontract up to 49 percent of the dollar value of the target market
Contract to subcontractors who are not Minority Business Enterprises or Women's Business
Enterprises.

Sec. 34-274. Prompt payment of PCEs.
If an invoice from a Contractor includes payment for supplies, equipment, goods or services furnished
by a PCE, Contractor shall pay such PCE for such supplies, equipment, goods or services within 3015 days
after receipt of payment from the County. The CCD shall investigate any complaint or charge of excessive
delay in payment, and shall report the results of such investigations to the Contract Compliance Committee
and to the County Comptroller. Failure of Contractor to comply with this section 34-388 shall constitute a
material breach of the Contract.
Sec. 34-275. Reporting and review.
The CCD shall report to the Board on an annual basis with respect to the following:
(1) The percentage of the total dollar amount of Procurements for such year actually received by
PCEs;
(2) The number of MBEs and WBEs available for participation in Procurements, by category;
(3) An evaluation of the effectiveness of this division in ensuring equitable participation by PCEs in
Procurements;
(4) An assessment of the continuing need for the Program;
(5) Identification of any enforcement problems; and
(6) Any recommendations with respect to modifying or improving the Program, including
discontinuing or modifying Program Goals in those cases where Minority Business Enterprises
and Women's Business Enterprises no longer are disadvantaged by the effects of discrimination in
their participation in Procurements.

Page 57 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 34-276. Prohibited provisions.
Any agreement between a Contractor and a MBE or WBE in which the Contractor requires that the
MBE or WBE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors is prohibited.
Secs. 24-277. —34-284. Reserved.
Subdivision II. Participation in Cook County Public Works Contracts
Sec. 34-285. Short title; incorporation of provisions.
This subdivision may be known and cited as the Cook County Public Works Minority- and
Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance and may be cited as such.
Sec. 34-286. Findings.
(a) The findings set forth in Subdivision I, Section 34-261 of this Division 8 are incorporated herein by
this reference.
(b) After the requirement in Subdivision I that minority- and women-owned businesses (M/WBEs) be
allotted certain percentages of County construction contracts was ruled unconstitutional, the County
witnessed a drastic reduction in M/WBE construction prime contract and subcontract participation.
(c) The President and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook, after considering (i) evidence
presented at trial in Builders Association of Greater Chicago v. City of Chicago, 298 F.Supp.2d 725
(N.D. Ill. 2003) and Northern Contracting, Inc. v. Illinois Department of Transportation, 2005 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 19868 (N.D. Ill. Sept. 8, 2005); (ii) County statistical evidence of continuing
discrimination against Blacks, Hispanics, Asians and women in the County's Procurements; (iii) the
Report title, "Review of Compelling Evidence of Discrimination Against Minority- and
Women-Owned Business Enterprise in the Chicago Area Construction Industry and
Recommendations for Narrowly Tailored Remedies for Cook County, Illinois;" as well as (iv)
anecdotal evidence of discrimination against minorities and women in the County's Public Works
Contracts; and (v) receiving and considering written reports, adopts the following findings as a strong
basis in evidence supporting a narrowly tailored, remedial affirmative action program in Public Works
Contracts.
(d) The County seeks to provide a level playing field and equal access for all prime contractors and
subcontractors to participate in Public Works Contracts.
(e) The County has engaged in committee hearings in which the County has heard anecdotal evidence of
discrimination in the construction industry, has commissioned and reviewed the study entitled "The
Status of Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises Relevant to Construction Activity In and
Around Cook County, Illinois" (the "NERA Study") on the levels of PCE participation in Public
Works Contracts, and has considered the evidence in relevant case law; and

Page 58 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(f) The NERA Study made recommendations for a revised Minority- and Women-owned business
program for construction contracting, emphasizing the establishment of Project-specific goals,
implementation of race- and gender-neutral measures, and enhancements to data gathering,
implementation and performance monitoring of the program;
(g) The County has a compelling interest in preventing discrimination and desires to reaffirm its
commitment to full and fair opportunities for all firms to participate in its construction contracts.
Sec. 34-287. Policy.
It is hereby found, determined and declared that the purpose of this Ordinance is to ensure the full and
equitable participation of Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises in the County's procurement
process as both prime and subcontractors in the County's Public Works contracts. The County is committed
to a policy of preventing discrimination in the award of or participation in Public Works contracts and has
recommended appropriate narrowly tailored remedies to eliminate any such discrimination.
Sec. 34-288. Applicability.
This subdivision shall apply to all Public Works contracts, regardless of the sources of other funds;
provided that any Public Works contract with respect to which a goal for Minority-Owned Business
Enterprise or Women-Owned Business Enterprise participation is inconsistent with or prohibited by State
or Federal law shall be exempt from the goals included in this subdivision.
Sec. 34-289. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause or provision of this subdivision is held to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the subdivision shall not be affected by such invalidity.
Sec. 34-290. Definitions.
The following terms shall have the following meanings:
Affiliate of a person or entity means a person or entity that directly or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person or entity. In
determining Affiliation, the County shall consider all appropriate factors, including common ownership,
common management, and contractual relationships. Affiliates shall be considered together in determining
whether a firm is a Small Business. Affiliate. An "Affiliate" of or a Person "Affiliated" with, a specified
Person shall mean any Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is
Controlled by, or is under common Control with, the Person Specified. Affiliates shall be considered
together in determining whether a firm is a small business.
Annual Participation Goals mean the targeted levels established by the County for the annual
aggregate participation of MBEs and WBEs in County construction contracts.
Applicant means a person who submits documents and information seeking certification, continued
certification, or re-certification as an MBE, WBE, VBE, or SDVBE to the Office of Contract Compliance.

Page 59 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Business means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint
Venture or any other business or professional entity.
Certified Firm means a firm that has been accepted by the County as a certified MBE or WBE.
Certified or Certification means the granting of Minority Business Enterprises, or Women's Business
Enterprise status to an Applicant.
Contract means any Procurement or Contract (as defined in Section 34-121) in an amount exceeding
$25,000.00.
Contractor means any Business that seeks to enter into a construction contract with the County, other
than for professional services, and includes all partners and Affiliates Business.
Commercially Useful Function means responsibility for the execution of a distinct element of the work
of the contract, which is carried out by actually performing, managing, and supervising the work involved,
or fulfilling such responsibilities as a Joint Venture partner.
Compliance Contract Director or "CC Director" means the Contract Compliance Director.
County means the County of Cook and its participating User Departments.
County's Marketplace means the six-county region, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry and Will.
Doing Business means having a physical location from which to engage in for-profit activities in the
scope(s) of expertise of the Business.
Economically Disadvantaged means an individual with a Personal Net Worth less than $2,000,000.00
indexed annually for the Chicago Metro Area Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical
Workers, published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Standards, beginning January 2011.
Expertise means demonstrated skills, knowledge or ability to perform in the field of endeavor in which
certification is sought by the Business, as defined by normal industry practices, including licensure where
required.
Good Faith Efforts means actions undertaken by a Contractor pursuant to Sec. 34-271to achieve an
MBE or WBE goal, which, by their scope, intensity, and appropriateness to the objective, can reasonably be
expected to fulfill the Program's goals.
Joint Venture means an association of two or more Businesses proposing to perform a for-profit
business enterprise. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions
of the relationships between the partners and their relationship and responsibility to the contract.
Local Business means a Business located within the County's Marketplace which has the majority of
its regular, full-time work force located within the County's Marketplace.

Page 60 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Local Small Business means a Local Business which is also a Small Business.
Manufacturer means a firm that operates or maintains a factory or establishment that produces, on the
premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment required under the contract and of the general
character described by the specifications.
Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) means a Business:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Minority Individuals, or in the case of a
publicly owned Business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one
or more Minority Individuals;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and controlled by one or more Minority Individuals;
(3) Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;
(4) Which is a Certified Firm; and
(5) Which is a Local Small Business.
Minority Individual means:
(1) African-Americans or Blacks, which includes persons having origins in any of the Black racial
groups of Africa;
(2) Hispanic-Americans, which includes persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Caribbean,
Dominican, Central or South American [sic];
(3) Native-Americans, which includes persons who are American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or
Native Hawaiians; or
(4) Asian-Americans, which includes persons whose origins are in any of the original peoples of the
Far East, Southeast Asia, the islands of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas, or the Indian
Subcontinent; or
(5) Individual members of other groups, including, but not limited to, Arab-Americans, found by the
County to be socially disadvantaged by having suffered racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias
within American society, without regard to individual qualities, resulting in decreased
opportunities to compete in the County's marketplace or to do business with the County.
Minority Business Enterprise or MBE mean a Local Small Business, including a sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint Venture or any other business or professional
entity:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Minority Individuals, or in the case of a
publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one or
more Minority Individuals;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Minority Individuals; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time workforce located
within the County's Marketplace.

Page 61 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Minority Individual means an individual in one of the following groups:
(1) African-Americans or Blacks, which includes persons having origins in any of the Black racial
groups of Africa;
(2) Hispanic-Americans, which includes persons who are Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Caribbean,
Dominican, Central or South American, regardless of race;
(3) Native-Americans, which includes persons who are American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or
Native Hawaiians; or
(4) Asian-Americans (persons whose origins are in any of the original peoples of the Far East Asia,
Southeast Asia, the islands of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas, or the Indian Subcontinent);
or
(5) Other groups, including, but not limited to, Arab-Americans, found by the County to be socially
disadvantaged by having suffered racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American
society, without regard to individual qualities, resulting in decreased opportunities to compete in
the County's Marketplace.
Owned means having all of the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of disposition,
and sharing in all of the risks, responsibilities and profits commensurate with the degree of ownership.
Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets of an individual after total liabilities are
deducted. An individual's personal net worth does not include the individual's ownership interest in an
applicant or other County certified MBE or WBE or the individual's equity in his or her primary place or
residence. As to assets held jointly with his or her spouse, an individual's personal net worth includes only
that individual's share of such assets. An individual's net worth also includes the present value of the
individual's interest in any vested pension plans, individual retirement accounts, or other retirement savings
or investment programs less the tax and interest penalties that would be imposed if the asset were
distributed at the present time. Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets of an individual after
total liabilities are deducted. An individual's personal net worth does not include the individual's ownership
interest in an applicant or other Certified MBE or WBE, provided that the other Person is certified by a
governmental agency that meets the County's eligibility criteria or the individual's equity in his or her
primary place or residence. As to assets held jointly with a spouse, an individual's Personal Net Worth
includes only that individual's share of such assets. An individual's Personal Net Worth also includes the
present value of the individual's interest in any vested pension plans, individual retirement accounts, or
other retirement savings or investment programs less the tax and interest penalties that would be imposed if
the asset were distributed at the present time.
Program means the Program established by the Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprise
Interim Ordinance.
Project Specific Goals means the Goals established for a particular project or contract based upon the
availability of MBEs or WBEs in the scopes of work of the Project.

Page 62 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Public Works means all fixed works constructed or demolished by the County, or paid for wholly or in
part out of public funds administered by the County. "Public Works" as defined herein includes all projects
financed in whole or in part with bonds, grants, loans, or other funds made available by or through federal
or State government, or the County. "Public Works" does not include projects undertaken by the owner at
an owner-occupied single-family residence or at an owner-occupied unit of a multifamily residence.
"Public Works" includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly work performed on equipment
whether owned, leased, or rented.
Regular Dealer means a firm that owns, operates, or maintains a store, warehouse, or other
establishment in which the materials, supplies, articles or equipment of the general character described by
the specifications and required under the contract are bought, kept in stock, and regularly sold or leased to
the public in the usual course of business. To be a Regular Dealer, the firm must be an established, regular
Business that engages, as its principal business and under its own name, in the purchase and sale or lease of
the products in question. A firm may be a Regular Dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products, steel,
cement, gravel, stone, or asphalt without owning, operating, or maintaining a place of business if the firm
both owns and operates distribution equipment for the products. Any supplementing of a Regular Dealer's
distribution equipment shall be by a long-term lease agreement and not on an ad hoc or contract-by-contract
basis. Packagers, manufacture representatives, or other persons who arrange or expedite transactions are
not Regular Dealers.
Small Business means a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration,
pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121, relevant to the scope(s) of work the firm
seeks to perform on County contracts. A firm is not an eligible small business enterprise in any calendar
fiscal year in which its gross receipts, averaged over the firm's previous five fiscal years, exceed the size
standards of 13 CFR Part 121.
Socially Disadvantaged means a Minority Individual or Woman who has been subjected to racial,
ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias within American society because of his or her identity as a
member of a group and without regard to individual qualities. Social disadvantage must stem from
circumstances beyond the individual's control. A Socially Disadvantaged individual must be a citizen or
lawfully admitted permanent resident of the United States.
User Department means the department of the County or elected official responsible for initiating the
procurement process.
Utilization Plan means the list of MBEs and WBEs that the Bidder/Proposer commits will be utilized,
the scopes of the work and the dollar values or the percentages of the work to be performed.
Woman means a person of the female gender.
Woman-Owned Business Enterprise (WBE) means a Business:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more Women, or in the case of a publicly owned
Business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one or more Women;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and controlled by one or more such Women;
(3) Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

Page 63 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(4) Which is a Certified Firm; and
(5) Which is a Local Small Business.
Woman-owned Business Enterprise or WBE means a Local Small Business, including a sole
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint Venture or any other business or
professional entity:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent Owned by one or more Women, or in the case of a publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of all classes of the stock of which is Owned by one or more Women;
(2) Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are independently
managed and Controlled by one or more such Women; and
(3) Which has its principal place of business and a majority of its regular, full-time work force
located within the County's Marketplace.
Sec. 34-291. Program administration.
(a) The CC Director, who shall report to the President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County,
shall administer the Program, and whose duties shall include:
(1) Formulating, proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Program, certification process, recertification process, and
no-change affidavits, including time limitations for the submission of documents and information
regarding certification applications and contract participation. The CCD is authorized to collect
certification and recertification processing fees in the amount of $250.00 per Application; the
collection of said processing fees shall be transacted by the CCD through the Bureau of Finance.
(2) Providing information and assistance to MBEs and WBEs relating to County procurement
practices and procedures, and bid specifications, requirements, goals and prerequisites.
(3) Establishing uniform procedures and criteria for certifying, recertifying and decertifying
Businesses as MBEs and WBEs, accepting certifications by other agencies, and maintaining a
directory of Certified Firms. Such procedures and criteria shall include non-certification or
decertification for the willful submission of false or inaccurate material information and the
failure to submit complete and accurate material information to the CCD regarding certification
or a Procurement on a timely basis, and shall relate to both PCEs and PCE owners.
(4) Establishing Project Specific Goals, in collaboration with the User Department.
(5) Evaluating Contractors' achievement of Project Specific Goals and/or Good Faith Efforts to meet
Project Specific Goals.
(6) Working with User Departments to monitor contracts to ensure prompt payments to MBEs and
WBEs and compliance with Project Specific Goals and commitments, including gathering data to
facilitate such monitoring.

Page 64 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(7) Receiving, reviewing, and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the Program.
(8) Collecting data to evaluate the Program and other County contracting initiatives.
(9) Monitoring the Program and the County's progress towards the Annual Participation Goals. The
CC Director shall report on a quarterly and annual basis to the President on the administration and
operations of the Program.
(b) The User Departments that receive appropriate delegation for project management, contract
management, and/or construction and/or design contract responsibility shall have the following duties
and responsibilities with regard to the Program:
(1) Assisting the CC Director with setting Project Specific Goals.
(2) Assisting in the identification of available MBEs and WBEs, and providing other assistance in
meeting the Project Specific Goals.
(3) Performing other activities to support the Program.
(4) Gathering and maintaining prime contracting and subcontracting data for those contracts which
they manage.
(5) Submitting subcontracting data as required to the CC Director.
Sec. 34-292. Race- and gender-neutral measures to ensure equal opportunities for all contractors
and subcontractors.
The County shall develop and use measures to facilitate the participation of all firms in County
construction contracting activities. These measures shall include, but are not limited to:
(a) Arranging solicitation times for the presentations of bids, quantities, specifications, and delivery
schedules to facilitate the participation of interested firms;
(b) Segmenting, structuring or issuing contracts to facilitate the participation of MBEs, WBEs and
other Small Businesses;
(c) Providing timely information on contracting procedures, bid preparation and specific contracting
opportunities;
(d) Providing assistance to Business in overcoming barriers such as difficulty in obtaining bonding
and financing;
(e) Holding pre-bid conferences, where appropriate, to explain the projects and to encourage
Contractors to use all available qualified firms as subcontractors;

Page 65 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(f) Adopting prompt payment procedures, including, requiring by contract that prime Contractors
promptly pay subcontractors within 15 days in accordance with Section 34-165;
(g) Reviewing retainage, bonding and insurance requirements to eliminate unnecessary barriers to
contracting with the County;
(h) Collecting information from all prime Contractors on County construction contracts detailing the
bids received from all subcontractors for County construction contracts and the expenditures to
subcontractors utilized by prime Contractors on County construction contracts;
(i)

At the discretion of the CC Director, letting a representative sample of County construction
contracts without goals, to determine MBE and WBE utilization in the absence of goals;

(j)

Maintaining information on all firms bidding on County prime contracts and subcontracts; and

(k) Referring complaints of discrimination to Cook County's Commission on Human Relations, or
other appropriate authority, for investigation.
Sec. 34-293. Program eligibilityCertification Criteria.
(a) Only Businesses that meet the criteria for certification as an MBE or WBE may participate in the
Program. The applicant has the burden of persuasion proof by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) Only a firm owned by a Socially and Economically Disadvantaged person(s) may be certified as an
MBE or WBE.
(1) The firm's ownership by a Socially and Economically Disadvantaged person must be real,
substantial, and continuing, going beyond pro forma ownership of the firm as reflected in
ownership documents. The owner(s) must enjoy the customary incidents of ownership and share
in the risks and profits commensurate with that ownership interest.
(2) The contributions of capital or Expertise by the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged
owner(s) to acquire the ownership interest must be real and substantial and in accord with
generally accepted industry standards. If Expertise is relied upon as part of a Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged owner's contribution to acquire ownership, the Expertise must be of
the requisite quality generally recognized in a specialized field, in areas critical to the firm's
operations, indispensable to the firm's potential success, specific to the type of work the firm
performs and documented in the firm's records. The individual whose Expertise is relied upon
must have a commensurate financial investment in the firm.
(c) Only a firm that is managed and controlled by a Socially and Economically Disadvantaged person(s)
may be certified as an MBE or WBE.
(1) A firm must not be subject to any formal or informal restrictions that limit the customary
discretion of the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s). There can be no restrictions
through corporate charter provisions, by-law provisions, contracts or any other formal or informal

Page 66 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

devices that prevent the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s), without the
cooperation or vote of any non-Socially and Economically Disadvantaged person, from making
any business decision of the firm, including the making of obligations or the disbursing of funds.
(2) The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) must possess the power to direct or
cause the direction of the management and policies of the firm and to make day-to-day as well as
long-term decisions on management, policy, operations and work.
(3) The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) may delegate various areas of the
management or daily operations of the firm to persons who are not Socially and Economically
Disadvantaged. Such delegations of authority must be revocable, and the Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) must retain the power to hire and fire any such person.
The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) must actually exercise control over the
firm's operations, work, management and policy.
(4) The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) must have an overall understanding of,
and managerial and technical competence, experience and Expertise directly related to, the firm's
operations and work. The Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) must have the
ability to intelligently and critically evaluate information presented by other participants in the
firm's activities and to make independent decisions concerning the firm's daily operations, work,
management, and policymaking.
(5) If federal, state and/or local laws, regulations or statutes require the owner(s) to have a particular
license or other credential to own and/or control a certain type of firm, then the Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) must possess the required license or credential. If state
law, County ordinance or other law regulations or statute does not require that the owner possess
the license or credential, that the owner(s) lacks such license or credential is a factor, but is not
dispositive, in determining whether the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s)
actually controls the firm.
(6) A Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner cannot engage in outside employment or
other business interests that conflict with the management of the firm or prevent the owner from
devoting sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the firm to manage and control its
day-to-day activities.
(d) Only an independent firm may be certified as an MBE or WBE. An independent firmPerson is one
whose viability does not depend on its relationship with another firmPerson, and who has the capacity
or ability to successfully undertake and complete the relevant work. Recognition of an applicant as a
separate entity for tax or corporate purposes is not necessarily sufficient to demonstrate that a firm is
independent and non-Affiliated. In determining whether an applicant is an independent Business, the
CC Director will:
(1) Scrutinize relationships with non-Certified Firms in such areas as personnel, facilities,
equipment, financial and/or bonding support, and other resources.

Page 67 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(2) Consider whether present or recent employer/employee relationships between the Socially and
Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) of the applicant and non-Certified Firms or persons
associated with non-Certified Firms compromise the applicant's independence.
(3) Examine the applicant's relationships with non-Certified Firms to determine whether a pattern of
exclusive or primary dealings with non-Certified Firm compromises the applicant's
independence.
(4) Consider the consistency of relationships between the applicant and non-Certified Firms with
normal industry practice.
(e) The CCD shall certify only Persons that meet all the above criteria. An applicant shall be certified only
for specific types of work in which the Socially and Economically Disadvantaged owner(s) has the
ability and Expertise to manage and control the firmperson's operations and work.
(f) The County shall certify the eligibility of Joint Ventures involving MBEs or WBEs and non-Certified
Firms, provided that the Joint Venture meets the criteria for certification as an MBE or WBE. To be
considered an eligible Joint Venture, at least one partner of the Joint Venture must be a Certified Firm,
with a share in the capital contribution, control, management, risks, and profits of the Joint Venture
which is equal to its ownership interest. Each Certified Firm partner must contribute property, capital,
efforts, skill and knowledge and be responsible for a distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the
contract. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions of the
relationships between the partners and their relationship and responsibility to the contract.
(g) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CC Director by rule may accept formal certifications by
other entities as meeting the requirements of the Program, if the CC Director determines that the
certification standards of such entities are comparable to those of the County.
(h) The certification status of all MBEs and WBEs shall be reviewed periodically by the Office of
Contract Compliance. Failure of the firm to seek recertification by filing the necessary documentation
with the CC Director as provided by rule may result in decertification.
(i)

It is the responsibility of the Certified Firm to notify the CC Director of any change in its
circumstances affecting its continued eligibility for the Program, including decertification by another
agency. Failure to do so may result in the firm's decertification.

(j)

The CC Director shall decertify a firm that does not continuously meet the eligibility criteria.

(k) Disqualification pursuant to Division 4 of the Procurement Code shall create a prima facie case for
decertification by the County. The challenged PCE shall have the burden of proving that its County
certification should be maintained.
(kl)

Decertification by another agency shall create a prima facie case for decertification by the County.
The challenged firm shall have the burden of proving that its County certification should be
maintained.

Page 68 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(lm) A firm that has been denied certification or recertification or has been decertified may protest the
denial or decertification as provided by rule.by submitting a petition for review in a proceeding made
pursuant to Part I, Chapter 2, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, and the Administrative Rules
promulgated thereunder.
(mn)A firm found to be ineligible may not apply for certification for six monthsone year after the effective
date of the final decision.
(no) A third party may challenge the eligibility of an applicant for certification or a Certified Firm as
provided by rule. Such challenges shall be signed and sworn by the individual challenging the
eligibility of an applicant for certification or a certified form. The burden of proof shall rest with the
complainant. Such challenges to eligibility shall be subject to an appeal. The CC Director shall be the
final arbiter of all challenges. The presumption that the challenged firm is eligible shall remain in
effect until the CC Director renders a final decision.
Sec. 34-294. Annual aspirational goals.
The Annual Aspirational Goals for the utilization of MBEs and WBEs on County Public Works
contracts and subcontracts shall be 24 percent for MBEs and ten percent for WBEs.
Sec. 34-295. Project specific goals.
The CC Director, in consultation with the User Department, shall establish Project Specific Goals for
construction Contracts based upon the availability of at least three MBEs and three WBEs to perform the
anticipated subcontracting functions of the project and the County's utilization of MBEs and WBEs to date.
Sec. 34-296. Counting MBE and WBE participation.
(a) The entire amount of that portion of a contract that is performed by the MBE's or WBE's own forces
shall be counted, including the cost of supplies and materials obtained by the MBE or WBE for the
work on the contract, and supplies purchased or equipment leased by the MBE or WBE (except
supplies and equipment the MBE or WBE purchases or leases from the prime Contractor or the prime
Contractor's Affiliate).
(b) The entire amount of fees or commissions charged by an MBE or WBE for providing a bona fide
service, such as professional, technical, consultant or managerial services, or for providing bonds or
insurance specifically required for the performance of a contract, shall be counted, provided the fee is
reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily charged for similar services.
(c) When an MBE or WBE performs as a participant in a Joint Venture, only the portion of the total dollar
value of the contract equal to the distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the Joint Venture's
contract that is performed by the MBE or WBE with its own forces and for which it is separately at
risk, shall be counted.
(d) Only expenditures to an MBE or WBE that is performing a Commercially Useful Function shall be
counted. To determine whether an MBE or WBE is performing a Commercially Useful Function, the

Page 69 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

County will evaluate the amount of work subcontracted, industry practices, whether the amount the
MBE or WBE is to be paid under the contract is commensurate with the work it is actually performing
and other relevant factors. To perform a Commercially Useful Function, the MBE or WBE must be
responsible, with respect to materials and supplies used on the contract, for negotiating price,
determining quality and quantity, ordering the material, installing (where applicable) and paying for
the material itself. An MBE or WBE does not perform a Commercially Useful Function if its role is
limited to that of an extra participant in the contract through which funds are passed in order to obtain
the appearance of MBE or WBE participation. If an MBE or WBE subcontracts a greater portion of the
work of a contract than would be expected based on normal industry practice, it is presumed not to
perform a Commercially Useful Function. When an MBE or WBE is presumed not to be performing a
Commercially Useful Function, the Certified Firm may present evidence to rebut this presumption.
(e) One hundred percent of the cost of the materials or supplies obtained from an MBE or WBE
Manufacturer or Regular Dealer shall be counted. One hundred percent of the fees or transportation
charges for the delivery of materials or supplies required on a job site shall be counted only if the
payment of such fees is a customary industry practice and are commensurate with fees customarily
charged for similar services.
(f)

One hundred percent of the cost of the supplies, equipment or goods obtained from a PCE
Manufacturer shall be counted.

(fg) Sixty percent of the cost of the supplies, equipment or goods obtained from a PCE Distributor or
Regular Dealer shall be counted.
(fh)If a firm ceases to be a Certified Firm for any other reason than graduation from the M/WBE
Construction Program during its performance on a contract, the dollar value of work performed under
a contract with that firm after it has ceased to be certified shall not be counted.
(gi) In determining achievement of Project Specific Goals, the participation of an MBE or WBE shall not
be counted until that amount has been paid to the MBE or WBE.
Sec. 34-297. Contract pre-award compliance procedures.
(a) For all solicitations, the bidder/proposer shall submit a Utilization Plan detailing all subcontractors
from which the Contractor solicited bids or quotations, and if Project Specific Goals have been
established, its achievement of the Goals or its Good Faith Efforts to do so. The Utilization Plan shall
be due at the time the bid/proposal is due.
(b) Any agreement between a Contractor and an MBE or WBE in which the Contractor requires that the
MBE or WBE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors is prohibited.
(c) Where the Contractor cannot achieve the Project Specific Goal(s), the CC Director will determine
whether the Contractor has made Good Faith Efforts to meet the Goal(s). In making this determination,
the Director will consider, at a minimum, the Contractor's efforts to:

Page 70 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(1) Solicit through all reasonable and available means (e.g., attendance at pre-bid meetings,
advertising and written notices) the interest of all MBEs and WBEs certified in the scopes of work
of the contract. The Contractor shall provide interested MBEs and WBEs with timely, adequate
information about the plans, specifications, and requirements of the contract to allow MBEs and
WBEs to respond to the solicitation. The Contractor must follow up initial solicitations with
interested MBEs and WBEs.
(2) Select portions of the work to be performed by MBEs and WBEs in order to increase the
likelihood that the Project Specific Goals will be achieved. This includes, where appropriate,
breaking out contract work items into economically feasible units to facilitate MBE and WBE
participation, even when the Contractor would otherwise prefer to perform these work items with
its own forces. It is the Contractor's responsibility to make a portion of the work available to
MBEs and WBEs and to select those portions of the work or material needs consistent with the
availability [of] MBEs and WBEs to facilitate their participation.
(3) Negotiate in good faith with interested MBEs and WBEs. Evidence of such negotiation includes
the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of MBEs and WBEs that were contacted; a
description of the information provided regarding the plans and specifications for the work
selected for subcontracting; and why agreements could not be reached with MBEs and WBEs.
The Contractor may not reject MBEs and WBEs as being unqualified without sound reasons
based on a thorough investigation of their capabilities. That there may be some additional costs
involved in finding and using MBEs and WBEs is not in itself sufficient reason for a Contractor's
failure to meet the Project Specific Goals, as long as such costs are reasonable. The ability or
desire of a Contractor to perform the work of a contract with its own organization does not relieve
it of the responsibility to make Good Faith Efforts on all scopes of work that could be
subcontracted.
(4) Make efforts to assist interested MBEs and WBEs in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, or
insurance as required by the County or the prime Contractor, where appropriate.
(5) Make efforts to assist interested MBEs and WBEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies,
materials, or related assistance or services, where appropriate.
(6) Use the services of the Office of Contract Compliance, available minority/women community
organizations, minority/women contractors' groups, government-sponsored minority/women
business assistance offices and other appropriate organizations to provide assistance in the
recruitment and placement of MBEs and WBEs.
(d) In determining whether a Contractor has made Good Faith Efforts, the performance of other
Contractors in meeting the Project Specific Goals may be considered. For example, when the apparent
successful Contractor fails to meet the Project Specific Goals but others meet it, it may be reasonably
questioned whether, with additional reasonable efforts, the apparent successful Contractor could have
met the Project Specific Goals. Similarly, if the apparent successful Contractor fails to meet the Project
Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average MBE or WBE participation obtained by other
Contractors, this may be evidence that the apparent successful Contractor made Good Faith Efforts.

Page 71 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(e) A signed letter of intent from each listed MBE or WBE, describing the work, materials, equipment or
services to be performed or provided by the MBE or WBE and the agreed upon dollar value shall be
due at the time of bid proposal or within three days after such submission.
(f) The CC Director shall timely review the Utilization Plan before award, including the scope of work
and the letters of intent from MBEs and WBEs. The CC Director may request clarification in writing
of items listed in the Utilization Plan, provided such clarification shall not include the opportunity to
augment listed participation or Good Faith Efforts.
(g) If the CC Director determines that the Utilization Plan demonstrates that the Project Specific Goals
have been achieved or Good Faith Efforts made, with the concurrence of the User Department, the CC
Director and User Department shall recommend award to Purchasing Agent.
(h) If the CC Director finds that a Contractor did not make sufficient Good Faith Efforts, the CC Director
shall communicate this finding to the Purchasing Department and recommend that the bid/proposal be
rejected. A Contractor may protest this determination pursuant to the County's bid protest procedures.
Sec. 34-298. Contract administration procedures.
(a) Upon award of a contract by the County that includes Project Specific Goals, the Project Specific
Goals become covenants of performance by the Contractors and incorporated in the contract.
(b) The Contractor shall provide a listing of all subcontractors to be used in the performance of the
contract, and detailed subcontractor information to the County with each request for payment
submitted to the County or as otherwise directed by the County. The CC Director and the User
Department shall monitor subcontractor participation during the course of the contract. The County
shall have full and timely access to the Contractor's books and records, including, without limitation,
payroll records, tax returns and records and books of account, to determine the Contractor's
compliance with its commitment to MBE and WBE participation and the status of any MBE or WBE
performing any portion of the contract. This provision shall be in addition to, and not a substitute for,
any other provision allowing inspection of the Contractor's records by any officer or official of the
County for any purpose.
(c) The Contractor cannot make changes to the Utilization Plan or substitute MBEs or WBEs named in the
Utilization Plan without the prior written approval of the CC Director, Purchasing Agent and the User
Department. Unauthorized changes or substitutions shall be a violation of this subdivision and a
breach of contract, and may constitute grounds for rejection of the bid or proposal or cause termination
of the executed contract for breach, the withholding of payment and/or subject the Contractor to
contract penalties or other sanctions.
(1) All requests for changes or substitutions of an MBE or WBE Subcontractor(s) named in the
Utilization Plan shall be made to the CC Director, Purchasing Agent and the User Department in
writing, and shall clearly and fully set forth the basis for the request. A Contractor shall not
substitute an MBE or WBE subcontractor or perform the work designated for an MBE or WBE
subcontractor with its own forces unless and until the CC Director, Purchasing Agent in
consultation with the User Department, approves such substitution in writing. A Contractor shall

Page 72 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

not allow a substituted subcontractor to begin work until the Director, Purchasing Agent and the
User Department have approved the substitution.
(2) The facts supporting the request must not have been known nor reasonably should have been
known by either party before the submission of the Utilization Plan. Bid shopping is prohibited.
The Contractor must negotiate with the MBE or WBE subcontractor to resolve the problem.
Where there has been a mistake or disagreement about the scope of work, the MBE or WBE can
be substituted only where an agreement cannot be reached for a reasonable price for the correct
scope of work.
(3) Substitutions of the subcontractor shall be permitted only on the following bases:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)

Unavailability after receipt of reasonable notice to proceed.
Failure of performance.
Financial incapacity.
Refusal by the subcontractor to honor the bid or proposal price.
Mistake of fact or law about the elements of the scope of work of a solicitation where
agreement upon a reasonable price cannot be reached.
(vi) Failure of the subcontractor to meet insurance, licensing or bonding requirements; or
(vii) The subcontractor's withdrawal of its bid or proposal.

(4) The final decision whether to permit or deny the proposed substitution, and the basis of any
denial, shall be communicated to the parties in writing by the CC Director.
(5) Where the Contractor has established the basis for the substitution to the satisfaction of the
County, the Contractor shall make Good Faith Efforts to fulfill the Utilization Plan. The
Contractor may seek the assistance of the Office of Contract Compliance in obtaining a new MBE
or WBE. If the Project Specific Goal(s) cannot be reached and Good Faith Efforts have been
made, the Contractor may substitute with a non-Certified Firm.
(6) If the County requires the substitution of an MBE or WBE subcontractor listed in the Utilization
Plan, the Contractor shall undertake Good Faith Efforts to fulfill the Utilization Plan. The
Contractor may seek the assistance of the Office of Contract Compliance in obtaining a new MBE
or WBE subcontractor. If the Goal(s) cannot be reached and Good Faith Efforts have been made,
the Contractor may substitute with a non-Certified Firm.
(d) If a Contractor plans to hire a subcontractor on any scope of work that was not previously disclosed in
the Utilization Plan, the Contractor shall obtain the approval of the CC Director to modify the
Utilization Plan and must make Good Faith Efforts to ensure that MBEs and WBEs have a fair
opportunity to bid on the new scope of work.
(e) Changes to the scopes of work shall be documented by the User Department at the time they arise to
establish the reasons for the change and the effect on achievement of the MBE or WBE goal.
(f) Prior to contract closeout, the CC Director shall evaluate the Contractor's fulfillment of the contracted
goals, taking into account all approved substitutions, terminations and changes to the contract's scope

Page 73 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

of work. If the County determines that Good Faith Efforts to meet the MBE or WBE commitments
were not made, or that fraudulent misrepresentations have been made, or any other breach of the
contract or violation of this subdivision, a remedy or sanction may be imposed, as provided in the
contract.
Sec. 34-299. Sanctions and penalties.
(a) The following violations of this subdivision may result in a breach of contract:
(1) Providing false or misleading information to the County in connection with submission of a bid,
responses to requests for qualifications or proposals, Good Faith Efforts documentation,
post-award compliance, or other Program operations.
(2) Committing any other violations of this subdivision.
(b) A Contractor or subcontractor is subject to withholding of payments under the contract, termination of
the contract for breach, contract penalties, or being barred or deemed nonresponsive in future County
solicitations and contracts as determined by the County's Purchasing Agent, if it is found to have:
(1) Provided false or misleading information in connection with an application for certification or
recertification or colluded with others to do so;
(2) Provided false or misleading information in connection with the submission of a bid or proposal
or documentation of Good Faith Efforts, post-award compliance, or other Program operations or
colluded with others to do so;
(3) Failed in bad faith to fulfill Project Specific Goals, thereby materially breaching the contract; or
(4) Failed to comply in good faith with substantive provisions of this subdivision.
Sec. 34-300. Program review and sunset.
(a) The President and the Board of Commissioners shall receive quarterly and annual reports from the CC
Director detailing the County's performance under the Program.
(b) The President and the Board of Commissioners will review these reports, including the Annual
Participation Goals and the County's progress towards meeting those Goals and eliminating
discrimination in its contracting activities and marketplace.
(c) Within five years after the effective date of this ordinance, the County will review the operation of the
Program and the evidentiary basis for the Program in order to determine whether the County has a
continuing compelling interest in remedying discrimination against MBEs and WBEs in its
construction marketplace, and the permissible scope of any narrowly tailored remedies to redress
discrimination against MBEs or WBEs so that the County will not function as a passive participant in
a discriminatory marketplace.

Page 74 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(d) This subdivision shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.
DIVISION 9. CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
Sec. 34-301. Contracts.
(a) Purpose. The purpose of this Division is to ensure that Contracts in an amount of $1,000,000.00 or
more are performed in accordance with the Contract terms.
(b) Applicability. This Division shall only apply to Contracts of $1,000,000.00 or more.
(c) Funding. The extent to which this division shall be implemented shall be limited to the availability of
funding. The Board encourages the County to seek out any available grant funding for this initiative.
Sec. 34-302. Information to be contained in contracts.
All Contracts over $1,000,000.00 should contain, but not be limited to, the following information, as
applicable:
(a) Clearly state the specifications, contract period, allowable renewals or extension periods, and
procedures for amendments or changes;
(b) Provide for specific measurable deliverables and reporting requirements, including due dates;
(c) Describe any payment schedules and escalation factors;
(d) Contain performance standards;
(e) Tie payments to the acceptance of deliverables or the final product;
(f) Contain all standard or required clauses as published in an RFP. Order of precedence should be
addressed in case of a discrepancy between the RFP and the Contract;
(g) Contain appropriate signatures, approvals, acknowledgements, or witnesses; and
(h) Be reviewed and approved as to form by an attorney from the Cook County State's Attorney's
Office prior to execution.
Sec. 34-303. Contract mManagement forof contracts.
(a) Using Agency responsibilities are as follows:
(1) Designate one or more individuals as the "Contract Manager" with the knowledge, skills, ability
and time to monitor the Contract;
(2) The CPO may provide staff to assist the Using Agency in complying with this division.

Page 75 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(b) Contract Manager's duties:
(1) Monitor performance of the Contract in accordance with its terms;
(2) Track budgets and compare invoices and charges to contract terms and conditions;
(3) Document the timeliness and acceptance or rejection of deliverables and initiate appropriate
action to enforce the Contract terms; and
(4) Evaluate and document compliance with Contract requirements on a periodic basis during the
term of the Contract and submit to the CPO.
(c) CPO's duties:
(1) Create uniform evaluation forms for use by Contract Managers, to evaluate the extent to which
the Contractor satisfied the Contract terms;
(2) Establish appropriate procedures to ensure that evaluations are utilized in determining whether a
Bidder or Proposer is Responsible; provided, however, that evaluations made only within the past
three years shall be considered;
(3) Assist Using Agencies in obtaining training through the National Contract Managers Association,
Institute of Supply Management or National Institute of Government Purchasing standards, for
Contract Managers.
Secs. 34-304—34-309. Reserved.
DIVISION 10. INVOICES FOR SERVICES RENDERED
Sec. 34-310. Invoices required for all service contracts.
(a) Work Performed. All Contracts for services, regardless of compensation structure, shall contain a
provision requiring the Contractor to maintain and submit for review upon request by the Using
Agency, itemized records indicating the dates that services were provided, a detailed description of the
work performed on each such date, and the amount of time spent performing work on each such date.
(b) Expenses. Contracts for services shall also require Contractors to submit documentation of the types
and amounts of expenses incurred related to the work performed if the Contractor seeks
reimbursement for any such expenses incurred.
(c) Invoice Documentation. All Contracts for services, regardless of compensation structure, shall contain
a provision requiring the Contractor to submit itemized records indicating the dates or time period in
which the services being invoiced were provided, a detailed description of the work performed for the
time period being invoiced and the amount of time spent performing work for the time period in
question. In addition, all Contracts for services that are procured as Sole Source must also contain a
provision requiring the Contractor to submit itemized records indicating the dates that services were

Page 76 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

provided, a detailed description of the work performed on each such date, and the amount of time spent
performing work on each such date.
(d) Payment. All Contracts for services shall further require that the itemized work and expense records
required in Section 34-310(b) and (c) be submitted to the Using Agency with the Contractor's invoice
as a condition of payment for any services rendered.
Sec. 34-311. No payment prior to submission of invoice.
The Comptroller shall not issue a payment to any Contractor providing services who has not submitted
the requisite invoice with work and expense records unless the Contractor has been approved for advance
payment per the Contract. The Comptroller shall not issue an advance payment to any Contractor providing
services unless the invoice includes written authorization from the Using Agency documenting the
contractual basis for the advance payment. Contractors approved for advance payment shall be required to
submit invoices providing work and expense records as described above in Section 34-310 on at least a
monthly basis.
Secs. 34-312—34-365. Reserved.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 FEES,
Section 32.1 FEE SCHEDULE, of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32.1. Fee Schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:
Code Section
Description
CHAPTER 34, FINANCE
34-283(a)34-265
M/WBE Certification/Recertification Fee
34-283(b)34-291
M/WBE Certification/Recertification Fee

Fees, Rates, Charges (in dollars)
250.00
100.00250.00

Effective date: This ordinance amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

14-1367
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Office of the President
Other Part(ies): City of Chicago and the Chicago Transit Authority
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute

Page 77 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Transit Authority, the City of
Chicago and Cook County where the City of Chicago (“City”) agrees to tender $3,000,000.00 of the City's
motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority and Cook County (“County”) agrees to tender
$2,000,000.00 from Cook County's motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Agreed Contribution shall be tendered to the Chicago Transit Authority on or
before 12/31/2014.
Fiscal Impact: $2,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund
Summary: Per the Regional Transportation Authority Act, 70 ILCS 3615/1, et seq., and per the request
of the Chicago Transit Authority, authorization is hereby requested to enter into and execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement between the Cook County, the City of Chicago and the Chicago Transit
Authority.
Pursuant to the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement, the City of Chicago (“City”) agrees to tender
$3,000,000.00 of the City's motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority and Cook County
(“County”) agrees to tender to the Chicago Transit Authority $2,000,000.00 from Cook County's motor
fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority. The agreed contribution by the City and the County are
to be remitted to the Chicago Transit Authority prior to 12/31/2014; said funds tendered are to be used by
the Chicago Transit Authority for public transportation purposes.
It is hereby requested that that the Cook County Board President be authorized to execute the Proposed
Intergovernmental Agreement and that the Cook County Comptroller be authorized to tender the
County’s agreed contribution from the motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority in
accordance with the terms of the Intergovernmental Agreement.
This agreement has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s
Office.

14-1446
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Assistant State’s Attorney Daniel F. Gallagher
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Medical Examiner’s Advisory Committee
Effective date: Immediate

Page 78 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Expiration date: Not applicable. Appointment pursuant to the requirement that the Medical
Examiner’s Advisory Committee contain at least one (1) attorney from the Cook County State’s
Attorney’s Office.

14-1448
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): The Honorable Nicholas J. Helmer
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Land Bank Authority Board of Directors
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/1/2017, or until a successor is appointed
Summary: Reappointment pursuant to the requirement that the Land Bank Authority Board contain three
(3) Suburban Cook County Mayors, Presidents or Village Managers

14-1449
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Darrius Lightfoot
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6/30/2014, or until a successor is appointed

14-1451
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Rhoda Sweeney

Page 79 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 3/12/2018, or until a successor is appointed

14-1453
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Hedy Ratner
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Human Rights
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 7/1/2015, or until a successor is appointed. Ms. Ratner will fill the vacancy of Shelley
Davis

14-1508
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Joseph Ford
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: South Stickney Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/1/2014, or until a successor is appointed. Mr. Ford will fill the vacancy of George
Gustafson.

Page 80 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

COMMISSIONERS

14-0877
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION REGARDING IMPLEMENTATION OF A FLY QUIET PROGRAM AT
O’HARE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AND CREATION OF A FEDERAL FLY QUIET ACT
WHEREAS, certain communities on the Northwest Side of the City of Chicago and nearby suburbs
reside underneath the key nighttime air routes, including five glide paths and two major take-off plates,
which converge over the community and are used after 10 p.m.; and
WHEREAS, these communities seek a solution to the nighttime sleep interruptions during the hours of
10 p.m. and 7 a.m., including the shoulder hours; and
WHEREAS, these communities are experiencing higher levels of jet noise, especially during the phase 1
nighttime flight operations; and
WHEREAS, the current fly quiet program needs to be reevaluated for the purposes of instilling and
sharing the primary purpose of flight and community partnership at O’Hare International Airport with all
of the collar communities;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby urge the Federal Aeronautics Administration and O’Hare International Airport authorities to
decrease jet noise over the communities of Northwest Chicago and nearby suburbs by establishing a
full-time fly quiet program and urge the creation and passage of a federal homeowner’s aviation fly quiet
act; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this resolution be delivered to each member of the
Illinois congressional delegation.

14-1421
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, JOHN P. DALEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, STANLEY
MOORE, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, PETER N. SILVESTRI and ROBERT STEELE, County
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE TOBACCO DEALER’S ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits , and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article V, Tobacco Dealers, Part I, General Ordinances,
Sections 54-300 through 54-305 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Page 81 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Sec. 54-300. Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Youth Tobacco Control Ordinance.
Sec. 54-301. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Distribute means to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue or offer to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue, or
cause or hire any person to give, sell, deliver, dispense, issue or offer to give, sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
Electronic cigarette means any electronically activated device which in operation causes the user to exhale
any smoke, vapor, or other substance other than those produced by unenhanced human exhalation.
Electronic cigarette includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an
electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or
under any other product name or descriptor. The term electronic cigarette does not include any asthma
inhaler or other device that has been specifically approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration.
Licensee means any person obtaining a tobacco product retailer's license under this article.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, estate, trust,
trustee, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America, the
State of Illinois, and any political subdivision thereof.
Photographic identification means any officially issued card containing the bearer's date of birth that
includes a photograph of the person seeking to purchase tobacco products and that is accepted as proof of
age under Illinois law.
Point of sale means a store, stand, building, boat, vending machine or any other separate place of business
maintained by a seller from which tobacco products are made available for sale or distribution to
consumers. Point of sale does not include separate cash registers or service counters within a store or other
place of business.
Public place means any area to which the public is invited or permitted.
Retailer means any person who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal consumption, or who
operates a facility containing vending machines that dispense tobacco products or self-service displays of
tobacco products in unincorporated Cook County.
Tavern means an enclosed place of business kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as
a place that primarily serves alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises and in which providing
entertainment or the serving of food is only incidental or secondary to the sale of alcoholic beverages for
immediate consumption. Examples of places of business not deemed to be taverns within the definitions of

Page 82 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

this paragraph include, but are not limited to, restaurants, catering halls, bowling alleys, billiard parlors,
discotheques, theaters and arenas.
Tobacco product sample means a tobacco product distributed to members of the general public at no cost or
at nominal cost for purposes of promoting the product.
Tobacco products means any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but not limited to cigarettes,
cigars, snuff, smoking tobacco, and/or smokeless tobacco.
Vending machine means any mechanical, electronic or self-service device which upon insertion of money,
tokens or any other form of payment, automatically dispenses tobacco products.
Sec. 54-302. Jurisdiction.
This article applies to retailers of tobacco products in unincorporated Cook County, including any person
who sells tobacco products to individuals for personal consumption or who operates a facility containing
vending machines which dispense tobacco products or self-service displays of tobacco products.
Sec. 54-303. Enforcement and administration; penalties.
(a) Duties of Department of Public Health.
(1)

The Department of Public Health shall be responsible for the enforcement and
administration of this article.

(2)

The Department of Public Health shall conduct random, unannounced inspections at
locations where tobacco products are sold, including tobacco vending machines, to ensure
compliance with this article.

(3)

The Department of Public Health shall promulgate reasonable rules and regulations
consistent with this article to provide for the enforcement and administration of this article.
The rules and regulations shall establish procedures for administrative action against those
who violate this article and for a method of administrative adjudication of the violation or
violations.

(4)

Any rules or regulations promulgated under this article shall be filed in the Department of
Public Health's principal office and shall be made available for public inspection. Copies
shall be made available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee as determined by the
Department to cover the cost of providing the copy.

(b) Penalties.
(1)

The Department of Public Health shall impose a fine upon any person who violates the
provisions of Section 54-305. Each instance in which Section 54-305 is violated shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Penalties imposed shall include the following:

Page 83 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

a.

For a first violation, an administrative penalty of $250.00;

b.

For a second violation, occurring after a final determination of liability for a first
violation, and within a 12-month period, an administrative penalty of $500.00 and
a suspension of the license of the retail tobacco dealer for 30 days;

c.

For a third violation, occurring after a final determination of liability for a second
violation and within a 12-month period, an administrative penalty of $1,000.00
and a revocation of the license of the retail tobacco dealer for one year.

(2)

The Department of Public Health shall impose a $500.00 fine upon any person who sells
tobacco products without a license as required by Section 54-304(a) or after a license
issued pursuant to this article has been suspended. Each instance in which a person sells
tobacco products in violation of Section 54-304(a) shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.

(3)

In addition to imposing the fines and other penalties provided by this article, the
Department of Public Health may request the State's Attorney to make application on
behalf of the County to the Circuit Court of Cook County for an injunction requiring
compliance with the provisions of this article or for such order as the court may deem
necessary or appropriate to secure such compliance. The State's Attorney may then
institute such proceedings on behalf of the Country as provided by law.

(c) Judicial review. A person may seek a writ of certiorari from the Chancery Division of the Circuit Court
of Cook County according to applicable law, appealing any final determination of liability or decision of
the Department of Public Health under this article.
Sec. 54-304. Licensing of tobacco product retailers.
(a) License requirement. No person shall engage in the retail sale of tobacco products or operate a facility
containing vending machines that dispense tobacco products unless the person is authorized to do so by a
license issued pursuant to this article, or is an employee or agent of a person who has been issued a license
pursuant to this article. A separate license must be obtained for each point of sale maintained by the retailer.
The license to sell tobacco products shall be displayed prominently at the point of sale for which it is issued.
(b) License administration. The Department of Public Health shall administer the licensing of retailers of
tobacco products and shall approve or deny all applications for licenses and revoke existing licenses
pursuant to this article.
(c) License application. An application for a tobacco retailer's license shall be filed in writing with the
Department of Public Health on a form provided by the Department. Each application for a license shall
contain the following:
(1)

The applicant's full name, the address and telephone number where the applicant is
engaged in the business of the retail sale of tobacco products and the name, address and
telephone number of the person authorized to receive notices issued pursuant to this article;

Page 84 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(2)

If the applicant is a corporation, the corporate name, the address and telephone number of
the principal place of business; the date and state of incorporation; the names of the
corporate officers and the name, address and telephone number of the person authorized to
receive notices issued pursuant to this article;

(3)

If the applicant is a partnership, the name, address and telephone number of the principal
place of business; the names of all partners; the name, address and telephone number of a
person authorized to receive notices issued pursuant to this article.

Any retailer whose license is revoked for violating this article shall be prohibited from obtaining a tobacco
retailer's license for one year.
(d) Licenses for tobacco product vending machines. The Department of Public Health shall issue an
adhesive self-voiding license emblem to be placed on each licensed tobacco product vending machine.
Each license emblem shall be coded to identify the retailer who has control over each tobacco product
vending machine. The license emblem shall bear the words County of Cook, Licensed Tobacco Product
Vending Machine. The license shall designate the period of time for which the license is valid, shall contain
a reproduction of the County seal along with the name of the County Board President; shall contain a space
for a brief description of the name, style and type of vending machine to be licensed; the location of the
vending machine and such other language as may be prescribed by the President of the County Board. A
replacement license emblem will not be issued unless the application for such replacement emblem is
accompanied by a police report of the incident in which the emblem to be replaced was lost, stolen or
mutilated, or unless the remnants of the emblem being replaced are submitted with the replacement
application.
(e) License term. Every retailer's license shall be issued for an annual period beginning January 1 and
ending December 31. Each license shall expire on the last day of the license year for which the license was
issued.
(f) License fee. The annual license fee for a retailer shall be as set out in Section 32-1 per license. If a
licensee operates more than one vending machine at the same premises, the licensee shall pay the annual
license fee set out in Section 32-1 for the first vending machine license and the amount set out in Section
32-1 for each additional vending machine license.
(g) License transfer prohibited. The transfer of any license issued under this article is prohibited. Any such
purported transfer is void.
Sec. 54-305. Prohibitions on sale or distribution of tobacco products.
(a) Underage tobacco sales.
(1)

No retailer may sell or distribute tobacco products or electronic cigarettes to any person
under 18 years of age.

Page 85 of 159

 Board of Commissioners
(2)

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Each retailer shall request and examine the photographic identification of any person
purchasing tobacco products or electronic cigarettes so as to verify that the purchaser is
over 18 years of age. No such verification is required for any person who appears without
reasonable doubt to be over the age of 27.

(b) Sale of tobacco products other than in sealed packages. No retailer may break or otherwise open any
cigarette or smokeless tobacco package to sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of unpackaged
cigarettes that is smaller than the minimum cigarette package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of
cigarette tobacco or smokeless tobacco that is smaller than the smallest package distributed by the
manufacturer for individual consumer use.
(c) Distribution of tobacco product samples prohibited. No person shall give away, barter, exchange,
distribute or in any way dispense free of charge or at nominal cost any tobacco product samples, and/or any
coupon redeemable for any tobacco products or electronic cigarettes, on any public street, alley, sidewalk,
or in any public park, ground or playground, or in areas open to the public in any publicly owned or
operated building or at any place located within 500 feet of any building or other location used primarily as
a school, child care facility, or for the education or recreation of children under 18 years of age.
(d) Prohibited locations. No retailer shall sell or distribute tobacco products or electronic cigarettes at any
place located within 500 feet of any building or other location used primarily as a school, child care facility,
or for the education or recreation of children under 18 years of age. This prohibition shall not apply to those
businesses engaged in the retail sale of tobacco products at a location that would otherwise be prohibited by
this article that were in existence prior to passage of this article. This exemption shall apply to any new
owner at the same location providing the same service.
(e) Restrictions on tobacco product vending machines.
(1)

No retailer shall sell or distribute tobacco products through a vending machine unless the
vending machine is located:
a. In an area of factories, businesses, offices, private clubs and other places not open to
the public; or
b. In taverns.

(2)

Tobacco products may be sold or distributed by a tobacco product vending machine in a
tavern only in the following ways:
a. The tobacco product vending machine must be placed at a distance of a minimum of 25
feet from any entrance to the premises; and
b. The tobacco product vending machine must be directly visible by the owner or the
lessee of the premises, or the licensee's employee or agent during the operation of such
vending machine.

Page 86 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(f) Posting of warning to minors. Every retailer of tobacco products shall place and maintain, in legible
condition, at each point of sale of tobacco products to consumers, including the front of each vending
machine, a sign stating:
Warning
It is a Violation of the Law For Cigarettes Or Other Tobacco Products To Be Sold To Any Person Under
The Age of 18.
The sign shall not be less than eight inches by 11 inches in size, except for a sign placed on the front of a
vending machine. The sign for a vending machine shall not be less than four inches by four inches in size.
The text of such printed card shall be in red letters on a white background, said letters to be at least one inch
high.
(g) Self-service sales prohibited. It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, give away, or display tobacco
products for sale at any location where the consumer can acquire those products through self-service. All
tobacco products and electronic cigarettes will be displayed from behind a sales/service counter so that no
consumer can access tobacco products without assistance by an employee of the licensee. This restriction
shall not apply to customer self-service as described in Subsection (e) of this section, restrictions on tobacco
product vending machines.
(h) Minimum age to sell tobacco products. It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or permit any person
under 18 years of age to sell tobacco products or electronic cigarettes in any licensed premises.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

14-1481
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, County Commissioner and TONI PRECKWINKLE, President,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY INFORMATION SECURITY ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, technology and information resources in the various agencies and departments of Cook
County are strategic and vital assets belonging to the people of the County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government has a duty to its citizens to ensure that the information entrusted
to its agencies is safe, secure, and protected from unauthorized access, use, or destruction; and
WHEREAS, coordinated efforts are necessary to protect these assets against unauthorized access,
disclosure, use, and modification or destruction, whether accidental or deliberate, as well as to assure the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information; and

Page 87 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS, a strong information security framework must be coordinated, promulgated and
implemented throughout county agencies and departments, including the offices of the separately Elected
Officials, to ensure the development and maintenance of minimum information security controls to
protect technology and information resources that support the operations and assets of said agencies and
departments and to enable the County’s protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article I, In General, Division 1, Cook County Information Security, Sec. 2-8 through
2-14 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE I. In General
Division 1 Cook County Information Security
Sec. 2-8. Short title.
This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Security Ordinance.”
Sec. 2-9. Purpose and Policy.
All Elected Officials, Departments, Office Institutions or Agencies of Cook County (“County”),
including but not limited to the offices and departments under the jurisdiction of the County Board
President, the Board of Commissioners, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, Cook County State’s
Attorney, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Public Defender, Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook
County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County Clerk, Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Cook County
Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Board of Review, Cook County Public
Defender, Independent Inspector General, Veteran’s Assistance Commission and the Public
Administrator (collectively, "County Agency") shall take all reasonable precautions to protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of County information. Such precautions shall be in
accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and take into consideration industry
standards and best practices.
Sec. 2-10. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the meaning ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guideline means a recommendation to assist a County employee or County contractor in making
appropriate decisions or performing a particular task, which allows for latitude in interpretation and
implementation.
Plan means a comprehensive document that details strategic direction, which may also provide additional
details, such as Standards used and so forth.
Policy means a document that communicates leadership expectations to an organization or business unit,
which may also be considered as mandatory business rules or organization-specific directives and which
are communication of management intent.

Page 88 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Procedure means a document stating the manner in which a Policy shall be functionally implemented in a
County Agency’s environment, which may define specific operation steps, manual methods, or
instructions for compliance with a Policy.
Standard means a document that contains a specification or describes minimum implementation that
satisfies a Policy.
Sec. 2-11. Information Security Framework.
(a) Subject to the approval of the Cook County Chief Information Officer (“CIO”), the Bureau of
Technology’s Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) shall create comprehensive and written
information security Plans, Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines for the County and County
Agencies (collectively, the “Information Security Framework”) to reasonably protect the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of County information; all County Agencies shall collaborate with the CISO in
the creation of the Information Security Framework as requested.
(b) The Information Security Framework shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws
and regulations and take into consideration industry standards and best practices.
(c) The Information Security Framework shall include a risk management process, which the CISO shall
direct, to identify information security risks in County Agencies and deploy risk mitigation strategies,
processes, and procedures.
(d) The Information Security Framework shall include information security incident and breach response
Plans as a subset of information security.
Sec. 2-12. Adoption and Compliance
(a) The CIO and CISO shall publish and make available the Information Security Framework to all County
Agencies; said County Agencies shall adopt and comply with the Information Security Framework.
(b) County Agencies may deviate from the Information Security Framework based on their unique
requirements, but only upon receiving prior written approval from the CIO and CISO.
(c) County Agencies shall take all appropriate actions, including completing assigned training and if
warranted, initiating disciplinary action, to ensure their employees and contractors adopt and comply with
the Information Security Framework.
Sec. 2-13. Review, Remediation and Enforcement
(a) Annually the CISO shall review and approve the proposed information security Plans of each County
Agency to determine if such Plans are in conformance with the Information Security Framework or
properly deviated with prior written approval from the CIO and CISO.
(b) Annually the CISO shall review the status of County Agency adoption and compliance with the
Information Security Framework and timely report compliance related issues to the CIO.

Page 89 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(c) Where a County Agency has not fully adopted or complied with the Information Security Framework,
the CIO and CISO shall direct that County Agency to take the necessary remediation steps and other
measures required for adoption and to bring them into compliance.
(d) The CIO and CISO shall be authorized to take all appropriate actions to ensure and enforce
compliance with the Information Security Framework.
Sec. 2-14. Reporting and Exceptions.
(a) At least once each calendar year, the CISO through the CIO shall report to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on the Information Security Framework.
(b) At a minimum, the CISO’s annual report shall detail: (i) the status of all County Agencies’ adoption
and compliance with the Information Security Framework and (ii) a summary of all requests for
deviations from the Information Security Framework that the CISO has previously approved or rejected.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

14-1505
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ELECTRONIC COMPILED DATA ORDINANCE
Sec 2-207. Electronic Compiled Data
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article IV Officers and Employees, Division 3 Recorder of Deeds, Subdivision I General, Section 2-207
of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby created as follows:
Sec 2-207. Electronic Compiled Data
(a) This Section shall be known as and be cited as the “Electronic Compiled Data Ordinance.”
(b) The Office of the Recorder of Deeds is granted authority to enter into contractual agreements with
commercial and noncommercial entities or persons (hereinafter referred to as “Subscriber”) for the purpose
of providing access to Electronic Compiled Data from the Computerized Indexing System in accordance
with the provisions of 55 ILCS5/5-1106.1 and the terms set forth herein.
(c) The “Compiled Data” is data electronically aggregated from documents recorded in connection with
property transaction records individually available to the general public via the internet services of the
Office of the Recorder of Deeds but which has been aggregated in a compiled format that is not otherwise
maintained in regular course of business by the Office of the Recorder of Deeds.
(d) Access to Complied Data by Subscriber shall occur only upon execution of an Access Agreement.

Page 90 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

(e) The County and the Office of the Recorder of Deeds shall be held harmless and indemnified by
Subscriber for the compilation and use of the Compiled Data acquired pursuant to Access Agreements.
The County and Office of the Recorder of Deeds shall make no guarantee as to the accuracy of the
Complied Data and the same shall be provided “as is” without any warranty of any kind, express or implied,
including but not limited to, warranties of performance, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.
(f) Electronic Complied Data shall include:
1. Transfer Data: to which access shall occur only upon execution of an Access Agreement and
payment of the $400.00 annual subscription fee.
(g) All money collected by the Office of the Recorder of Deeds from the subscriptions for Compiled
Data shall be remitted to the County Treasurer within thirty days of receipt.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

14-1506
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner, TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook
County Board of Commissioners and JERRY BUTLER, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY
GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, EDWIN REYES, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION URGING CONGRESS TO DESIGNATE & RECOGNIZE THE HISTORIC
PULLMAN DISTRICT AS PART OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
WHEREAS, the historic community of Pullman on Chicago's far southeast side was a company-owned
town planned and built in the late 19th century by Chicago businessman and industrialist George M.
Pullman, founder of the Pullman Palace Car Company, and includes the area east of Cottage Grove
Avenue, from East 103rd Street to East 115th Street; and
WHEREAS, the Pullman community includes scores of restored historic homes and buildings, including
the Clock Tower Administration Building and Factory, where the Pullman luxury railroad passenger cars
were constructed, and the Hotel Florence, which was built as lodging for visiting businessmen and
dignitaries; both of these sites are now owned by the State of Illinois and maintained by the Illinois Historic
Preservation Agency; and
WHEREAS, Pullman's important role in the nation's history was recognized by the National Park
Service through its placement on the National Register of Historic Places in 1969 and its designation as a
National Historic Landmark in 1970; and

Page 91 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS, Pullman is renowned as one of America's first and most important model industrial towns
and for the seminal role this town played in the nation's urban planning, labor, transportation,
architectural, and African-American history; and
WHEREAS, the country's first African-American labor union, the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters,
was established and led by the legendary labor leader, A. Philip Randolph, and the men hired by the
Pullman Company to work as porters on his sleeping cars; this union was instrumental in the formation and
advancement of the African-American middle class in America; and
WHEREAS, the Pullman District was named a Chicago Landmark District on October 16, 1972; and
was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 8, 1969; and was declared a National
Historic Landmark on December 30, 1970; and
WHEREAS, on March 13, 2013, the Chicago City Council passed a resolution urging Congress to make
Pullman a National Historical Park or the President to declare it a National Monument; and
WHEREAS, the Lincoln Home National Historic Site in Springfield is currently the only National Park
designation in Illinois; and
WHEREAS, the United States House of Representatives introduced H.R. 3894 to authorize the
Secretary of the Interior to conduct a Special Resource Study of the Pullman Historic District to
determine the suitability and feasibility of designating the site as part of the National Park System; and
WHEREAS, a reconnaissance survey is now being undertaken by the National Park Service to evaluate
Pullman's significance, suitability, and feasibility as a potential unit of the National Park Service, which
would ensure that the historic structures are protected and accessible for all people to experience; and
WHEREAS, more than $26 million in State and federal funds have been invested in the Pullman State
Historic Site for acquisition and stabilization, and a national park designation would capitalize on this
investment; and
WHEREAS, as a National Historical Park, Pullman would be a unique gem to add to the City of
Chicago's remarkable and noteworthy destination sites for our tourism industry; and
WHEREAS, the local community is highly supportive of and would benefit from a revitalized and better
utilized site, with enhanced interpretive and educational programs at the Clock Tower Administration
Building and Factory and other buildings to teach about the significance of Pullman and the numerous
historic and cultural themes associated with it; and
WHEREAS, the Pullman State Historic Site is vital to the community's cultural and historical identity,
but remains underutilized and at risk for deferred maintenance; and
WHEREAS, National parks generate $31 billion for local economies each year and are shown to
invigorate neighborhood historic renovation and spur business growth in urban areas; and

Page 92 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS, the general consensus is that now is the time for immediate action to develop the site to
realize its full potential.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners urges Congress to pass a bill establishing Pullman as a National Historical Park or,
alternatively, call upon President Barack Obama to exercise his authority by executive order to designate
Pullman as a National Monument; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this resolution be delivered to the Illinois
Congressional Delegation, the U.S. National Park Service Director Jonathan Jarvis, and U.S. President
Barack Obama.
COMMITTEE REPORTS

14-1528
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
Committee Date: 2/18/2014

14-1346
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation
Committee Date: 2/18/2014

14-1341
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate & Business & Economic Development
Committee Date: 2/18/2014

14-1181
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance
Committee Date: 2/19/2014

Page 93 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1182
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Rules and Administration
Committee Date: 2/19/2014

14-1183
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Zoning and Building
Committee Date: 2/19/2014

14-1341
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate & Business & Economic Development
Committee Date: 2/18/2014

14-1346
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation
Committee Date: 2/19/2014

14-1403
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee Date: 2/19/2014

Page 94 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET MANAGEMENT SERVICES

14-1317
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget and Management Services
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bond Series Status Report
Report Period: 2013 Fiscal Year, 4th Quarter ending 11/30/2013
Summary: Submitting for you information, the Bond Series Status Report for the 2013 Fiscal Year, 4th
Quarter ending 11/30/2013, in accordance with FY 2013 Resolution Section Number 16.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

14-1349
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 12/26/2013 - 1/29/2014
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.

Page 95 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT

14-0299
Presented by: DEANNA ZALAS, Director, Department of Risk Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Risk Management
Vendor: Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Insurance Brokerage and Professional Services
Original Contract Period: 2/28/2011 - 2/27/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 2/28/2014 - 7/1/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$17,100,000.00

Original Approval: 3/1/2011, $16,500,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s): 6/19/2013, $600,000.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $8,951,243.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014 $7,102,028.00
Accounts: 542-258
Contract Number(s): 11-45-48
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: On 3/1/2011 the Cook County Board of Commissioners authorized the prior Purchasing
Agent to enter into a contract with Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc. for Insurance Brokerage and
Professional Services in an amount to not exceed $16,500,000.00 for a period of 2/28/2011 through
2/27/2014. Amendment #1 was approved on 6/19/2013 by the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
an increase in the amount of $600,000.00. The request for Amendment #2 represents an increase in
value of $8,951,243 to secure an Excess Municipal Liability Program, Excess Healthcare Professional

Page 96 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Liability Program and an Excess Property Insurance Program through 7/1/2015. The sixteen month time
frame is requested in order to align the policies with a July 1 inception date. This is the first extension
for time under this contract.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

14-1213
Presented by: CARL BYRD, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department:
Request:

Bureau of Administration

Receive and File

Report Period:

N/A

Summary: Policies and Procedures relative to Zipcar and Shared Fleet programs for Cook-County
employees.
Purpose
The Zipcar and Shared Fleet programs are part of a countywide effort to make transportation resources
convenient and accessible to Cook County employees while reducing transportation-related expenses.
Through a partnership with Zipcar Inc., participating employees will have access to vehicles located
throughout the County, as well as county-owned vehicles housed in the loop and at suburban county
facilities as needed to execute their County related duties. In this policy, you will find information
concerning eligibility, Department enrollment and responsibilities, vehicle access, program rules, and
penalties for violating program rules.
Eligibility
Eligible Travel Needs
Zipcars may be used for short-term, work-related travel not exceeding 4 hours on Monday through
Friday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any requests to use a Zipcar outside the allotted time must be
approved by the Department Vehicle Coordinator.
Shared Fleet cars may be used for work-related travel that is expected to exceed 4 hours; and/or needs to
be conducted during evenings after 7:00 p.m. or weekends; and/or in locations where Zipcars are not
accessible (i.e. the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center and the Department of Corrections). However,
if no Shared Fleet cars are available, the employee may reserve a Zipcar provided that the employee
submits a request with written justification in advance and his/her Vehicle Coordinator approves such
request.

Page 97 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Eligible Departments
Cook County departments and user agencies with employees who have to travel away from their
permanent work location for the purpose of conducting County business may enroll eligible drivers in
this program. Department Heads and using Agencies should be mindful of employees’ travel needs and
only enroll employees with a legitimate work related need and purpose.
Eligible Drivers
In order to be eligible to drive a Zipcar or Shared Fleet vehicle as part of this program, drivers must meet
all of the following criteria:
1. Driver must be a Cook County employee;
2. Driver must have a valid Illinois driver’s license;
3. Driver must be at least 21 years of age;
4. Driver must be approved to participate in this program by his/her Department Head; and
5. To drive a Zipcar, Driver must additionally meet Zipcar’s membership requirements, which
include but are not limited to having a driving record that meets the following requirements:
a. No more than two “incidents” (moving violations or accidents) in the past three years and no
more than one in the past 18 months;
b. No major violations (excessive speed 20 mph or more over speed limit; operating to endanger,
reckless driving, etc.; leaving the scene of an accident involving property damage; operating a
motor vehicle with a suspended or revoked license; speeding in a school zone or similar
events); and
c. No alcohol or drug related violations in the past seven years.
See, http://www.zipcar.com/chicago/apply/membership-requirements for details.
Department Enrollment & Responsibilities
Any department or using agency that would like to have Zipcar and Shared Fleet cars available to its
employees must register as a participating department or using agency before the employee may be
enrolled in the program.
The Department Head must appoint their Vehicle Coordinator to be the point of contact for all
administrative matters associated with this program.
The Vehicle Coordinator must contact the Bureau of Administration at (312) 603-3055 in order to create
an account and enroll employees as drivers.

Page 98 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Employee Enrollment
The Vehicle Coordinator may only enroll employees that are verified as “Eligible Drivers” per the
criteria listed above.
The Vehicle Coordinator must submit all approved employee requests to use Zipcars outside of the
allotted hours (Monday to Friday, between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.), with the employees’ written
justifications to the Bureau of Administration on a monthly basis.
Vehicle Access
Zipcar Access: Enrolled employees will receive a “Zipcard” that will be used to lock and unlock their
reserved vehicles, as well as a username and password to access www.Zipcar.com to make reservations.
Shared Fleet Access: Enrolled employees will receive a Shared Fleet vehicle access card that will be
used to lock and unlock their reserved vehicles, as well as a username and password to
accesscookcounty.fastfleet.net to make reservations.
Rules of the Program
General Rules:
1. Cars may not be used without a reservation.
2. Users must look-over the exterior and interior of their reserved vehicle and report any damage or
abnormality to the Zipcar or Shared Fleet toll free numbers listed on the access card prior to
beginning their trip.
3. Vehicles must be returned on time to the vehicle’s home location. Only the registered user who
reserved the vehicle may drive during the reservation time. The user who makes the reservation
will be held responsible for any damage to or violations against the vehicle during the reservation
time.
4. Cars may not be driven by anyone except the eligible driver who made the reservation.
5. Cellphone use of any kind is prohibited while driving.
6. Smoking in car is prohibited.
7. User must turn off the ignition when the vehicle is not in use.
8. If the vehicle gas tank is less than ¼ full, the user must re-fill the tank before returning the vehicle
and within the reservation time.
a. Zipcar: A Zipcar-provided gas card is available in the driver’s side visor. If there is a problem
with the card, employees must call the 866-number listed on their Zipcard. Cook County will
not reimburse employees for fueling Zipcars with their own money. Fees for not complying
with this rule will be charged to the employee.

Page 99 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

b. Shared Fleet: Wright Express cards are available in each car with directions on how to use it.
The driver listed in the reservation will be responsible for any misuse of the Wright
Express card during that reservation time.
9. User must remove all trash and personal belongings before leaving the car at the end of the
reservation.
10. User must comply with the Cook County Vehicle Policy, any policies and procedures associated
with use of County-provided means of transportation promulgated by the employee’s Department,
and any applicable local, state, or federal traffic laws.
11.The person who makes the reservation will be held responsible for any damage, fines, and/or
penalties issued against the vehicle during the reservation time.
Additional Rules for Shared Fleet car use:
1. Vehicles are equipped with parking transponders or key cards for the garages that house them.
These transponders or key cards may never be removed from the car. Replacement fees for lost
or stolen transponders and key cards will be charged to the employee who made the reservation
at the time of the loss.
2. When fueling the vehicle, employees must enter their designated pin number and an accurate
odometer reading for the vehicle. Only the gas card assigned to that vehicle may be used to fuel it.
3. The gas card may only be used to purchase the lowest octane gasoline. Neither maintenance nor
car washes may be purchased with a gas card. If the vehicle needs maintenance or a wash, please
call the 855- telephone number to report what needs to be done.
4. Employees may not reserve cars if they do not need to use them. Employees who abandon
reservations may be disciplined and/or become ineligible to use Shared Fleet cars.
Additional Rules for Zipcar use:
1. To drive a Zipcar, Driver must comply with the terms and conditions listed in the Zipcar
Membership Contract.
2. Zipcars may not be kept overnight. They must be returned to the Zipcar “home parking space,”
as required by Zipcar’s policy, on time. If the driver cannot return it by the end of the
reservation, he/she must extend his/her reservation before the time expires. Late fees will be
charged to the employee who reserved the vehicle and may result in disciplinary action.
3. If an employee needs access to a Zipcar outside of the allotted hours (Monday to Friday, between
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.), he/she must submit a request with written justification to his/her
Vehicle Coordinator and obtain his/her approval in advance.
4. Only non-luxury vehicles may be reserved under the Zipcar program; luxury vehicles (i.e. Audis
and BMWs) may not be used or reserved under this program. Reservations charged to the County

Page 100 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

for luxury vehicles will be charged back to the employee who made the reservation and may
result in disciplinary action.
5. Users who have to cancel a reservation must do so at least 3 hours prior to the start of the
reservation. Any fees charged to the County because of failure to comply with this rule will be
charged to the employee and may result in disciplinary action.
6. Users must additionally comply with each of “Zipcar’s 6 Simple Rules,” listed below:
a. Report Damage
b. Keep it Clean
c. No Smoking
d. Fill’er Up
e. Return on Time
f. Pets in Carriers
See, http://www.zipcar.com/is-it/rules for details.
Violations
Employees who violate any applicable local, state, or federal traffic laws or Zipcar rules are responsible
for paying any fines or penalties they incur.
Should an employee receive such a fine or penalty, his/her Zipcar access maybe suspended until the fine
or penalty is paid.
Failure to comply with this policy and any applicable local, state or federal traffic laws may result in loss
of car sharing program privileges and/or disciplinary action; up to and including discharge.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER

14-0607
Presented by: STEPHEN J. CINA, M.D., Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Medical Examiner
Other Part(ies): Des Moines University, Des Moines, Iowa
Request: authorization for Cook County on behalf of the Medical Examiner’s Office to enter into and
execute a clinical education agreement with Des Moines University (DMU) students.
Goods or Services: The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth in writing the understanding of the
parties as to the cooperative efforts of the parties in the education and instruction of DMU's
undergraduate students. DMU desires to affiliate with Clinical Site to provide students an active clinical

Page 101 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

experience. DMU believes it can achieve this goal with the Clinical Site.
Agreement Number(s):

N/A

Agreement Period: 4/1/2014 - 3/31/2017
Fiscal Impact:

Revenue Generating.

Accounts: N/A
Summary:
IV. Clinical Site Agrees:
A. to designate a program director from its professional staff who will be in charge of the student
training and will serve as the site's liaison to the senior associate dean for clinical affairs within the
College of Osteopathic Medicine.
B. to provide teaching and full time supervision of clinical activities of students by fully accredited
physicians and/or specialty residents appropriate to the service students are assigned to.
C. to determine the content and educational experience of the rotation based on the College of
Osteopathic Medicine's clinical rotation guidelines, the site's clinical needs and patient availability at
the site and the clinic expertise of the student. The program director or designee will provide orientation
regarding the site's expected policies/procedures and provide a duty schedule for the student either
upon or prior to the student's arrival to the Clinical Site.
D. to provide a complete evaluation and rating of the student's performance on a specified time basis
as outlined in the College of Osteopathic Medicine’s clinical clerkship guidelines. A grade will also be
determined by the faculty in accordance with clerkship guidelines.
E. to allow each student to critique the clinical experience received on each rotation at the Clinical
Site.
F. to participate in a survey or clinical site visit by a representative of the College of Osteopathic
Medicine to obtain information as needed for activities related to the accreditation of the College.
G. that students will not be treated as or considered employees of Clinical Site nor are students
eligible for worker 's compensation as they are not employees of Clinical Site or the College of
Osteopathic Medicine.
H. that Clinical Site at its sole cost and expense shall procure and maintain in full force and effect
throughout the term of this Agreement such policies as general liability, professional liability and ther
insurances as shall be necessary to insure Clinical Site, its employees and agents against claim or
claims for damages arising by reason of personal injuries or death occasioned directly or indirectly in
connection with the performance of any service by Clinical Site in connection with this Agreement.
Clinical Site may provide a program of self-insurance to comply with the requirements of this

Page 102 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Paragraph H. Upon request by any party to this Agreement, Clinical Site shall deliver copies of such
policies to that party prior to or upon execution of the Agreement and any modifications, extensions or
renewals or such policies prior to or upon each anniversary date of this Agreement thereafter. Clinical
Site agrees to notify the other parties to this Agreement immediately upon notification from the
insurance carrier hat a policy will be canceled.
V. DMU Agrees:
A. that the senior associate dean for clinical affairs will represent the College of Osteopathic
Medicine in all matters of this contract and serve as liaison to Clinical Site.
B. in cooperation with Clinical Site's program director or designee, will appoint qualified physicians
participating in the program as clinical faculty members. Such individuals shall be available at all times
for consultation to students who are participating in the clinical experience.
C. and warrants that all students participating in a clinical experience shall have successfully finished
pre clinical courses and shall be in the third or fourth year of medical education. Any exception must be
approved by the dean of the College of Osteopathic Medicine and Clinical Site administration.
D. that individual letters of good standing will be sent to Clinical Site by the College of Osteopathic
Medicine for each student rotating at Clinical Site.
E. that each student will furnish proof of personal health insurance and verification of immunizations
to include: Tuberculosis or chest x ray, Rubeola, Rubella, Hepatitis B, Varicella and Tetanus to Clinical
Site prior to rotation
F. to acknowledge that Clinical Site or any of its clinical settings will have no responsibility for the
health care needs of students except on an emergency basis and with prompt notification to the College
of Osteopathic Medicine. DMU further acknowledges that the University is not responsibility for the
health care needs of the students and that without proof of personal health insurance students will not be
allowed to leave campus for clinical rotations.
G. that each student will furnish a certificate of training as required by OSHA to Clinical Site prior to
the rotation and upon request by Clinical Site and each student shall be responsible for getting a
personal respiratory equipment fitting prior to his/her clinical rotation, and supplying this information
to the Clinical Site.
H. to assure Clinical Site that upon request students will provide proof to Clinical Site that they have
current CPR Professional Certification two man CPR (American Heart Association BLS, American
Red Cross or Equivalent Standard).
I. that each student has obtained a criminal background check prior to leaving campus for rotations.
The College of Osteopathic Medicine will be the central repository for all files concerning criminal
background checks of its students and shall be responsible to report anycriminal acts in writing to
Clinical Site before students report for rotation. Any failure to do this will negate the rotation and
agreement between the University and Clinical Site. Any additional background checks required by

Page 103 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Clinical Site are the responsibility of the student to obtain and all costs related to the additional
background checks are that of the student as well.
J. to keep in force professional liability insurance coverage for all of its students on assignment to
Clinical Site with limits of $2 million each claim and $4 million aggregate covering students and the
University. The students must be approved and assigned by the College of Osteopathic Medicine's
Clinical Affairs Department to activate this coverage. The University is not responsible for liability
coverage for the Clinical Site or its employees and upon request Clinical Site, the University will
deliver copies of such policy to that party prior to or upon execution of this agreement and any
modifications, extensions or renewals or such policies prior to or upon each anniversary date of this
agreement thereafter. The University agrees to notify the other parties to this agreement immediately
upon notification from the insurance carrier that a policy will be cancelled.
K. to keep in force general liability insurance coverage for all of its students on assignment to Clinical
Site with limits of $l million each claim and $5 million aggregate covering students and the University.
The students must be approved and assigned by the College of Osteopathic Medicine's Clinical Affairs
Department to activate this coverage. The University is not responsible for general liability coverage
for Clinical Site or its employees and upon request by Clinical Site, the University will deliver copies of
such policy to that party prior to or upon each anniversary date of this agreement thereafter. The
University agrees to notify the other parties to this agreement immediately upon notification from the
insurance carrier that a policy will be cancelled.
L. to take any action necessary to correct a breach of professional decorum or unsatisfactory
performance of a student as a reported by the Program Director of Clinical Site.
M. to be responsible for granting leave of absence from duty. Should a long term absence occur, a note
from the dean's office will be needed prior to the student's return to rotations. No vacation time can be
scheduled during a Clinical Site rotation.
N. to advise students to abide by the rules of Clinical Site during the period of rotation, including
attendance at daily educational conferences, prompt reporting of illness or absence to supervising
physician and the wearing of proper attire.
O. to require all students to maintain the confidentiality of all patients and all information relating to
patients in accordance with the Code of Ethics established by the American Osteopathic Association.
DMU further agrees to require the students to agree to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary
information of the clinical site. The unauthorized release and/or discussion of patient of Clinical Site
proprietary information can result in the termination of the participation of a student in the program or
the termination of the Agreement.
P. to inform and explain to students while they are at Clinical Site they will be under the jurisdiction of
the Clinical Site officials for training purposes and will follow Clinical Site rules to the extent that such
rules relate directly to education and training. DMU will also inform students of their need to comply
with Clinical Site policies and rules including those pertaining to the patient privacy and HIPAA
regulations.

Page 104 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Q. the parties acknowledge that many student educational records are protected by the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act ("FERPA") and that student permission must be obtained before
releasing specific student data to anyone other than DMU.

14-0807
Presented by: STEPHEN J. CINA, M.D., Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Vendor: Agilent Technologies, Inc., Santa Clara, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Agilent Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry System and Gas
Chromatography Dual Flame Ionization Detector
Contract Value: $171,356.90
Contract period: One-time purchase
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2013 $171,356.90
Accounts: 717/259-540
Contract Number(s): 1335-12867
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Purchase of specialized medical equipment from vendor that is compatible with all other lab
equipment currently used in the Toxicology Lab of the Medical Examiner’s Office.

14-1301
Presented by: STEPHEN J. CINA, M.D., Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Action: To allow the Medical Examiner’s Office to make payment for neuropathological consultant
services while contract was being procured.

Page 105 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Payee: Dr. Marc Reyes, Woodridge, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional neuropathological consultant services
Fiscal Impact: $6,700.00
Accounts: 259-272
Contract Number(s): 1328-12691
Summary: This is a professional neuropathology consultant that assists the doctors at the Medical
Examiner’s Office in determining cause of death by further analyzing decedent’s brain. This payment is
for necessary services performed during the time the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer conducted
a procurement process to award a Cook County contract for these services. This is an on-going
professional consultant service that is needed at the Medical Examiner

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION AND HIGHWAYS

14-0791
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT FOR REIMBURSEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Skokie, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute
Goods or Services: Reimbursement Agreement with the Village of Skokie wherein the County will
design and construct improvements along Old Orchard Road from Harms Road to the Edens Expressway
(I-94) southbound ramps, including new water main casing pipe installation.
Location: Old Orchard Road - Harms Road to the Edens Expressway (1-94) southbound ramps in the
Village of Skokie
Section Number: 00-A8326-01-RP
County Board District: 13, 14
Centerline Mileage: 0.74 miles
Agreement Period: N/A

Page 106 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $37,288.00 (100% to be reimbursed from the Village of Skokie)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Village will reimburse the County for its share of improvement costs, estimated total
Village share $37,288.00. This Agreement is necessitated by the improvement and is needed to provide a
safe, comfortable and sustainable highway.

14-0796
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association, East Hazel Crest, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute
Goods or Services: Corridor Study along the Bishop Ford Freeway (IL-394)
Location: Bishop Ford Freeway (IL-394) from the proposed location of an interchange with the Illiana
Expressway south of Beecher to the Moline Expressway (I-80)
Section: 12-6HISP-36-ES
County Board District: 5 and 6
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $15,625.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary:
The Department of Transportation and Highways submits for execution an
Intergovernmental Agreement between the South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association
(SSMMA) and Cook County, wherein the SSMMA will conduct a Corridor Study along the Bishop Ford
Freeway (IL-394) from the proposed location of an interchange with the Illiana Expressway south of
Beecher to the Moline Expressway (I-80).

Page 107 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

The purpose of the study is to identify and address transportation needs, land use, economic
development, infrastructure and other related issues along the corridor. The County will reimburse the
South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association for five (5%) percent of the study costs, estimated
total County share $15,625.00, under Cook County Section: 12-6HISP-36-ES.

This Agreement has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Cook County State’s
Attorney’s Office.

14-0803
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Skokie. Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute
Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement with the Village of Skokie wherein the County will
design and construct improvements along Crawford Avenue from Devon Avenue to Oakton Street,
including sidewalk, landscaping and EVPD System for the Village of Skokie.
Location: Crawford Avenue - Devon Avenue to Oakton Street in the Village of Skokie Centerline
Mileage: 2.00 miles
Section: 08-W4337-03-PV
County Board District: 13
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $9,600,000.00 ($257,232.00 to be reimbursed from the Village of Skokie)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600 585 Account)
Summary: The Village will reimburse the County for its share of improvement costs, estimated total
Village share $257,232.00.
This Agreement is necessitated by the improvement and is needed to provide a safe, comfortable and
sustainable highway. The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the
State’s Attorney’s Office.

Page 108 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-0835
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Department of Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File.
Report Title: Construction Bureau Progress Report
Report Period: Ending 12/31/2013
Summary: Submitting a copy of the Construction Bureau Progress Report ending 12/31/2013.

14-0884
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Martam Construction Inc., City of Elgin, Illinois.
Action: Approve
Good(s) or Service(s): The awarded contract amount of this project was $10,874,385.65 and the final
construction cost is $10,473,123.06. The decrease reflects the deduction in aggregate base course,
concrete median, concrete curb and gutter, asphalt stabilized subbase, binder and surface courses per
field conditions.
Location of Project: Group 1-2009: West Bartlett Road-Spitzer Road to Illinois Rt. 59 (Ingalton
Avenue); Munger/Naperville Road-DuPage County Line to West Bartlett Road; DuPage County Highway
18- North Munger Road in the Village of Bartlett, the City of Elgin and Unincorporated Hanover
Township, Cook County.
Section: 00-B1003-05-RP
County Board District: 15
Contract Number: N/A
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A

Page 109 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Final Cost: $10,473,123.06 Final cost of project Motor Fuel Tax Funds Account # 600-600
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: -$401,262.59 or 3.7% below the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits a resolution
approving the construction of the above captioned project in the Village of Bartlett, the City of Elgin and
Unincorporated Hanover Township, Cook County.
On 5/5/2009, your Honorable Body awarded a contract to Martam Construction Inc., Elgin, Illinois for
the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and specifications.
The work, consisting of complete removal and reconstruction of West Bartlett Road from station 49+00
to station 113+07 with concrete pavement, aggregate subgrade, combination concrete curb and gutter,
concrete and landscape medians, storm sewer, drainage structures, guardrail removal and replacement,
traffic signals, detector loops, restoring with topsoil and sodding, tree planting, traffic protection,
pavement striping and in addition, resurfacing West Bartlett Road from station 34+64 to 49+00 was
repaired with patching, widening and overlayed with leveling binder and surface course, aggregate
subgrade, storm sewer, water main removal and replacement, restoring with topsoil and sodding, traffic
protection and pavement striping, the work on North Munger/Naperville Road from station 365+50 to
station 406+52 consisting of concrete pavement, aggregate subgrade, concrete curb and gutter,
landscaped median, traffic control and pavement striping, the work on Naperville Road from station
406+52 to station 413+50, consisting of total removal and reconstruction with binder and surface course,
aggregate subgrade, restoring with topsoil and sodding, traffic and pavement striping, in addition along
the side of Naperville Road a bituminous pathway was constructed with binder and surface course,
aggregate subgrade, concrete curb and gutter, traffic control, sodding, pavement striping and
miscellaneous appurtenances, has been completed under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent of Transportation and Highways

14-1017
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Construction Engineering and Inspection Services to be conducted by an
outside consulting engineering firm for the construction of County projects at various locations
throughout Cook County, and said services shall be supervised by County Forces.
Location: Various locations throughout Cook County in County Board Districts: Countywide

Page 110 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Section: 14-8CEGN-03-EG
Fiscal Impact: $4,400,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing
safe, efficient and effective transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This
appropriation is made in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body
at a later date.

14-1018
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Freight Rail Study to be conducted by an outside consulting engineering firm to
evaluate freight system needs and recommend vital improvements to accommodate current and future
freight traffic, promote the growth of the freight, manufacturing and distribution sectors and improve
truck and rail freight traffic in Central and South Cook County, and said services shall be supervised by
County Forces.
Location: Central and South Cook County
County Board District(s): 1 - 12, 17
Section: 12-6HISP-36-ES
Fiscal Impact: $900,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: This appropriating resolution is related to the Intergovernmental Agreement 14-0665,
approved on 1/15/2014. This appropriation is made in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be
presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

Page 111 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1104
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Inland Power Group, Carol Stream, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): This contract as proposed, shall be the procurement and retrofit installation of
diesel emission reduction technology on various diesel-powered vehicles owned and operated by the
Cook County Highway Department (23 trucks) and the Cook County Forest Preserve District (20 trucks)
in compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and shall include Diesel Oxidation
Catalyst (DOC) with Closed Crankcase Ventilation System (CCV), Electric Active Diesel Particulate
Filters (EADPF), Replacement Particulate Filters, Off Board Regeneration Control Panel, training on the
operation of the Control Panel and other necessary appurtenances to complete the project. Coordination
is conducted by Cook County Environmental Control on behalf of the Cook County Department of
Transportation and Highways and the Cook County Forest Preserve District.
Location: Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways Maintenance Facilities in
Maintenance Districts # 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 and at the Cook County Forest Preserve District Facilities in the
Villages of La Grange Park, Maywood, Orland Park, Riverdale, Schaumburg and the City of Des Plaines
in County Board Districts: #1, 5, 14, 16 and 17
Section: 09-00002-00-EQ
Contract Value: $529,210.11
Contract period: The contract term shall be within twenty six (26) weeks in which all installations are
to be completed and all deliverables. The warranty period is effective for one year after the final
acceptance.
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:

$529,210.11

Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 1328-12996
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

Page 112 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract as proposed, shall be the procurement and retrofit installation of diesel emission
reduction technology on various diesel-powered vehicles owned and operated by the Cook County
Highway Department (23 trucks) and the Cook County Forest Preserve District (20 trucks) in compliance
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and shall include Diesel Oxidation Catalyst (DOC) with
Closed Crankcase Ventilation System (CCV), Electric Active Diesel Particulate Filters (EADPF),
Replacement Particulate Filters, Off Board Regeneration Control Panel, training on the operation of the
Control Panel and other necessary appurtenances to complete the project.
TIP ID: 13-09-001 State Job Number: C91-146-10 Federal Project Number: CMM-9003-(517)

14-1210
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Skokie, Illinois
Request: Approve
Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement with the Village of Skokie wherein the Village will be
the lead agency for design and construction of an intersection improvement along Crawford Avenue at
Church Street. The County will reimburse the Village for thirty (30%) percent of the improvement costs,
estimated total County share $388,122.00
Location: Crawford Avenue at Church Street in the Village of Skokie
Section: 11-W4340-01-CH
County Board District: 13
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $388,122.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: Intergovernmental Agreement with the Village of Skokie wherein the Village will be the
lead agency for design and construction of an intersection improvement along Crawford Avenue at
Church Street. The County will reimburse the Village for thirty (30%) percent of the improvement costs,

Page 113 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

estimated total County share $388,122.00, under Cook County Section: 11-W4340-01-CH.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s
Office.

14-1361
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Capitol Cement Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): The contract work for this QC/QA contract improvement is to provide for the
reconstruction of all four lanes of traffic on Crawford Avenue from Devon Avenue to Oakton Street. The
improvement provides for the removal of the existing pavement and reconstruction of a 10 inch portland
cement concrete pavement , with a 12 inch aggregate subgrade, and. Also included in the improvement
are the removal and installation of sewer and water main utilities, pavement markings, replacement of
street lights, sidewalks, landscaping, traffic signals, and associated work necessary to complete the
project.
Location: Crawford Avenue at Devon Avenue to Oakton Street in the Villages of Lincolnwood and
Skokie and Niles Township in Cook County Board District #13.
Section: 08-W4337-03-PV

Contract Value: $18,728,293.17
Contract period: 2/19/2014 - 8/28/2015
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2013, $18,728,293.17
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 1388-13051
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 114 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Summary: The lowest responsive and responsible bidder, Capitol Cement Company, Inc., submitted a
bid in the amount of $18,728,293.17 , 13.5% above the Engineer’s estimate of cost. Primarily higher
than the estimated unit prices for Pavement removal, Aggregate subgrade, Portland cement concrete
pavement (10 In.) and various sewer and water main utility pay items contributed to the difference
between the Engineer’s estimate and the Capitol Cement Company, Inc. bid.

14-1362
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Bentley Systems, Inc., Exton, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Purchase of Enterprise Licenses, Training and Software Support Service
Location: Department of Transportation and Highways

Section: 14-IFCAS-13-ES
Contract Value: $151,340.00
Contract period: 12/1/2013 - 11/30/2016 with two (2) one (1) year extension options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:

FY 2014 $151,340.00

Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 1385-12932
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Bureau of Technology concurs.
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully recommends approval of a
sole source contract to Bentley Systems Inc. The Department of Transportation and Highways utilizes a
variety of Engineering Design and CAD Software provided by Bentley Systems including Microstation
CADD software. Bentley Systems is the sole provider of the support and updates for this software. The
Department was receiving maintenance and support services under a previous contract with Bentley
Systems which expired 11/30/2013 and is requesting to enter into a contract for a continuation in

Page 115 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

software support services and updates, as well as access to the Bentley Learn Training program.

14-1369
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Wang Engineering Inc., Lombard, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Geotechnical Engineering Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County in County Board Districts: Countywide
Section: 13-6SOIL-01-ES
Contract Value: $300,000.00
Contract period: 3/1/2014 - 2/29/2016 with one (1), one (1) year extension option

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $300,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 13-18-062
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Vendor will provide Geotechnical Engineering Services consisting of soil borings and
related soils analyses, geotechnical reports with recommendations derived from soil investigations,
definition of strength properties and characteristics of the underlying soils to support the roadway
pavement and highway structures, and other engineering tasks and shall include supervision by County
forces.

Page 116 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1381
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Maintenance County Highway Maintenance Resolution Tree
Removal Services for Calendar Years 2014 and 2015 at Various Locations, Section: 14-8TREE-01-GM
Maintenance District(s): 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
County Board District(s): 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 13-17
Fiscal Impact: $150,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
maintenance resolution appropriating funds for the contract maintenance tree removal services required
to combat the Emerald Ash Borer infestation, as well as in-house costs, along various County Highways
during the calendar years 2014 and 2015.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective highways and transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This
appropriation is made in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body
at a later date.

14-1382
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Maintenance Climatological Forecasting Consultant Services
for Calendar Years 2014 and 2015, Various Locations, Section: 14-IFCFS-14-GM
Maintenance District(s): 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
County Board District(s): 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 13-17

Page 117 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Fiscal Impact: $150,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
maintenance resolution appropriating funds for the contract climatological weather forecasting services
needed for forecasting snowfall, ice, frost warnings, and other adverse weather conditions, as well as
in-house costs and contingencies, to aid the deployment of County Forces and equipment along various
highways under County maintenance during the calendar years 2014 and 2015.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective highways and transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This
appropriation is made in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body
at a later date.

14-1392
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Motor Fuel Tax Project Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval
Project: The existing soil conditions necessitated a change in the roadway construction method to a
more costly use of timber piles to support the roadway embankment. Additional funding is needed for
replacement of approximately 900 feet of existing pavement with a pile supported embankment system,
reconstruction of side streets to the curb return, and removal and replacement of existing drainage
structures, storm sewers and driveway culverts.
Location: 104th Avenue, 167th Street to 159th Street, in the Village of Orland Park and Unincorporated
Orland Township
Section: 06-W2509-05-FP
County Board District: 17
Centerline Mileage: 1.01
Fiscal Impact: $865,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Board Approved Date and Amount: 4/5/2006

Page 118 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Increased Amount: $865,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $8,365,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption, a
supplemental resolution appropriating additional funds for the improvement of 104th Avenue from 167th
Street to 159th Street in the Village of Orland Park and unincorporated Orland Township.
This improvement, as proposed, will be reconstruction and widening of the existing two-lane bituminous
pavement to a single lane in each direction separated by a continuous/flush median with shoulders and
ditch drainage, replacement of approximately 900 feet of existing pavement with a pile supported
embankment system and corresponding raising of the road to address flooding of the roadway and shall
include channelization, replacement of an existing culvert, reconstruction of side streets to the curb
return; removal and replacement of existing drainage structures, storm sewers and driveway culverts;
right-of-way acquisition, landscaping, pavement marking, traffic control and protection, detour routing,
engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
On 4/5/2006, your Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution appropriating $7,500,000.00
towards completion of this improvement. At the time of this improvement resolution, the proposed
construction method for raising the roadway profile included the placement of Light Weight Fill and
Porous Granular Embankment.

14-1393
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Supplemental Appropriating Resolution
Request: Approval
Project: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption, a
supplemental resolution appropriating additional funds for a preliminary engineering study along 88th
Avenue from 87th Street to 79th Street in the City of Hickory Hills and the Village of Justice.
This appropriation, as proposed, shall be for the development of Part A preliminary engineering plans
and includes data collection and coordination, surveys, traffic counts and accident analysis, geotechnical
investigations, intersection design studies, hydraulic analysis, drainage investigations, alternate geometric
studies, local coordination, administration and other tasks as specified in an Engineering Services
Agreement and includes review by County Forces.
Location: 88th Avenue - 87th Street to 79th Street in the City of Hickory Hills and the Village of Justice

Page 119 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Section: 01-W3019-06-EG
County Board District: 6
Centerline Mileage: 1.03
Fiscal Impact: $20,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Funds (600-585)
Board Approved Date and Amount: 12/1/2001, $315,000.00
Increased Amount: $20,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $335,000.00
Summary: On 12/4/2001, your Honorable Body approved an Appropriating Resolution appropriating
$315,000.00 towards the implementation of this study. Additional funding is required for unanticipated
drainage investigations, alternate geometric studies, local coordination and administration which were
not included in the original appropriating resolution.
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING

14-1084
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Chicago Botanic Garden
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 13
Township: Northfield
Property: 1000 Lake Cook Road, Glencoe, Illinois
Permit Number: 131593
Description: Relocation of Visitor Center
Original Permit Fee: $5,244.20

Page 120 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Percent Waived: 10%
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $524.42

14-1248
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Forest Preserve District of Cook County/Camp Sagawau
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 17
Township: Lemont
Property: 12454 W. 111th Street, Lemont, Illinois
Permit Number: 140098
Description: Natural Gas Standby Generator
Original Permit Fee: $2,406.98
Percent Waived: 5%
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $120.35

14-1336
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Village of Sauk Village, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute the execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement
with respect to the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance between Cook County and the Village of
Sauk Village
Goods or Services: Inspection Services

Page 121 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Two (2) years from the date of execution
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Summary: In accordance with the Cook County Code provisions regulating the registration and
maintenance of vacant buildings and as a result of efforts undertaken by the Department of Building and
Zoning, the Bureau of Economic Development, the Department of Administrative Hearings and
representatives of the Village of Sauk Village, authorization is hereby requested for the President to enter
into and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County (“County”) and the Village of
Sauk Village, Illinois (“Sauk Village”).
Per Article VII, Section 10 of the Illinois Constitution, the Illinois Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 5
ILCS 220/1 et seq., and other applicable law, units of local government are permitted to cooperate with
and support each other in exercise of their authority and the performance of their responsibilities. In
addition, per the County’s Vacant Building Code provisions, Sauk Village wishes to document its
position as a “participating municipality” as authorized under the County’s Vacant Building Code.
The purpose of this Intergovernmental Agreement (“Agreement”) is to authorize the collaboration and
cooperation between the County and Sauk Village to enforce Cook County’s Vacant Building Code
provisions within the borders of Sauk Village and to document and set forth the obligations of each party
to the Agreement. Per the Agreement, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning will inspect
and be the enforcing authority with respect to vacant buildings located within Sauk Village’s boundaries.
The Department of Building and Zoning will institute administrative adjudication proceedings where
necessary with the Department of Administrative Hearings and Sauk Village will work with the County
to assist the County and State’s Attorney’s Office in its prosecutions of violations of the Vacant
Building Ordinance.
As a result of Sauk Village’s agreement, the County shall be authorized to pay Sauk Village fifty percent
(50%) of the registration fee for all vacant building registrations in incorporated Sauk Village and
twenty-five (25%) of all fines and penalties that the County collects from any and all enforcement
actions of vacant building violations within the Sauk Village’s borders.
The term of the Agreement shall be for two (2) years unless otherwise extended and the Agreement may
be terminated by either party upon ninety (90) days written notice.
This Intergovernmental Agreement has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Cook County
State’s Attorney’s Office.

Page 122 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

14-1102
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
JOB ORDER CONTRACT
Department:

Office of Capital Planning and Policy

Summary: The Office of Capital Planning and Policy, as authorized by the Cook County Chief
Procurement Officer, plans to participate in the Cook County’s Job Order Contract (JOC) program to
complete the three (3) capital projects listed below. JOC is a quantity based procurement process that
allows facility owners to complete a multitude of repair/maintenance and construction projects with a
single, competitively bid contract. The JOC process generally involves first selecting a pool of potential
contractors through a competitive procurement process, and then identifying projects for such selected
contractors.
The County has already completed a JOC competitive procurement process, and it has created the pool of
general contractors to perform certain projects generally associated with maintenance, repairs, replacement
and routine work.
The JOC program has an administrative component managed by the Gordian Group. The Gordian Group
maintains an area price book, which captures the prices for specific construction work items within this
region. JOC contractors bid against the prices included in the price book. The cost, therefore, of any
work performed by the contractor is a contractor markup form the price book. The Gordian Group would
receive 5% administrative fee from Cook County based on the total project cost of the work. The
Gordian Group will manage the JOC process and will verify that all proposals and work are compliant
with the terms and conditions outlined in the JOC contract with the County.
The Office of Capital Planning and Policy, proposes to assign the projects listed below to the Gordian
Group to share with participating JOC contractors:
1. Department of Corrections (DOC) ADA Compliance Renovation - The project is in response to
corrective measures required per Department of Justices’ (DOJ) citations at DOC campus. The
DOJ representatives have issued non-compliance citations addressing inaccessibility pertaining to
existing facilities that are below the acceptable ADA guidelines.
2. Criminal Courts Administration Building (CCAB) Elevator Room Air Conditioning
(AC) - The project will provide proper cooling to control humidity and heat load caused by
equipment and panels installed during the elevators most recent modernization. A 15 ton unit AC
unit will be placed on the building roof. Additionally, the freight elevator machine room will
receive a 2.5 ton air conditioning split.

Page 123 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

3. Maywood Courthouse Site preparation for additional parking - The Fourth District
Courthouse Campus, in Maywood, Illinois, requires additional parking. This project will provide
site preparation for the new additional surface parking on the Maywood Campus.
Budgets:
DOC ADA Compliance Renovation
CCAB Installation of Air Conditioning, in the elevator room
Maywood Courthouse Site Preparation for Additional Parking
Total
Schedule: N/A
Account(s): County Physical Plant - 20000

14-1197
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: HOH, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Design Services
Contract Value: $228,460.12
Contract period: 24.5 months
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $228,460.12
Accounts: County Physical Plant - 20000
Contract Number(s): 1323-12581
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 124 of 159

$500,000.00
$168,000.00
$400,000.00
$1,068,000.00

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Summary: Division VI: located on the Department of Corrections (DOC campus, Division XI: located
on the DOC campus and 6th District Courthouse: located in Markham Fire and life safety systems are
over 15 years of age without upgrades to date. System upgrades are required due to aged components
and the difficulty of obtaining replacement parts. In addition, modifications to the spaces in each facility
require that systems be reconfigured to assure that all fire and supervisory alarms signals are accurately
indicated on the control panels.

14-1384
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court; JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of
Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of Capital Planning and the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Smith Movers, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Moving Services
Contract Value: $940,500.00
Contract period: 2/19/2014 - 4/25/2014
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $940,500.00
Accounts: 499-260
Contract Number(s): 1423-13327
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Summary: An Invitation for Bid was issued for the 89th Street Facility Warehouse Move. A
competitive bid process was followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Smith
Movers, Inc., Chicago, Illinois was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder and is recommended for
this award. The intent of this project is to centralize the Clerk's files and evidence into one warehouse
location - Records Center located at 1330 S. 54th Avenue, Cicero, Illinois. The work requires that the
Contractor provide new boxes as specified for all file storage and transfer all files into new boxes prior to
the move. The Contractor will be required to provide all equipment and personnel necessary to re-box,
tag, pack, track, move, and place items at the Cicero Records Center. Having one central location for the
Clerks records will maximize staff efficiency and reduce overhead costs for the 89th street location.

Page 125 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

14-0713
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

HMK 1100, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from HMK
1100, LLC and Resolution No. 42-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned industrial
facility located at 1100 Touhy Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County District
17, Permanent Index Number 08-27-303-013-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and.
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for 18 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and

Page 126 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will retain 302 full-time jobs, 12 part-time
jobs, eight (8) new full-time jobs and 15-20 construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the
Class 6b; and is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 1100
Touhy Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-0715
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CHARLES EQUIPMENT ENERGY SYSTEM, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Charles Equipment Energy System, LLC and Resolution No. R-91-13 from the City of Des Plaines for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 530 Santa Rose, Des Plaines, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County
District 17, Permanent Index Number 09-31-200-016-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and

Page 127 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was 100 %
abandoned for two (2) months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create an estimated 6-8 full-time jobs; 5
part-time jobs; retain 14 full-time jobs; and 10-20 construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the City of Des Plaines states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property has
been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value and is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 530 Santa Rose,
Des Plaines, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 128 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1353
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
VK ACQUISITIONS II, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from VK
Acquisitions II, LLC or Assignee and Resolution No. 28-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 221 Joey Drive, Elk Grove Village Cook County, Illinois, Cook
County District 17, Permanent Index Numbers 08-22-102-230-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of under 24 months and purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 18 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and

Page 129 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated 15-20 new full-time jobs, and 10 construction
jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for under 24 months; there has been a purchase for value; and is in need of
substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class 6b
incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 221
Joey Drive, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-1359
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and JOHN P.
DALEY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
GERALD G. WARNER 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Gerald G. Warner and Resolution No. 13-001 from the Village of Bedford Park for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 6312 W. 74th Street, Bedford Park, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County
District 11, Permanent Index Number 19-29-100-055-0000 and 19-29-100-062-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and

Page 130 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for 17 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create an estimated 15-20 full-time jobs
and retain 40 full-time jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Bedford Park states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on
this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property
as been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the Class 6b; and
is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6bincentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 6312 W. 74th
Street, Bedford Park, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the
class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 131 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1366
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
GULLO DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
George Gullo Development Corporation located in Unincorporated Cook County for a renewal of an
existing Class 6b tax incentive for an industrial facility located at 2050 Higgins Road, Elk Grove Village,
Illinois, Cook County District 17, Permanent Index Numbers 08-26-102-041-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined that the classification period for Class 6b shall continue for 12
years from the date such new construction (excluding demolition if any), or such substantial
rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed, or in case of abandoned property, from the date of
substantial reoccupancy; and
WHEREAS, the Class 6b classification may be renewed during the last year in which a property is
entitled to a 10% assessment level or when the incentive is still applied at the 15% or 20% assessment
level, by filing a renewal application and a certified copy of a resolution or ordinance adopted by the
municipality in which the real estate is located, or by the County Board, if located in an unincorporated
area of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, the real estate is located in an unincorporated area of Cook County, the Cook County
Board must by lawful resolution or ordinance, expressly state that it supports and consents to the filling
of a Renewal Class 6b Application and that it finds Class 6b is necessary and beneficial to the local
economy; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners confirms that the nature of the original
development allowing the Class 6b was new construction and the original resolution was approved April
27, 2000; and

Page 132 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

WHEREAS, the applicant estimate an currently employs 30 full time jobs and 10 part time jobs and the
applicant estimate to create 10 full time jobs and 3 part time jobs and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners has determined that the industrial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the
local economy and supports and consents to the renewal of the Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the
renewal Class 6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 2050
Higgins Road, Elk Grove Village, Illinois, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed eligible for the renewal of
the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION

14-0622
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a (New) Lease Agreement
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant:
Location:

Subway Real Estate, LLC
69 West Washington Street, Lower Level, Suite LL13

Term/Extension Period:

6/1/2014 - 5/31/2024, subject to completion of improvements

Space Occupied: 1,332 Square feet
Monthly Rent:
Gross Rent:
Lease Year Rent (psf) Annual
Monthly
1
$28.00
$37,296.00 $3,108.00
2
$28.70
$38,228.40 $3,185.70
3
$29.42
$39,187.44 $3,265.62

Page 133 of 159

 Board of Commissioners
4
6
7
8
9
10

$30.15
$31.67
$32.46
$33.27
$34.10
$34.95

BOARD AGENDA

$41,158.80
$42,184.44
$43,236.72
$44,315.64
$45,421.20
$46,553.40

February 19, 2014

$3,429.90
$3,515.37
$3,603.06
$3,692.97
$3,785.10
$3,879.45

Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: Two 5 year options (At Market Rate, not less than existing rent)
Termination: N/A
Utilities Included: HVAC and water included, Tenant pays electric metered to Premises
Summary/Notes: Operating Expenses and Taxes: In addition to Base Rent, Tenant shall pay its
proportionate share of operating expenses for the building and leasehold taxes for the premises in excess
of a 2014 base year.
Improvement Allowance: The County is providing certain improvements to the Premises to prepare it
for Tenant’s occupancy, estimated to cost $90,800.00. Tenant will perform and pay for all other
improvements to the Premises in accordance with plans approved by Landlord.*This item was deferred at
the 1/15/2014 meeting of the Board of Commissioners
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

14-1391
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and PETER
N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE - 13.2.2. DEPARTMENT OF
BUILDING AND ZONING AND THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Appendix A, Zoning, Article 13,
Administration and Enforcement, Section 13.2.2 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
13.2.2. Duties of the Zoning Administrator.
A. Administration of this ordinance shall be exercised through a person in the
Department of Building and Zoning designated as the Zoning Administrator. The
Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the President of the Cook County Board

Page 134 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

of Commissioners.
B. Duties of the Zoning Administrator shall be as follows:
1. Issue, upon request, a letter verifying the zoning classification of property to
a person who is entitled to initiate a zoning amendment including
interpretations giving the meaning and intent of provisions of this ordinance.
2. Maintain permanent and current records of this ordinance including, but not
limited to, all maps, map amendments, special uses, planned unit
developments, variances variations, appeals and related applications.
3. Provide and maintain a source of public information for all matters arising
out of this ordinance.
4. Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Committee of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, applications for special uses and map
amendments. The Zoning Administrator shall not forward applications
which fail to comply with this ordinance.
5. Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals applications for
variances variations, special uses, appeals and other matters which the
Zoning Board of Appeals is required to act upon as provided in this
ordinance. The Zoning Administrator shall reject applications for variations
which are not authorized by this ordinance.
6. Review properties subject to legal action which have resulted in the
invalidation of zoning under this ordinance and change official zoning maps
to reflect court decrees.
7. Review properties which have been disconnected from a municipality, or
which have come within the jurisdiction of Cook County as the result of the
dissolution of a municipality, and recommend to the Zoning Board of
Appeals amendments for reclassification of properties.
8. Determine use, lot and bulk requirements provided in this ordinance.
9. Forward plans to the Cook County Superintendent of Highways for proposed
uses which provide one hundred parking spaces for Highway Department
review comment and approval pursuant to this article.
10. Duties as the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall by ordinance,
resolution or direction provide.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 135 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

14-1073
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Interim Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Facilities Management
Action: Approval of payment
Payee: Anderson Pest Control
Good(s) or Service(s): Pest control services
Fiscal Impact: $450.00
Accounts: 200-235
Contract Number(s): 10-53-65
Summary: This request for payment approval is for an invoice for services provided that were not
included in the scope of work for contract 10-53-65, which provides pest control services. The
department has reached the annual allotment for Direct Pay with this vendor.

14-1090
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Interim Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Facilities Management
Action: Approval of payment
Payee: Waste Management
Good(s) or Service(s): Scavenger Service
Fiscal Impact: $494.99
Accounts: 200-215
Contract Number(s): N/A

Page 136 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Summary: The request for payment approval is for invoices for services that were not included in the
scope of work for contract 10-53-027, which provided scavenger services. The department has reached the
annual allotment for Direct Pay with this vendor.
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

14-1383
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resources Activity Reports for Pay Period 26 2013 and Pay Period 1 2014
Report Period: Pay Period 26: 12/1/2013 - 12/14/2013 and Pay Period 1: 12/15/2013 - 12/28/2013
Summary: Submitting the Human Resources Activity report covering the pay periods listed above.

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

14-1156
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Cook County Bureau of Technology
Request: Refer to the Committee on Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 12/1/2013 - 2/28/2014
Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated
Cook County Criminal Justice System on a quarterly basis beginning with the first quarter of the
FY2014.

Page 137 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1370
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology, Department of GIS
Vendor: Radio Satellite Integrators, Inc., Torrance, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Automated vehicle tracking software and devices
Contract Value: $1,736,800.00
Contract period: 3/1/2014 - 2/28/2019
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014: $576,240.00, FY 2015: $290,140.00, FY 2016:
$290,140.00, FY 2017: $290,140.00, FY 2018: $290,140.00.
Accounts: 545-260
Contract Number(s): 12-28-318
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: BOT desires to implement an AVL system to enhance the ability to efficiently manage the
assignment of County vehicle operations. BOT will also use the AVL and mobile data system to increase
safety, productivity, and service to the citizens in area of operations. The County needs to manage and
operate GPS hardware, software and services to support the effective management of the County’s fleet.
Some of the desired outcomes include: improving emergency response, tracking snow removal and
roadway maintenance, analyzing routes, having robust reporting capabilities and support for telemetry
and telematics technology.

Page 138 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1371
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology, Department of GIS
Vendor: Pro-West and Associates, Inc., Walker, Minnesota
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Building and Zoning Permit Tracking Application, Stage II
Contract Value: $379,365.00
Contract period: 3/1/2014 - 2/28/2016
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $379,365.00
Accounts: 545-260
Contract Number(s): 1318-12726
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: If approved, this new contract will allow BOT to extend and complete the development of
the Building Permit Tracking Application that was initiated under a separate project for the Department
of Building and Zoning (BZ). The development goals of this second stage will include a module to
manage the inspection process for various permits, a mobile tool for use by field inspectors, an online
site to manage the E-permit application process, enhancements to the current County public-facing
permit status web application, enhancements to an existing workflow application, as well as a number of
specialty enhancements for the Application. With the completion of this stage, BZ will have achieved
full migration toward an automated paperless permitting system with full integration to Geographic
Information System (GIS) technology.

Page 139 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1372
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology, Department of GIS
Vendor: Pro-West and Associates, Inc., Walker, Minnesota
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Municipal Incorporation Inventory Services
Contract Value: $186,486.00
Contract period: 3/1/2014 - 2/29/2016
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $186,486.00
Accounts: 545-260
Contract Number(s): 12-90-12816
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract will allow BOT to create a comprehensive record of municipal incorporation
Policy, statutes, ordinances, and decisions regarding incorporation and jurisdictional responsibility are
solely dependent upon the rigorous inventory of documents that govern such information. Geospatial by
definition, the County intends to manage it as part of its enterprise GIS and to have it accessible to all
County agencies, as well as local governments.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY

14-0594
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor:

TASC, Inc., Chicago, Illinois

Page 140 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): This contract is for patient care management services and will provide a variety
of services to adult offenders participating in the Circuit Court of Cook County’s six adult mental health
treatment courts who are diverted from incarceration. These services are client care management, which
includes screening and clinical assessments, case planning, referral to substance use and mental health
treatment services and intensive case management services.
Contract Value: $825,260.24
Contract period: 03/01/2014 - 02/28/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $183,391.20, FY 2015 $275,086.80, FY 2016
$275,086.80, and FY 2017 $91,695.44
Accounts:

310-260

Contract Number(s): 1323-12393
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The court operates 19 specialty/treatment courts in Chicago and across suburban Cook
County that seek to help low level criminal defendants who suffer from an underlying mental health,
social or substance abuse problem from becoming repeat offenders. This is undertaken through intensive
judicial supervision and the delivery of treatment and services from community-based sources. The
Circuit Court's Specialty/Treatment Courts include drug treatment court, mental health treatment court,
veterans’ treatment court and a court for women charged with felony prostitution. On
8/1/2013,
the
Office of the Chief Procurement Officer issued a RFP for Patient Care Management Services, Contract
#1323-12393. TASC was one of two proposers which responded to the RFP and was selected as the
proposer with the best overall value for these services Cook County.

14-1206
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD AMENDMENT
Department: Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantee: Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to extend and increase

Page 141 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Purpose: The grant is available under a federal Recovery Justice Assistance program designed to assist
and protect victims of domestic violence. Since the initiation of the program in 2010, the grant has
helped fund the victim assistance program in the court’s Domestic Violence Division. Under the
program, staff members coordinate the delivery services to thousands of domestic violence litigants,
including legal advice, direct representation in court or referrals to supportive services, all at no cost.
Staff members have also engaged more than 100 court and community stakeholders to improve victim
access to legal remedies and to ensure compliance with court orders. Program funds are used for staff
salaries, as well as for related travel and training.
Supplemental Grant Amount: $99,822.00
Grant Period:
Extension Period: 10/1/2013 - 4/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: $33,274.00 match requirement.
Accounts: 310-818
Date of Previous Board Authorization for Grant: The authorization to accept the original grant was
given on 4/20/2010, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners in the amount of $500,000.00. On
3/1/2012, the County Board approved a time-only extension through 7/31/2012; on 7/24/2012, an
additional time extension to 7/31/2013 with an increase of $199,643.00; on 5/29/2013, an additional time
extension to 9/30/2013, with an additional increase of $44,500.00.
Previous Grant Amount: $744,143.00 as above.
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: This increase and time extension will provide additional funds to allow the continuation of
the Circuit Court’s victim assistance program in the Domestic Violence Division.

14-1368
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Grantee: Cook County
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant

Page 142 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Purpose: The purpose of the program is to improve community response to family violence.
Grant Amount: $35,100.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2014 - 6/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: $11,450.00
Accounts: 310-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 6/19/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $77,000.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: The Circuit Court's Family Violence Coordinating Councils Program has six (6) councils,
one (1) for each of the court's five (5) suburban municipal districts and one county-wide that provides
oversight and coordination. The councils operate as local forums to improve community response to
family violence by providing education, community outreach, prevention, and services for victims and
perpetrators of child abuse, domestic violence and elder abuse. Program funds are used for the salary and
fringe benefits of the program director.

14-1378
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Vendor: Justice Benefits, Inc., Dallas, Texas
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Title IV-E Planning and Claiming Implementation Services
Contract Value: 10% of child welfare program cost reimbursements (Title IV-E of the Social Security
Act) on the first $15 million dollars, 15% on individual claims exceeding $15 million dollars.
Contract period: 4/1/2014 - 3/31/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: None, Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A

Page 143 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Contract Number(s): 1490-13306
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Since 2007, Justice Benefits, Inc. has assisted Cook County in the recovery of costs incurred
by the Circuit Court of Cook County’s Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department for preventive
measures aimed at keeping delinquent, at-risk youth in their homes. These measures include foster care
referrals, and other preventative case management services. For example, for the most recent year ended
6/30/2013, JBI helped Cook County recover $1,558,267.52 in Title IV-E cost reimbursements from the
State of Illinois. JBI’s assistance will include the compilation of time and cost data on services provided
and technical assistance with the submission of the Title IV-E reimbursement requests.
It is proposed that JBI provide these services pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code (the “Reference Contract Ordinance”). JBI was previously awarded a contract by
Washington County, Oregon, for similar services through a competitive Request for Proposal process.
Cook County wishes to leverage these procurement efforts. A similar reference contract arrangement
with JBI was approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on 12/4/2013, for the recovery of
costs associated with the federal government’s State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP).
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT

14-1208
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Crowe Horwath LLP, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Services for Case Management System Needs Analysis
Contract Value: $244,650.00
Contract period: 03/01/2014 - 02/28/2015
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2013 $244,650.00
Accounts: 715-579
Contract Number(s): 1328-12928

Page 144 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Bureau of Technology concurs.
Summary: A comprehensive and complete needs analysis will provide an effective and efficient remedy
to replace the current case management system.

14-1351
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Clerk of the Circuit Court
Request: Approval of Transfer of Funds within Department 529
Reason: Transfer of Funds needed to enter into a contract for Professional Services of three
programmers for Mainframe and .Net programming to assist with electronic filing, imaging operations
and the implementation of the Standard File Room Operating Procedures (SFROP) Project.
From Account(s): 529-660, ($149,600.00)
To Account(s): 529-260, $149,600.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $149,600.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
On 12/30/2013 it became apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds in order
to meet current obligations. The balance in the account on that date was $216,310.00, and the balance 30
days prior to that date was $216,310.00.
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
Account 660-Rent Office and Medical Facility was identified as the source of transferred funds as the
89th Street storage facility will be relocated to the new Cicero location by the end of April 2014, hence
only 5 months of rent will be needed at 89th Street facility resulting in the availability of funds for the
transfer.

Page 145 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None.
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
Account 660-Rent Office and Medical Facility has the needed funds for the transfer as the relocation
from 89th Street storage facility to the new Cicero location is now expected to be completed by the end
of April 2014, hence only 5 months of rent will be needed at 89th Street facility, resulting in the
availability of funds for the transfer.

14-1352
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Clarity Partners, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Services for Mainframe and .Net programmers
Contract Value: $249,600.00
Contract period: 3/01/2014 - 8/31/2014
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2013 $100,000.00, FY 2014 $149,600.00
Accounts: (335-260) - (529-260)
Contract Number(s): 1388-13194
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Bureau of Technology concurs.
Summary: This contract is for Mainframe and .Net programmers to assist with electronic filing,
imaging operations and the implementation of the standard file room operating procedures project.

Page 146 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY

14-1096
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: The Illinois Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Council
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: This grant renewal provides one year of continued funding for the Motor Vehicle Theft
Prosecutions Unit. This grant funds the salaries and benefits for five (5) assistant state’s attorneys, one
(1) state’s attorney investigator, and one (1) administrative assistant located at 2650 South California
Ave.
Grant Amount: $823,644.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 1/16/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $823,644.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: This grant renewal provides one year of continued funding for the Motor Vehicle Theft
Prosecutions Unit. This grant funds the salaries and benefits for five (5) assistant state’s attorneys, one
(1) state’s attorney investigator, and one (1) administrative assistant located at 2650 South California
Ave. The personnel funded by this grant work to increase the prosecution of offenders involved in motor
vehicle theft and other motor vehicle related crimes. There is no match requirement for this grant

Page 147 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1101
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: This grant provides continued funding for our Complex Drug Prosecutions Initiative. This
program funds the salaries of eight (8) assistant state’s attorneys and two (2) investigators. The Complex
Drug Prosecutions Initiative focuses on implementing strategies that have proven to be effective in
combating drug enterprises and networks operating in the city and suburban Cook County
Grant Amount: $939,283.00
Grant Period: 10/1/2013 - 9/30/2014.
Fiscal Impact: $319,308.00
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 12/4/2012
Most Recent Grant Amount: $1,174,104.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: This grant provides continued and combined funding for our Complex Drug Prosecutions
initiative. This program funds the salaries of eight (8) assistant state’s attorneys and two (2)
investigators. The Complex Drug Prosecutions Initiative focuses on implementing strategies that have
proven to be effective in combating drug enterprises and networks operating in the city and suburban
Cook County. This grant requires that our Office match one dollar for every three dollars of federal
funding. The match commitment for this program is a cash match and covers a portion of the salaries, a
portion of the grant-funded personnel fringe benefits and the independent audit.

Page 148 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1103
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: The program provides the salaries and fringe benefits of two Prevention Coordinators and two
administrative assistants who are staffed at the West Side Community Justice Center and the Central
Community Justice Center.
Grant Amount: $252,198.00
Grant Period: 10/1/2013 - 9/30/2014.
Fiscal Impact: $69,067.00
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 4/6/2010
Most Recent Grant Amount: $877,650.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any

Summary: This grant provides continued funding for the Community Justice Centers. The program
provides the salaries and fringe benefits of two Prevention Coordinators and two administrative assistants
who are staffed at the West Side Community Justice Center and the Central Community Justice Center.
This grant does not require a match, however due to a reduction in funding, the office is providing a partial
cash match to fund salaries and fringe benefits of the grant-funded staff that are notcovered by the award.

Page 149 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU

14-0973
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Dexter Saffold v. Thomas Dart

Case Number: 13 M1 17037

14-0974
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Joseph Wilkins v. Merkle, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 375

14-0975
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Tonia Arthur-Zekas v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 9013

Page 150 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-0976
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Taurus Blossom v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 9202

14-0977
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Michael Gardner v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 7623

14-0979
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Simon Lee v. Officer Polino, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 6523

14-0980
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau

Page 151 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

Request:

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Bato Petrov v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 6080

14-0981
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Bato Petrov v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 6080

14-0982
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Scott Elvers and April L. Aragon v. Officer Karlos, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 8912

14-0983
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Mark Howard a/k/a Clarence Williamson v. Dorothy Brown

Case Number: 13 C 1970

Page 152 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-0984
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Oneal Johnson v. Circuit Clerk of Cook County

Case Number: 13 M1 161607

14-0985
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Benyehuda Whitfield v. Lester Finkle, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 4910

14-0986
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Anthony Johnson v. County of Cook, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 6093

14-0987
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau

Page 153 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

Request:

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Anthony Johnson v. Officer Lassere

Case Number: 13 C 6091

14-0988
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Pierre Davis v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 5922

14-0989
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Ashley Gay v. Cook County, et al.

Case Number: Pre-Litigation

14-0990
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Keycie Streets v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 9324

Page 154 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-0991
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Curtis Whisby v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 8781

14-0992
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Gogins v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 7304

14-0993
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Christine Opp v. State’s Attorney’s Office

Case Number: 21B-2007-02173

14-0994
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau

Page 155 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

Request:

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Leonard Cahnmann v. State’s Attorney’s Office

Case Number: 21B-2007-02242

14-0995
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request: Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
Case Name:

Ricky Granderson v. State’s Attorney’s Office

Case Number: 440-2011-04997

14-1127
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Daroush Ebrahimi v. Sgt. Lewis, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 4727

14-1129
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Craig Harris v. Juvenile Temporary Detention Center

Case Number: 13 L 14296

Page 156 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

14-1130
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Miguel Saucedo v. Merit Board

Case Number: 13 CH 26839

14-1131
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Rick Sylvester v. Merit Board

Case Number: 13 CH 19373

14-1132
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Cook County Sheriff v. Cook County Human Rights Commission and Cynthia Walker

Case Number: 13 CH 17663

14-1133
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau

Page 157 of 159

 Board of Commissioners
Request:

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Tyrone McCullough v. Thomas Dart

Case Number: 13 CH 23188

14-1134
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Justin Washington v. Cook County

Case Number: 13 C 7715

14-1135
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Justin Washington v. Cook County

Case Number: 13 CH 20011

14-1136
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Stevie Jackson v. Thomas Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 6005

Page 158 of 159

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

February 19, 2014

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER

14-1244
Presented by: MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Treasurer
Vendor: R & S Associates, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): IT Consulting Services
Original Contract Period: 12/1/2012 - 11/30/2013
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 12/1/2013 - 11/30/2014
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$95,000.00

Original Approval: 11/16/2012, $95,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $125,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014, $125,000.00
Accounts: 534-260
Contract Number(s): 12-90-362
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Bureau of Technology concurs.
Summary: I. T. Consulting in the area of maintaining, modifying and creating existing Treasurer’s
Mainframe-MIS critical interfaces and electronic warrant book project.

Page 159 of 159

 