Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, December 13, 2017

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
18-1026
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 11/15/2017
18-1101
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 11/14/2017.

Page 1 of 5

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

18-1012
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 11/15/2017.
17-6195
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
An Amendment to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III - County Board, Division 2 - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sections 2-105(i) and
2-105(l) of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.
***

(i) Public testimony. The Board encourages public participation in the legislative process.
To
preserve order and decorum and in the interest of efficiency, the presiding officer may impose time and
subject matter limits on public comment or testimony. The following rules shall apply at any meeting of
the Board and its committees at which public comment or testimony is taken:
Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of
the Board.
(1) Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have
submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the
Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called
upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be
germane to a specific item or items (s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for
public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use
vulgar, abusive or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board. Failure to act
appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere
to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person

Page 2 of 5

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

from providing future testimony.
(2) Disruptions of meetings are prohibited. Disruptions include, but are not limited to:
a. Speech by an individual after expiration of the time allotted for the speaker's public
comment or testimony;
b. Speech by an individual that is not germane to a specific item or items on the meeting
agenda;
c. Speech by an individual who has not been recognized by the presiding officer for public
comment or testimony, who is speaking in a volume louder than a low, conversational level
appropriate for communication between persons seated next to each other in the chamber,
or whose speech is audible by others; or
d. Holding or placing a banner or sign during a meeting in a way that may endanger other
individuals or that obstructs the free passage or view of others attending or viewing the
meeting.
Verbal comments must be conducted in respectful speech with no personal attacks.
(3) If an individual engages in disruption of the meeting, including but not limited to any of the
actions described above, the presiding officer may rule the individual out of order, direct the
individual to cease the activity and impose other reasonable conditions for the individual's
continued presence at the meeting. If the individual does not immediately comply with the
presiding officer’s order, the presiding officer may direct the removal of the individual from the
meeting.
Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, any individual ordered to be
removed from a meeting is excluded from returning to that meeting, unless the decision of the
presiding officer is overruled by a majority vote of those members in attendance. Any two
members may place before the body the question of whether to permit the individual to return
to the same meeting.
(4) If an individual is removed either from two or more committee meetings within a fifteen day
period or from two or more consecutive meetings of the Board, the Board President may
exclude the individual from participation in public comment or testimony periods at future
Board or committee meetings.
a. The Board President shall notify the individual in writing of the type of exclusion, the
specific reasons for the exclusion and the specific terms and length of the exclusion.
b. The notice of exclusion shall advise that the individual may submit written comments to the
Clerk for distribution to the Board members at future public comment or testimony periods.

Page 3 of 5

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

c. The notice of exclusion shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall post it on the door to the
Board chambers and on the Board’s web page, provide a copy of the notice to Board
members and mail the notice to the individual's last known address, if any. The notice is
effective when posted.
The exclusion order shall remain posted on the door to the
chambers for the duration of the exclusion period.
(5) In determining the scope and length of an individual's exclusion allowed under subsection (i) of
this section 2-105, the Board President may consider the seriousness of the disruptions to the
orderly conduct of the meeting, the number of disruptions in which the individual participated
and other reasons deemed relevant by the President.
a. The Board President may issue an exclusion from future participation in public comment or
testimony periods for up to twenty-eight calendar days.
b. At the next regular meeting of the Board, following the filing and posting of the exclusion
notice, the exclusion order may be overruled or modified by a majority vote of those
Commissioners in attendance. Any two members may place before the body the question
of whether to overrule or modify the exclusion decision.
(6) Any individual excluded from participation in future public comment or testimony periods may
appeal the exclusion by submitting a written appeal to the Clerk within five calendar days
after the exclusion notice is posted. The Clerk shall distribute copies of the appeal to all
Board members. The Board shall consider the appeal at the next regularly scheduled Board
meeting if any two members place it before the body. The individual's exclusion from public
comment or testimony periods shall remain in effect during the Board’s consideration of the
appeal.
***
(l) Decorum.
(1) The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of order in
preference to other Commissioners, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
(2) In case of any disturbances or disorderly conduct the presiding officer shall have the power to
require the chamber to be cleared. If the disturbance is of a type described in subsection (i),
above, the provisions of that subsection shall apply.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 4 of 5

 Rules and Administration
Committee
Legislative History :

NOTICE AND AGENDA

December 13, 2017

11/15/17 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Rules and Administration Comm

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Daley
Members:
Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims

Page 5 of 5

 