Board of Commissioners of Cook County
118 North Clark Street
Chicago, IL

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

Wednesday, February 8, 2017
11:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
LUIS ARROYO, JR.
RICHARD R. BOYKIN
JERRY BUTLER
JOHN P. DALEY
JOHN A. FRITCHEY
BRIDGET GAINER
JESUS G. GARCIA
GREGG GOSLIN
EDWARD M. MOODY

STANLEY MOORE
SEAN M. MORRISON
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
ROBERT B. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Board met pursuant to law and pursuant to Resolution 17-0615.
OFFICIAL RECORD
President Preckwinkle in the chair.
CALL TO ORDER
At 11:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.
QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.

ATTENDANCE
Present: Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody, Moore,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (16)
Absent:

Commissioner Goslin (1)
INVOCATION

Pastor Shirley Hughes of Inspirational Deliverance Center Church of God in Christ, Chicago, Illinois, gave
the invocation.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and
special meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time
to deliver testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three (3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board
Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Mary Hartsfield, Warriors on the Watch
Reverend Dr. William E. Crowder, Jr, Senior Pastor, Park Manor Christian Church
Stephanie Kollmann, Policy Director, Children and Family Justice Center
Ev Anjel Mama Dee YHWHnew Bu, Concerned Citizen
Nicole Johnson, Concerned Citizen
George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
2

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017
PRESIDENT
17-1165

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA and
LUIS ARROYO JR, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ORDINANCE MODIFICATION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a “Fair and Equal County for Immigrants;” and
WHEREAS, the provision of Cook County benefits, opportunities, or services is not conditioned on matters
related to citizenship or immigration status; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Code currently contains multiple references to “citizen” instead of
“resident.”
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Administration, Article
IV, Officers and Employees, Division 5, Inspector General, Section 2-284(10) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-284. - Functions, authority and powers
In addition to other powers conferred herein, the OIIG shall have the following functions, authority
and powers:
***
(10)To create and maintain a toll-free "Office of the Independent Inspector General Hotline" for the
purpose of receiving citizen and employee reports of corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement,
unlawful political discrimination and misconduct. The identity of any individual placing a call to
the Office of the Inspector General Hotline shall be kept confidential during and after the
investigation of any complaint made by the caller, unless the caller consents to disclosure of his
or her name or disclosure of the caller's identity is otherwise required by law. Alternatively,
reports may be made anonymously.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Administration, Article V, Departments and Similar Agencies, Division 3, Bureau of Finance, Subdivision
III, Department of Revenue, Section 2-434(5) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-434. - Power and duties of Director of Revenue
The Department of Revenue shall have the following powers and duties:
3

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017
***

(5) To investigate, analyze and propose new revenue programs for the County toward the end that
the financial burdens of revenue, tax, license and permit fees may be equitably distributed among
the citizens ofwithin the County.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Administration, Article VII, Ethics, Division 3, Lobbyists, Subdivision II, Registration, Section 2-638 of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-638. - Right to petition County Officials
Nothing in this Division shall be construed to infringe in any way the right of a citizen to lawfully
petition a Commissioner or any other County Official as guaranteed by the constitutions of the United States
and the State.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Animals,
Article I, In General, Sections 10-1(1), and 10-3(b) of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 10-1. - Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to provide harmonious relationships in the interaction between human
and animal by:
(1) Protecting the citizens of the County from rabies by specifying such preventive and control
measures as may be necessary;
***
Sec. 10-3. - Violations
***
(b) The Administrator or State's Attorney or any citizen of the County may maintain aA complaint may
be brought in the Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin all persons in the control of a dangerous
animal from allowing or permitting such animal to leave their premises when not under the control of
a leash and muzzle or other recognized methods of physical restraint.
***

4

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Animals,
Article III, Vicious and Dangerous Dogs, Section 10-78(d) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 10-78. - Declaration of a "vicious" dog
***
(d) In order to have a dog deemed "vicious" a complaint must be filed by the County Department of
Animal Control, the Office of the State's Attorney, any citizen of the County, or any victim of a dog
attack if such attack occurred within the County, in the Circuit Court of the County to deem a dog a
"vicious" dog.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14,
Community Development, Article IX, Commission on Social Innovation, Section 14-92(f) of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 14-92. - Purpose
The purpose of this article is to create the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation, which shall
engage in the following activities:
***
(f) The commission shall identify useful strategies to educate and trainprovide education and training
concerning citizens, nonprofit organizations, governments, students, and businesses on
entrepreneurial concepts specifically as applied in the social sector.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26,
Emergency Management and Services, Article III, 9-1-1 Surcharge, Section 26-80 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 26-80. - Limitation on use of County funds
The County shall not expend any County funds for the implementation, installation and
maintenance or other related costs attributable to providing a 9-1-1 emergency system for the citizens of
the County. However, the County may pay for the personnel necessary to operate the 9-1-1 system.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance,
Article IV, Procurement Code, Division 8, Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprises, Subdivision
I, General Provisions, Section 34-263 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
5

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Sec. 34-263. - Definitions
Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias
within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual
qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control. A Socially Disadvantaged
natural person must be a citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident of the United States.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance,
Article IV, Procurement Code, Division 8, Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprises, Subdivision
II, Participation in Cook County Public Works Contracts, Section 34-290 of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-290. - Definitions
Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias
within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual
qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control. A Socially Disadvantaged
natural person must be a citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident of the United States.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human
Relations, Article II, Human Rights, Section 42-34(e)(2) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 42-34. - Commission on Human Rights
The organization and administration of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall be
sufficiently independent to assure that no interference or influence external to the office adversely affects
the independence and objectivity of the Commission on Human Rights.
***
(e) Additional powers and duties. The Commission shall have such additional powers and duties as
reasonably flow from its responsibilities, including but not limited to:
***
(2) Advising and consulting with the President, the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and
officials, departments, and agencies of the County government on assuring and improving the
equality of services to all citizens.
***

6

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46, Law
Enforcement, Article IV, Jail Diversion Program, Division 2, Program Established, Section 46-201(7) of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 46-201. - Purpose
The purposes of the County Jail Diversion Program are to:
***
(7) Improve positive relationships between target population citizens and law enforcement officers.
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article II, Dance Halls and Roadhouses, Division 2,
License, Section 54-61 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 54-61. - License required
No citizen, firm or corporationperson of this State shall operate a public dance hall or roadhouse used
for public dances in the County, and outside the limits of any city, town or village, without first having
obtained a County roadhouse license for each location of any roadhouse or dance hall.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article IV, Outdoor Movie Theaters, Division 2, License,
Section 54-271 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 54-271. - Required
No citizen, firm or corporationperson of this State shall operate a public outdoor movie theater used
for public viewing of motion pictures or city, town, or village, without first having obtained an outdoor
movie theater license for each location.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Licenses,
Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article X, General Business Licenses, Section 54-381 of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 54-381. - Purpose
The Cook County Board of Commissioners determines that in order to effectively protect the public
health, general welfare, and safety of its citizens it has deemed it necessary to establish a General Business
License for Unincorporated Cook County for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.

7

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 78,
Telecommunications, Article II, Cable Television Ordinance, Section 78-41(4) of the Cook County Code
is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 78-41. - Purpose
The purpose of this article is to:
***
(3) Provide for the development of cable television as a means to improve communication between
and among the citizenspersons and public institutions of the County; and
***
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 82, Traffic
and Vehicles, Article I, County Vehicle Code, Section 82-2 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 82-2. - Purpose
In order to better promote the public safety, health, and welfare of its citizens thisThis Vehicle Code
was established for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. This Vehicle Code will apply
to:
(1) Properties owned and managed by Cook County;
(2) Private properties and roads within Cook County whereby the County has entered into an
agreement to enforce parking and/or traffic regulations; and
(3) Public Properties and public ways, streets and highways located in incorporated areas of Cook
County, whereby the County has entered into an intergovernmental agreement to enforce parking
and/or traffic regulations.
(4) Public ways, streets and highways under the jurisdiction of the County located in unincorporated
areas of the County.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part II, Land
Development Ordinances, Appendix A, Zoning, Article 5, Commercial Districts, Section 5.0 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
5.0. - Purpose
The commercial district regulations are intended to govern the location, intensity and method of
development for business and commercial uses serving the citizens ofwithin Cook County. Regulations
provide for groupings of business and commercial uses that are compatible with the type of commodity
sold, the scope of services provided and the method of operations. All business and commercial uses are
contained in the following eight commercial districts:
8

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

C-1 Restricted Business District
C-2 Restricted Office District
C-3 General Service District
C-4 General Commercial District
C-5 Commercial Transition District
C-6 Automotive Service District
C-7 Office/Research Park District
C-8 Intensive Commercial District
For purposes of determining the restrictiveness of the eight commercial zoning districts, each of the districts
shall be deemed independently and equally restrictive.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part II, Land
Development Ordinances, Appendix A, Zoning, Article 11, Off-Street Parking and Loading Space, Section
11.2.6(A)(7) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
11.2. - Off-Street Parking Space
11.2.6. Space requirements. All off-street parking space shall meet the following minimum requirements:
A. Residential uses.
***
7. Senior citizen housing. One off-street parking space shall be provided for every three dwelling
units.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
___________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner García, that the Proposed
Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Workforce, Housing and Community Development
Committee. The motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS
17-1607
Sponsored by: LUIS ARROYO JR, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COUNTY VEHICLE POLICY
9

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article VIII, County
Vehicle Policy, Section 2-672. - Responsibilities of elected officials, departments, and employees and
assignment of Vehicle Coordinator, Section 2-673. - Authorized use of County vehicles, and Sec. 2-673. Authorized use of County vehicles are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-672. - Responsibilities of elected officials, departments, and employees and assignment of
Vehicle Coordinator.
(a) Bureau chiefs, department heads, and elected officials are responsible for ensuring shall ensure that
Vehicle Steering Committee policies and procedures are administered and adhered to by employees within
their offices. Failure of Bureau Chiefs, Department Heads, and Elected Officials to provide information in
accordance with this article shall result in the Department's inability to acquire County vehicles, and other
actions deemed necessary by the Vehicle Steering Committee, until this information is received.
(b) Vehicle Coordinator.
(1) Each Elected Official or Department Head will designate one employee to be the Vehicle
Coordinator for the office. On January 1 of each year, the name, title, email address, and telephone
number of the Vehicle Coordinator shall be filed with the Chairman of the Vehicle Steering
Committee. The Coordinator may be asked to attend meetings of the Vehicle Steering Committee
as required to review purchase requests, department inventories, review vehicle use issues,
maintenance records and other matters pertaining to this article.
(2) Department Vehicle Coordinators are to ensure the following procedures are in place within the
Department and shall be responsible for keeping all records and preparing all reports required
under this article. All forms and database formats required under these guidelines will be
provided by the Vehicle Steering Committee. Vehicle Coordinators shall:
a. Retain on file a copy of the valid license of each employee authorized to drive a County
vehicle or a personal vehicle for which the employee receives mileage reimbursement. The
employee must at all times hold a valid proper class license for the vehicle operated that is
not revoked or under suspension.
b. Ensure all employees authorized take home vehicle privileges comply with IRS Rules on tax
treatment of employee vehicle fringe benefits associated with take-home privileges.
c. Maintain an updated vehicle inventory, accident logs, vehicle use logs and insurance cards
in the form and format established by the Vehicle Steering Committee.
d. Follow procedures established by the Sheriff's Vehicle Services Division and approved by
the Vehicle Steering Committee to ensure vehicles follow proper preventative and other
maintenance schedules. Failure to follow established procedures may result in suspension or
elimination of vehicle privileges.

10

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

e. Coordinate with internal agency/department staff and track resolution of emission testing
notifications, vehicle registrations, vehicle recalls, moving violations, administrative
violations, driver complaints, maintenance complaints and other critical safety issues.
(c) The Bureau of Human Resources shall consult correspond on a monthly basis with the Illinois
Secretary of State to check the license status of all employees required to operate vehicles as part of their
job duties except for employees of the Sheriff's Office and State's Attorney. The Sheriff's Office and State's
Attorney shall consult on a monthly basis with the Illinois Secretary of State to check on the license status
of its employees, including undercover officers, and shall maintain such files internally. The Bureau of
Human Resources file is to be reviewed and updated on no less than a monthly basis and forwarded to the
respective agencies for review and any subsequent action.
All prospective employees who are professional drivers or whose primary duty is the operation of a
vehicle shall be required to submit a valid driver's license prior to the time of hire. Each agency's Human
Resources, as part of a pre-employment background investigation, shall coordinate driver checks. Failure
to have a valid driver's license of the proper type, or the existence of a disqualifying driver's record will be
grounds to withdraw the conditional offer of employment.
(d) The Sheriff's Vehicle Services Division shall:
(1) Establish and communicate vehicle maintenance procedures and routine maintenance schedules.
(2) Record and track all vehicle related data including odometer reading, dates and costs of all
maintenance services, vehicle utilization data, fuel management, accident history as reported by
the using agency/investigating agency, etc.
(3) Salvage vehicles as needed.
(e) The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer shall:
(1) Obtain and maintain all vehicle titles for all County owned vehicles; and
(2) Maintain a copy of all vehicle leasing agreements.
(3) Promulgate and distribute procedures regarding (a) obtaining and verifying receipt of vehicle
titles; and (b) providing copies of vehicle titles to third parties for vehicles which have been
declared surplus.
Sec. 2-673. - Authorized use of County vehicles.
(a) County owned or leased vehicles shall be used only for conducting official County business.
(b) County owned vehicles shall not be authorized for use until they are in compliance with all
onboarding requirements including proper licensing, municipal sticker, valid insurance card, proper decals
and markings as established by the Sheriff's Vehicle Services Division and approved by the Vehicle
Steering Committee. Only vehicles that have been authorized by an elected official or department head,
11

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

have VIN numbers registered in the County Office of the Chief Procurement Officer, carry a valid insurance
card issued to the Department by the Department of Risk Management, and meet all other requirements of
this section shall be considered County vehicles for use in the course of conducting official County business.
(c) Unless expressly exempted by the Department Head, and approved by the Vehicle Steering
Committee, all County vehicles must carry a municipal license plate.
(d) All County owned vehicles shall be equipped with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology.
The Vehicle Steering Committee shall develop policy related to vehicle GPS.
(e) There shall be a telephone hotline which members of the public may call to report incidents
involving County vehicles.
(f) The Inspector General shall have the responsibility of investigating any reports of misuse of County
vehicles and shall submit an annual report to the Vehicle Steering Committee and County Board.
(g) With the exception of law enforcement vehicles equipped for undercover, special crimes units and
surveillance purposes, all County vehicles shall be emblazoned on both sides with the County name,
corporate seal, name of the Department to which the vehicle is assigned, vehicle hotline telephone number,
and a short statement identifying the hotline to the general public (e.g., "To report incidents involving this
vehicle, call (telephone number)"). Except as otherwise provided, exemptions must be requested by the
Department Head and approved by the Vehicle Steering Committee and may only be granted where the
anonymity of the vehicle is required.
(h) Vehicle usage logs must be maintained for each pooled County vehicle and include the following
information: name of driver; date used; beginning and ending odometer reading; destination; purpose of
use. Where the anonymity of the vehicle and the driver is required, law enforcement vehicles shall be
exempt from disclosure of destination information.
(i) Only authorized passengers are permitted to ride in County vehicles. Non-County individuals such
as volunteers, spouses, and children should not be passengers in a County vehicle unless they are involved
in the conduct of business.
(j) County vehicles are to be assigned to individuals who, in the required course of their employment,
need vehicles to complete their required duties on behalf of the County government.
(k) Eligibility for County vehicle assignment.
(1) Take-home assignment. A County vehicle other than a passenger vehicle may be assigned to
employees in a service, management or supervisory position on call 24 hours a day, responsible
for providing or supporting emergency services. A county passenger vehicle may be assigned to
an employee as a take-home vehicle only where the employee travels frequently after-hours on
behalf of the County, and it is less expensive to assign a take-home vehicle rather than reimburse
the employee for use of a personal vehicle. There is a strong presumption against any take-home
passenger vehicle assignments. A vehicle disclosure form shall be used and remain on file in the
Department for all "take-home" vehicles.
12

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

(2) Approval of take-home passenger vehicle assignments. All current passenger vehicle assignments
are subject to the review and approval of the Vehicle Steering Committee. All future take home
vehicle assignments require the prior approval of the Vehicle Steering Committee.
(23) Pool assignment. Pool vehicles are to be assigned on a periodic basis to individuals when the
County work assignment requires a vehicle in order to properly conduct County business. A
vehicle disclosure form and daily log shall be used and remain on file in the Department for all
pool vehicles which are taken home overnight. Those employees authorized for overnight use of
County vehicles shall, when away from work for an extended period of time, for vacation, sick
leave, compensatory time off, travel, etc., return the assigned County vehicle to the custody of
his/her department head during the period of absence.
a. No person shall be authorized to drive a County vehicle unless he/she:
1. Possesses a current, valid driver's license with the correct class for the vehicle driven.
2. Is the age of 18 or older.
3. Meets rental requirements as specified by rental/leasing agencies.
4. Is free of any prior convictions for driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs,
or of reckless driving within the previous year. Employees operating a commercial
vehicle must comply with all of the requirements of the Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986.
5. Any employee performing work which requires the operation of a County-owned vehicle
or a private vehicle at County expense shall notify his/her immediate supervisor
immediately of any current restrictions or changes in driving privileges, including, but
not limited to, revocation, suspension, cancellation, denial, Restricted Driving Permit,
Judicial Driving Permit, Probationary License, Family Financial Responsibility Driving
Permit, leaving the scene of an accident, refusal or neglect to report a traffic accident,
traffic violations, unpaid traffic citations, failure of vehicle titled in the employee's name
to pass the vehicle emissions testing, or unpaid parking citations for a vehicle titled in
the employee's name. Any restrictions or changes to driving privileges shall be reported
by the employee to the employee's Bureau Chief or Elected Official immediately and a
record maintained in the department. Any employee who fails to report, and/or continues
to operate a vehicle in the performance of County duties, is subject to disciplinary action
up to and including termination from County employment.
b. Use of private vehicles for County business:
1. County employees, with the prior permission of their Department Head, may use their
private vehicle to conduct official County business. Department Heads shall only
approve the use of private vehicles for County business when it is in the best interest of
the County to do so.
13

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

2. A valid proof of insurance is required to operate a private vehicle, which includes
coverage of passengers and a copy must be kept in the vehicle and must be filed with the
Department's Vehicle Coordinator.
3. Employees authorized to use their personal vehicles for County business shall comply
with the following insurance requirements:
(i) County employees who drive a private vehicle for official County business shall have
at least the minimum auto insurance for private vehicles as required by the State of
Illinois.
(ii) The employee's vehicle insurance policy must be issued by a company that is
licensed by the department of insurance for the issuing state.
(iii) In the event a County employee is involved in an accident while driving his/her own
vehicle, the employee's personal insurance provides the primary coverage.
(iv) Mileage reimbursement rates will be based on the Cook County Travel and Expense
Reimbursement Policy.
Sec. 2-674. - Miscellaneous rules.
(a) Traffic laws and regulations. Drivers of County vehicles shall observe all traffic laws and
regulations. Drivers and passengers in County vehicles shall wear seat belts at all times and shall observe
safe driving practices. All drivers of a County vehicle involved in accidents and those who have been fined
for or charged with a traffic violation may be required to attend a driving safety training class.
(b) Use of tobacco products. Use of tobacco products and electronic vapor cigarettes is prohibited in
County vehicles.
(c) Engine idling. Except for purposes of law enforcement including, but not limited to, surveillance
and radar gun use activities, the driver of a County vehicle must turn off the engine upon stopping at a
destination and must not cause or allow an engine to idle at any location for more than five consecutive
minutes or a period or periods aggregating more than five minutes in any one-hour period, except when
idling is absolutely necessary for the conduct of County business, for personal safety, or to comply with
traffic laws and law enforcement personnel.
(d) Liability for damages. The County shall not be liable for injuries or damages arising from activities
outside the scope of employment including, but not limited to, personal use of rented vehicles by employees
during a County-authorized business trip. Any damages arising from these circumstances are the
responsibility of the employee. To the extent that the County incurs financial liability for the acts of
employees which occur outside the scope of employment, Cook County reserves the right to seek
reimbursement from the responsible person.

14

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

(e) Insurance. The State of Illinois requires that all vehicles have an Illinois Insurance Card at all
times. The County Self-Insurance Program is administered by the Department of Risk Management General
Liability Division, which will issue a proof of insurance card for each County-owned vehicle. Only vehicles
which are included in the County (owned) vehicle inventory shall be registered with the Department of Risk
Management for insurance purposes.
(f) Traffic violations. Employees shall be held personally responsible for all parking and/or traffic
violations incurred while operating a county owned or leased vehicle. The applicable employing
Department shall seek reimbursement on behalf of Cook County for County paid parking or traffic
violations from the employee responsible for the County paid parking or traffic violation. Failure of an
employee to reimburse the County for such offense shall be deemed a major cause infraction and result in
discipline up to and including termination. At no time will County funds be used directly or indirectly to
pay or reimburse an employee for parking or traffic violations.
(g) Article not intended to enlarge current County liability, etc., to employees. Nothing in this article
is intended or shall be construed to extend or enlarge the obligations, liability, or responsibilities that the
County currently has to employees, or third parties, by law or contract, if any, in regard to the operation of
motor vehicles.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-1347
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION ACT AUTHORITY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14 Cook County
Neighborhood Revitalization Act Authority, Article I Sections 100-155 of the Cook County Code is hereby
enacted as Follows:
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
Sec. 14-100. - Short title.
Sec. 14-101. - Declaration.
Sec. 14-102. - Definitions.
Sec. 14-103. - Purpose.
15

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Sec. 14-104. - Creation and legal status of CCNRA Authority.
Sec. 14-105. - Principal office.
Sec. 14-106. - Title to CCNRA Authority assets.
Sec. 14-107. - Tax-exempt status.
Sec. 14-108. - Waiver of special assessments.
Sec. 14-109. - Compliance with law.
Sec. 14-110. - No third-party beneficiaries.
ARTICLE II. - CCNRA AUTHORITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STAFF
Sec. 14-112. - Cook County CCNRA Authority

Board of Directors.

Sec. 14-113. - Appointment of members.
Sec. 14-114. - Term of office.
Sec. 14-115. - Chairperson/members of the board of directors.
Sec. 14-116. - Removal.
Sec. 14-117. - Vacancies.
Sec. 14-118. - Meetings.
Sec. 14-119. - Bylaws, and policies and procedures.
Sec. 14-120. - Quorum and voting.
Sec. 14-121. - Records of meetings.
Sec. 14-122. - Board of Directors responsibilities.
Sec. 14-123. - Board of Directors actions.
Sec. 14-124. - Fiduciary duty.
Sec. 14-125. - Compensation.
Sec. 14-126. - Executive Director.
16

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Sec. 14-127. - Staffing services.
Sec. 14-128. - Ethics and oversight.
Sec. 14-129. - Indemnification.
ARTICLE III. - GENERAL POWERS OF CCNRA AUTHORITY
Sec. 14-130. - General powers.
Sec. 14-131. - No waiver of governmental immunity.
Sec. 14-132. - Non-discrimination.
ARTICLE IV. - REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION, MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSITION
Sec. 14-133. - Acquisition of real property.
Sec. 14-134. - Construction Contracts for New Homes on Real Property
Sec. 14-135. - Execution of legal documents relating to property.
Sec. 14-136. - Holding and managing property.
Sec. 14-137. - Property disposition.
Sec. 14-138. - Criteria for conveyance.
Sec. 14-139. - Transactions.
Sec. 14-140. - Disposition of proceeds.
ARTICLE V. - INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Sec. 14-141. - Intergovernmental agreements.
ARTICLE VI. - BOOKS, RECORDS, FINANCES AND EXPENDITURES
Sec. 14-142. - CCNRA Authority records.
Sec. 14-143. - Financial statements and reports.
Sec. 14-144. - Annual budget.
Sec. 14-145. - Deposits and investments.
17

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Sec. 14-146. - Disbursements.
Sec. 14-147. - Performance objectives.
Sec. 14-148. - Annual report.
Sec. 14-149. - Management of funds.
Sec. 14-150. - Authorized expenditures.
ARTICLE VII. - DISSOLUTION, DISTRIBUTION OF ASSETS
Sec. 14-151. - Dissolution.
Sec. 14-152. - Distribution of assets.
ARTICLE VIII. - MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 14-153. - Interpretation of ordinance.
Sec. 14-154. - Severability of provisions.
Sec. 14.155. - Terminology.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
THE FULLTEXT OF THIS ORDINANCE CAN BE FOUND AT: <http://tinyurl.com/hfx83ln>
________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that the
Proposed Ordinance be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-1636
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO, JR, JERRY BUTLER,
JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA,
EDWARD M. MOODY, DEOBORAH SIMS AND ROBERT B. STEELE,
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
A RESOLUTION CALLING ON THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
18

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

TO CONTINUE FEDERAL RESOURCES FOR
HEALTHCARE, PUBLIC SAFETY AND JOB READINESS IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, with a population of 5.3 million, Cook County is the second largest county in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, Cook County operates the largest county public hospital system in the nation through the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System (“CCHHS”); and
WHEREAS, the Federal Government has supplied more than $500 million in support to CCHHS last year;
and
WHEREAS, Cook County operates the largest trial court system in the nation; and
WHEREAS, Cook County operates the largest single-site jail complex in the nation; and
WHEREAS, the Federal Government has supplied more than $200 million in support to county entities
including the Circuit Court of Cook County and the Cook County Jail last year; and
WHEREAS, Cook County, through the Justice Advisory Council and the Chicago Cook Workforce
Partnership, has provided anti-violence intervention, workforce development services including: job
training and job placement programs to more than 100,000 residents of Cook County annually; and
WHEREAS, all communities in Cook County are in need of anti-violence and job training resources; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners urges the federal government to support federal
anti-gun trafficking legislation that would stop the flow of illegal weapons into Cook County and make
firearms trafficking a federal crime; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners also requests that the federal government preserve
and increase the Affordable Care Act coverage options that ensure medical coverage for mental health and
substance abuse treatment in Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the federal government should provide additional resources to hospitals in Cook County to
assist in establishing specialized trauma units in which to treat victims of violence; and
WHEREAS, additional federal resources should also come in the form of economic investment in all Cook
County communities; and
WHEREAS, the federal government can assist the Circuit Court of Cook County and local law
enforcement by utilizing federal resources to help protect the public health, strengthen our courts, provide
jobs and help local police officers in curbing violence with improved data efforts, technology and training;
and

19

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

WHEREAS, it is vital that elected officials in their leadership capacities provide the crucial moral and
public support to law enforcement officials as they undertake the difficult and dangerous task of combatting
the epidemic of violence; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has and will continue to apply for federal grants to ensure continuation of
programs to support its public health, public safety and workforce programs.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners and President of the Board
that this Resolution serves as a formal request to the federal government to continue providing additional
resources to protect the public health, strengthen our courts, provide jobs and to fight the violence plaguing
Cook County.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioners Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Proposed Resolution be approved.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the
Substitute Proposed Resolution be accepted. Commissioner Boykin called for a Roll Call, the votes
of yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO ACCEPT SUBSTITUTE
Yeas:

Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Moody, Moore,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (12)

Nays:

Commissioners Boykin, Morrison, Schneider and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Goslin (1)

The motion to accept the substitute Proposed Resolution CARRIED.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Proposed
Resolution be approved as substituted. Commissioner Schneider called for a Roll Call, the votes of
yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE AS SUBSTITUTED
Yeas:

Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Moody, Moore, Silvestri, Sims,
Steele and Suffredin (11)
20

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Nays:

Commissioners Boykin, Morrison, Schneider and Tobolski (4)

Absent:

Commissioners Gainer and Goslin (2)

The motion CARRIED and the Resolution was approved and adopted, as substituted.

17-1591
Presented by: DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED NO CASH BID REQUEST
Requestor: Wally Bobkiewicz, City Manager, City of Evanston
Request: Approval of No Cash Bid Request
Location:

City of Evanston

Volume and Property Index Number:
053, 10-13-203-021-0000; 053, 10-13-203-024-0000; 053, 10-13-204-021-0000; 053,
10-13-204-022-0000; 053, 10-13-204-023-0000; 054, 10-13-406-018-0000; 054, 10-13-407-015-0000;
054, 10-13-413-011-0000.
Summary: The City of Evanston is interested in participating in the 2017 No Cash Bid Program to
acquire tax delinquent vacant land that will be redeveloped as affordable housing and green space in west
Evanston based on the West Evanston Master Plan (WEMP) that was generated following a robust
community engagement process and approved by the Evanston City Council. This Request Package
contains eight (8) PINs that are listed in order by volume number and PIN.
The first five PINs comprise vacant land that was part of, or adjacent to, the former Mayfair railroad right
of way between Foster and Simpson Streets and Ashland Avenue and Green Bay Road. Several parcels
are buildable lots for affordable housing and others would be redeveloped as green space based on
the
WEMP. The last three PINs are segments of the former railroad right of way between Davis Street and
the alley north of Grove Street that would be redeveloped as green space, including pedestrian and bike
paths, with east-west pedestrian/bike connections at Davis and Grove Streets, which currently dead end
near Evanston Township High School.
The City will file for tax exempt status on all of the parcels for as long as the City retains ownership. The
City does not have an agreement with a third party to convey the parcels or for redevelopment at this
time. The City will bear all legal costs and expenses to obtain the tax deed and clear title to the acquired
parcels. The City agrees to submit to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development an annual
report on the status of the parcels acquired through the No Cash Bid program for five years or until
development is completed, whichever occurs last.
21

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017
_____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the No
Bid Request be referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Tax Delinquency. The motion carried.
17-1592
Presented by: DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED NO CASH BID REQUEST
Requestor: Wally Bobkiewicz, City Manager, City of Evanston
Request: Approval of No Cash Bid Request
Location: City of Evanston
Volume and Property Index Number:
054, 10-13-318-031-0000.
Summary: The City of Evanston is interested in participating in the 2017 No Cash Bid Program to
acquire tax delinquent vacant land that will be redeveloped as affordable housing and green space in west
Evanston based on the West Evanston Master Plan (WEMP) that was generated following a robust
community engagement process and approved by the Evanston City Council. This Request Package
contains one (1) PIN that is listed.
The PIN was part of the former Mayfair railroad right of way between Lake and Greenwood Streets. The
north end of the parcel would be redeveloped as an attractive streetscape similar to that on the east side of
Dodge Avenue. The parcel extends as part of the proposed bike/pedestrian greenway that follows the
railroad right of way in the WEMP.
The City will file for tax exempt status on all of the parcels for as long as the City retains ownership. The
City does not have an agreement with a third party to convey the parcels or for redevelopment at this
time. The City will bear all legal costs and expenses to obtain the tax deed and clear title to the acquired
parcels. The City agrees to submit to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development an annual
report on the status of the parcels acquired through the No Cash Bid program for five years or until
development is completed, whichever occurs last.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the No
Bid Request be referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Tax Delinquency. The motion carried.

17-1593
22

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Presented by: DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED NO CASH BID REQUEST
Requestor: Wally Bobkiewicz, City Manager, City of Evanston
Request: Approval of No Cash Bid Request
Location: City of Evanston
Volume and Property Index Number:
053, 10-13-214-002-0000; 053, 10-13-220-035-0000.
Summary: The City of Evanston is interested in participating in the 2017 No Cash Bid Program to
acquire tax delinquent vacant land that will be redeveloped as affordable housing and green space in west
Evanston based on the West Evanston Master Plan (WEMP) that was generated following a robust
community engagement process and approved by the Evanston City Council. This Request Package
contains two (2) PINs that that are listed in order by volume number and PIN.
The first PIN is suitable for redevelopment as a single family home. The second would be redeveloped as
multi-family housing or as a mixed use building with retail/commercial on the ground floor. The City
owns parcels adjacent to this parcel that would be aggregated for development.
The City will file for tax exempt status on all of the parcels for as long as the City retains ownership. The
City does not have an agreement with a third party to convey the parcels or for redevelopment at this
time. The City will bear all legal costs and expenses to obtain the tax deed and clear title to the acquired
parcels. The City agrees to submit to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development an annual
report on the status of the parcels acquired through the No Cash Bid program for five years or until
development is completed, whichever occurs last.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the No
Bid Request be referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Tax Delinquency. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER
17-1350
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
23

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Department: Comptroller’s Office
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims
Report Period: 12/29/2016-1/18/2017
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Report be
received and filed. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT
17-0049
Presented by: DONNA M. ALEXANDER, VMD, Administrator, Department of Animal and Rabies
Control
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Animal and Rabies Control
Action: Bill Payment
Payee: Animal Welfare League, Chicago Ridge, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Medical care and housing of injured and stray animals picked up by CCARC
Fiscal Impact: $8,265.00
24

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Accounts: 260-520
Contract Nnmber(s): N/A
Summary: Animal Welfare League has continued to provide essential services of housing and caring for
animals picked up for the Department of Animal and Rabies Control while the terms and conditions for a
new contract were finalized.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Payment
Approval be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER
17-0790
Presented by: PONNI ARUNKUMAR, M.D. Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Vendor: National Medical Services, Inc., Willow Grove, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Forensic Toxicological Testing Services
Contract Value: $1,611,880.00
Contract period: 2/20/2017 - 2/19/2019, with two (2), two (2) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $634,455.03; FY 2018 $805,940.04; FY 2019
$171,484.93
Accounts: 259-278
Contract Number(s): 1618-15849
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
25

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Cook County Medical Examiner is requesting a contract with National Medical Services,
Inc. to perform all forensic testing in accordance with the National Association of Medical Examiners
(NAME) recommendation to use an accredited toxicology laboratory to ensure NAME/ISO (International
Organization for Standardization) accreditation. National Medical Services, Inc. is the only
outside
laboratory that is accredited by the American Board of Forensic Toxicology (ABFT) and the American
Society of Crime Laboratory Directors Laboratory Accreditation Board (ASCLD/LAB), as well as being
the only private postmortem toxicology laboratory that carries the Illinois State Police Certification
for
Alcohol.
This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Contract be
approved. The motion carried.
17-1150
Presented by: PONNI ARUNKUMAR, M.D. Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Vendor: Morgan Cremation Service, Northlake, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Cremation Services
Original Contract Period: 2/5/2016 - 2/4/2018, with two (2), two (2) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $87,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/5/2016, $87,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A

26

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

This Increase Requested: $100,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $70,000.00, FY 2018 $30,000.00
Accounts: 259-237
Contract Number(s): 1584-15103
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase will allow the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office to continue to receive
cremation services for indigent decedents. The number of cremations have increased due to the unforeseen
increase in deaths in Cook County.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Morgan Cremation Service was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS
17-0043
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Morton Salt, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Furnish and Deliver Bulk Rock Salt
Location: Countywide Roadways
27

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

County Board District: Districts 1 - 17
Section: 16-SALT-00-GM
Contract Value: $4,507,800.00
Contract period: 2/15/2017 - 2/14/2020 with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $2,370,000.00
Accounts: 600-585
Contract Number(s): 1628-15809
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways requests authorization for the Chief
Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Morton Salt, Inc., to furnish and deliver
bulk rock salt to various Highway districts. The rock salt will be utilized to maintain County roadways
during winter operations.
This is a Comparable Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
Morton Salt, Inc. was previously awarded a contract by the City of Chicago through a competitive bid
process. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement effort.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Contract
be approved. The motion carried.
17-1056
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
28

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Request: Approval of Intergovernmental Maintenance Agreement
Goods or Services: Forest Preserve District of Cook County shall maintain the creek vegetation along
the north side of Central Road after two (2) years of completion of the project
Location: Villages of Hoffman Estates and Schaumburg, Illinois
Section: 16-A6110-00-RP
Centerline Mileage: 0.653 miles
County Board District: 14 and 15
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time Agreement
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests
approval of the proposed intergovernmental agreement with Forest Preserve District of Cook County.
The Department of Transportation and Highways shall be a lead agent for construction of the project and
shall maintain the creek vegetation along the north side of Central Road for two (2) years after
completion of the project. The Forest Preserve District of Cook County shall maintain the creek
vegetation along the north side of Central Road after two (2) years of completion of the project.
17-1056
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

29

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

RESOLVED by the members of The Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, on behalf
of the County of Cook, to authorize and direct its President to execute, by original signature or
authorized signature stamp, two (2) copies of an Intergovernmental Maintenance Agreement with the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County, said agreement attached, wherein the Cook County
Department of Transportation and Highways will be the lead agency for construction of an
improvement along Central Road from Ela Road to Roselle Road, Section: 16-A6110-00-RP; that
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County shall maintain the creek vegetation along north side of
Central Road after two years of completion of the project; and, the Department of Transportation
and Highways is authorized and directed to return one (1) executed copy of this Resolution with
Agreement to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County and implement the terms of the Agreement.
February 8, 2017
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried.
17-1138
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Wheeling, Illinois
Request: Approval of Agreement
Goods or Services: Jurisdictional Transfer of Weiland Road from Lake-Cook County Line to McHenry
Road from Village of Wheeling to County
Location: Village of Wheeling
Section Number: 14-A5015-03-RP and 14-A5015-04-RP
County Board District: 14
Centerline Mileage: 0.13 miles
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $1,220,000.00
30

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Accounts: 600-685
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the proposed
agreement for jurisdictional Transfer of Weiland Road from Lake-Cook County Line to McHenry Road
from the Village of Wheeling to Cook County that will be effective upon award of the construction contract
by the County for Section Numbers 14-A5015-03-RP and 14-A5015-04-RP.
17-1138
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Resolved by the members of The Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, on behalf of the
County of Cook, to authorize and direct its President to execute, by original signature or authorized
signature stamp, five (5) copies of a Local Agency Agreement for Jurisdictional Transfer with the
Village of Wheeling, wherein the County of Cook shall assume jurisdiction and maintenance of Weiland
Road as County Highway W17 from Lake-Cook County Line southwesterly 0.13 miles to the north edge
of pavement of McHenry Road (IL-83), in its entirety, adding Weiland Road to the County Highway
System of Cook County, the roadway will be referred to as CH W17, upon award of construction
contract, affixes signature to said Local Agency Agreement; and, the Department of Transportati on and
Highways is directed to forward five (5) executed copies of the Agreement to the Illinois Department
of Transportation for approval.
February 8, 2017
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Agreement
be approved. The motion carried.

17-1140
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): State of Illinois
Request: Approval of Agreement

31

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Goods or Services: The State of Illinois will pay up to a maximum of $3,120,000.00 towards
construction costs for the Happ Road over Skokie River project.
Location: Village of Winnetka, Illinois
Section Number: 16-W4043-00-BR
County Board District: 13
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $3,900,000.00
Accounts: 600-685
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed agreement where Cook County will be the lead agency for construction improvements along
Happ Road over the Skokie River. The State will pay up to a maximum of $3,120,000.00 towards the
project construction costs. The County will be responsible for the remaining balance of costs that are
estimated at $780,000.00.

17-1140
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RESOLVED, that the President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, on
behalf of the County of Cook, is hereby authorized and directed by the Members of said Board,
to execute by original signature or authorized signature stamp, six (6) copies of a
LOCAL AGENCY AGREEMENT FOR FEDERAL PARTICIPATION, Federal Project BRS4003(850) with the State of Illinois, attached, wherein Cook County will be the lead agency for
construction improvements along Happ Road over Skokie River, to be identified as Cook
County Section: 16-W4043-00-BR (estimated construction cost $3,900,000.00); that the
State will reimburse Cook County up to a maximum $3, 120,000.00 and the
County of Cook shall be responsible for the remaining balance (estimated $780,000.00); and,
32

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

the Department of Transportation and Highways is authorized and directed to forward five (5)
copies of this Resolution with Agreement to the Illinois Department of Transportation for
approval and implement a contract at the Department's discretion.
February 8, 2017
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Agreement
be approved. The motion carried.
17-1306
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): United States Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration
(FHWA)
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Federal Highway Administration’s Local Empowerment for Accelerating
Projects (LEAP) Pilot Program.
Location: Various Locations throughout the County of Cook
Section: 17-LEAPP-00-EG
Fiscal Impact: $870,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a resolution
appropriating funds for participation in the Federal Highway Administration’s Local Empowerment for
Accelerating Projects (LEAP) Pilot Program. The purpose of this appropriation is as follows:
The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) has created a five-year pilot program for Local Public
Agencies (LPAs) to receive federal funding directly instead of via the state’s Department of
Transportation to accelerate project delivery. The Cook County Department of Transportation and
Highways (DOTH) has recently been selected as a potential finalist for the LEAP Pilot Program. One of
the conditions of advancing the County’s application is a commitment from the LPA to contribute from
non-federal funds an amount equal to 1 percent (1%) of federal funds transferred from FHWA. These
funds will cover the cost of FHWA’s direct stewardship and oversight of federally funded transportation
33

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

projects that would have otherwise been provided by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
The objectives of this appropriation are to: First is to secure a direct flow of federal transportation funds
to Cook County; and Second is to streamline the federal project review and approval process so as to
achieve an estimated savings of $16 million in reduced costs from quicker delivery. Participation in
LEAP will also allow DOTH to use innovative alternative designs permitted by the FAST Act and
facilitate greater access to design-build contracting methods, both of which are not easily utilized under
existing Illinois law. Further, this participation is in accordance with County goals and the Department’s
mission.
I respectfully request that the Resolution be adopted and forwarded to the Illinois Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways, for approval. A copy of this resolution will also be provided to the
FHWA to certify the County’s ability to cover the cost of this contribution.
17-1306
Resolution for Improvement
by County Under the Illinois Highway Code
BE IT RESOLVED, by the County Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, that the following
described County Highway(s) be improved under the Illinois Highway Code:
County Highway(s), beginning at a point near Various locations throughout Cook County and extending
along said route(s) in a(n) direction to a point near, a distance of approximately; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the type of improvement shall cover the costs of program
administration and oversight of federally funded Cook County transportation projects by the Federal
Highway Administration (FHWA) as part of the Local Empowerment for Accelerating Projects (LEAP)
Pilot Program. The amount to be transferred to FHWA may be adjusted annually for the proper
administration and associated activities of the pilot program and shall be designated as Section: 17LEAPP-00-E G,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the improvement was constructed by contract; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that there is hereby appropriated the sum of Eight Hundred Seventy
Thousand and N0/100 Dollars, ($870,000.00) from the County's allotment of Motor Fuel Tax Funds for
the construction of this improvement and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this
resolution to the district office of the Illinois Department of Transportation and the FHWA in Washington
D.C.
February 8, 2017

_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the
34

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Appropriating Resolution be approved. The motion carried.
17-1423
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Arrow Road Construction Company, Mt. Prospect, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): High-Performance Cold Patch Bituminous Materials - North
Original Contract Period: 1/16/2015 - 1/15/2017, with one (1), two (2) year renewal option
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/16/2017 - 1/15/2019
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $84,500.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 1/15/2015, $84,500.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $100,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $40,000.00, FY 2018 $50,000.00, FY 2019 $10,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund 600-585
Contract Number(s): 1423-13630A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and renewal will allow the Department of Transportation and Highways to
continue to receive high-performance cold patch bituminous materials for road repairs.
35

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Arrow Road Construction Company was the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Contract
Amendment be approved. The motion carried.
17-1480
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Gallagher Materials Corporation, Thornton, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): High-Performance Cold Patch Bituminous Materials - South
Original Contract Period: 1/16/2015 - 1/15/2017, with one (1), two (2) year renewal option
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/16/2017 - 1/15/2019
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $84,500.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 1/15/2015, $84,500.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $100,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $40,000.00, FY 2018 $50,000.00, FY 2019 $10,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund 600-585
Contract Number(s): 1423-13630B
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
36

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and renewal will allow the Department of Transportation and Highways to
continue to receive high-performance cold patch bituminous materials necessary for road repairs.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Gallagher Materials Corporation was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Contract
Amendment be approved, as amended. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
17-1235
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Rae Products and Chemicals Corporation, Alsip, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Paint Supplies
Contract Value: $236,645.25
Contract period: 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $88,741.98, FY 2018 $118,322.64, FY 2019
$29,580.63
Accounts: 200-333 Institutional Supplies
Contract Number(s): 1645-15730
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
37

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management requests authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Rae Products and Chemicals Corporation for paint
supplies to maintain various Cook County facilities.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Rae Products and Chemicals Corporation was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Contract be approved. The motion carried.
17-1239
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Prime Electric Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Switchgear Preventative Maintenance, Repair and Replacement of Electrical
Distribution Equipment
Contract Value: $2,056,256.00
Contract period: 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $514,063.98, FY 2018 $685,418.84, FY2019
$685,418.64, FY 2020 $171,354.74
Accounts: 200-450 Maintenance of Plant Equipment
Contract Number(s): 1545-15104
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women- owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
38

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management request authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Prime Electric Company, Inc. for repair, maintenance
and replacement of high voltage electrical power systems. This contract will ensure electrical disconnect
switches, fuses and circuit breakers used to control, protect and isolate electrical equipment are
operational.
This contract is awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Prime Electric Company, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Contract be approved. The motion carried.
17-1340
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Star Detective and Security Agency, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Unarmed Security Guard Services
Contract Value: $443,856.00
Contract period: 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $233,258.00, FY 2018 $181,440.00, FY 2019
$29,158.00
Accounts: 499-260 Professional Services
Contract Number(s): 1784-16135
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
39

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management requests authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Star Detective and Security Agency, Inc. for unarmed
security guard services at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Parking Facility and Hawthorne
Warehouse.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Star Detective and Security Agency, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Contract be approved. The motion carried.
17-1361
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Star Detective and Security Agency, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Unarmed Security Guard Services
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2014 - 2/28/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $307,580.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/11/2014, $65,232.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/1/2015, $157,680.00, 3/1/2015 - 2/28/2016
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/21/2016, $60,768.00, 2/29/2016 6/30/2016; 8/10/2016, $23,900.00, 7/1/2016 - 11/30/2016; 1/18/2017, 12/1/2016 - 2/28/2017
This Increase Requested: $82,342.00

40

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $82,342.00
Accounts: 499-260 Professional Services
Contract Number(s): 1445-13595
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase will allow the Department of Facilities Management to continue to receive
unarmed security guard services at the Juvenile Detention Center Parking Facility and Rockwell Hawthorne
Warehouse.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Star Detective and Security Agency, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Contract Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE
17-1405
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Approve a First Amendment to Lease Agreement
Landlord: County of Cook
Tenant: Office of the Inspector General of the City of Chicago
Location: 69 West Washington Street, 14th Floor, Suite 1420, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2022
41

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Space Occupied: 810 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $1.00 Annually
Operating Expenses: Tenant will pay its pro rata share of operating costs as rental for the space
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: Either party may terminate with 120 days written notice.
Utilities Included: No, Tenant pays for electricity which is separately metered to Premises
Summary: As part of the City/County collaboration initiative launched in 2011, the City of Chicago
would continue to occupy office space located on the 14th floor.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Lease Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
17-1605
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: HR Bi-Weekly Activity Report
Report Period: Pay Period 26
Summary: Pay Period 26 12/11/2016 - 12/24/2016
42

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017
_____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Lease Agreement be received and filed. The motion carried.

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
17-1521
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Pro-West and Associates, Inc., Walker, Minnesota
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Building and Zoning Permit Tracking Application maintenance
Original Contract Period: 3/1/2014 - 2/28/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $487,928.75
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/19/2014, $379,365.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 1/4/2016, $16,200.00, 3/1/2017 2/28/2017; 5/25/2016, $25,228.75; 9/8/2016, $67,135.00
This Increase Requested: $97,435.52
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2017 $81,196.00, FY 2018 $16,239.00

Accounts: 545-260
Contract Number(s): 1318-12726
43

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This second of two one (1) year renewal options will allow the Bureau of Technology to
continue to receive maintenance and support for the Building and Permit Tracking Application used by
the Department of Building and Zoning and to implement modifications required by recent ordinance
changes approved by the Board.
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. Pro-West and Associates, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation
criteria.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the
Contract Amendment be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION
17-1095
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Adult Probation Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: System Services Enterprise Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Janitorial services
Contract Value: $158,964.00
Contract period: 3/1/2017 - 2/28/2019, with two (2) one-year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $55,500.00; FY 2018 $89,464.00; FY 2019
$14,000.00
44

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Accounts: 532-235; 1310-520405, Contract Maintenance Services
Contract Number(s): 1625-15654R
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The Circuit Court of Cook County, Adult Probation Department is requesting authorization
for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with the System Services
Enterprise Inc. The contract will provide daily janitorial services for the leased office space at 1644
West Walnut Street, Chicago, occupied by the Circuit Court’s Adult Probation Department. Contract
costs will be paid with probation fees collected from probationers.
This contract was awarded through a competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. System Services Enterprise Inc. was the lowest responsive and responsible
bidder.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that the Contract
be approved. The motion carried.

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
17-0001
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office and Adult Probation
Vendor: 3M Electronic Monitoring Inc., Odessa, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Electronic Monitoring Services-RF Technology
Original Contract Period: 3/1/2013-2/28/2016, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
45

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/1/2017-2/28/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$13,759,017.33

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/5/2013, $8,059,200.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/29/15, $1,718,038.00, 2/10/2016, $3,981,779.33
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $4,103,079.33
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017, $2,756,499.00 (239-449); FY 2018 $502,580.33; FY 2017,
$844,000.00 (280-690)
Accounts: 239-449, 280-690
Contract Number(s): 11-45-048A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation and partial MWBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Cook
County Sheriff’s Office and Adult Probation Department to continue electronic monitoring services radio frequency technology for inmates of the Department of Corrections and participants of Adult
Probation Department who have been placed on court-ordered home detention/curfews. Both Agencies
are currently working with the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer to finalize a Request for
Proposals (RFP).
This contract was awarded through Request for Proposals (RFP) procedures in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code. 3M Electronic Monitoring, Inc. was selected based on established valuation
criteria.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Contract Amendment be referred to the Law Enforcement Committee. The motion carried.
46

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES
17-1046
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Sheriff’s Office; Department of Adult Probation
Vendor: Kerry’s Auto Body, Inc. Chicago, Illinois (Zone 3); Mac Auto Repair, Inc. Chicago, Illinois
(Zone 4)
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Auto Body Repair Services for Zone 3 and Zone 4
Contract Value: Kerry’s Auto Body, Inc. (Zone 3) $384,500.00; Mac Auto Repair, Inc. (Zone 4)
$260,200.00
Contract period: 2/15/2017 - 2/14/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Zone 3: FY 2017 $288,562.50 (499-444), FY 2018 $75,937.50
(499-444); FY 2017 $10,000.00 (280-444), FY 2018 $10,000.00 (280-444);
Zone 4: FY2017 $205,991.64 (499-444), FY 2018 54,208.36 (499-444)
Accounts: (499-444) (280-444)
Contract Number(s): 1684-15315A - Zone 3; 1684-15315B - Zone 4
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct and
indirect participation and a partial WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Sheriff’s Office and Adult Probation Department request authorization for the Chief
47

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Kerry’s Auto Body, Inc. for auto body
repair services in Zone 3 and with Mac Auto Repair, Inc. for auto body repair services in Zone 4.
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Kerry’s Auto Body, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder for Zone 3. Mac Auto
Repair, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder for Zone 4.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Contract be approved. The motion carried.

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 7, 2017
17-1001
Presented by: DONNA M. ALEXANDER, VMD, Administrator, Department of Animal and Rabies
Control
REPORT
Department: Animal Control
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: 2016 Cook County Environmental Impact Research Group Annual Report: “One Health”
Report Period: 2016
Summary: The Cook County Department of Animal Control in conjunction with its partners in The
Cook County Environmental Impact Research Group will present its annual report entitled “One Health.”
This report focuses on the collaborative efforts of medical doctors, veterinarians, public health officials
and wildlife biologists to monitor zoonotic and companion animal diseases in Cook County. The
presentation will be followed by a question and answer period with the panel.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Report be received and filed. The motion carried.
ROADS AND BRIDGES COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 7, 2017
17-0022
48

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Action: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges. The Cook County Department of Transportation
and Highways requests permission to discuss the above captioned matter with the Board of
Commissioners, or the appropriate Committee thereof, pursuant to County Ordinance 95-O-7 regarding
acquisition of real estate.
Section: 14-A5015-03-RP
Parcel(s): 0KR0033
Location: Lake Cook Road-Weiland Road to Hastings Lane, in the Village of Wheeling
Board District: 14
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that the Acquisition
of Real Estate be approved. The motion carried.
17-0834
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Action: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges. The Cook County Department of Transportation
and Highways requests permission to discuss the above captioned matter with the Board of
Commissioners, or the appropriate Committee thereof, pursuant to County Ordinance 95-O-7 regarding
acquisition of real estate.
49

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Section: 14-A5015-03-RP
Parcel(s): 0KR0019 and 0KR0019TE
Location: Lake Cook Road-Weiland Road to Hastings Lane, in the Village of Buffalo Grove, Illinois
Board District: District 14
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
______________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Vice Chairman Arroyo, to
recommend for deferral 17-0834. The motion carried.
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 8, 2017
16-2289
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY ETHICS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
XII Cook County Information Security is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE XII. - COOK COUNTY INFORMATION SECURITY
Sec. 2-960. - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Information Ordinance".
Sec. 2-961. - Purpose and policy.
All separately elected County and State Officials, Departments, Office Institutions or Agencies
funded by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, including, but not limited to, the offices and
departments under the control of the County Board President, the Board of Commissioners, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, State's Attorney of Cook County, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County Public
Defender, Illinois Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Cook County Treasurer, Cook County Clerk,
Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Assessor, Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County,
50

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Board of Review, Cook County Public Defender, Cook County Independent Inspector General, Cook
County Veteran's Assistance Commission and the Public Administrator (collectively, "Agency") shall take
all appropriate precautions to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Such
precautions shall be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations and take into
consideration industry standards and best practices.
Sec. 2-962. - Countywide information security working group.
(a) An Information Security Working Group shall be composed of the directors of the information
systems for all Agencies set forth in Section 2-961 or the directors' designees.
(b) The Bureau of Technology's Chief Information Security Officer ("CISO") shall be the chair of
the Information Security Working Group.
Sec. 2-963. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guideline means a recommendation to assist an Agency employee or contractor in making
appropriate decisions or performing a particular task, which allows for latitude in interpretation and
implementation.
Plan means a comprehensive document that details strategic direction, which may also provide
additional details, such as Standards used and so forth.
Policy means a document that communicates leadership expectations to a business unit or
department of an Agency, which may also be considered as mandatory business rules or organization
specific directives and which are communication of management intent.
Procedure means a document stating the manner in which a Policy shall be functionally
implemented in an Agency's environment, which may define specific operation steps, manual methods, or
instructions for compliance with a Policy.
Standard means a document that contains a specification or describes minimum implementation
that satisfies a Policy.
Sec. 2-964. - Information security framework.
(a) The Information Security Working Group shall assist the Chief Information Security Officer
(CISO) in creating, and updating as necessary, comprehensive and written information security Plans,
Policies, Procedures, Standards, and Guidelines for the Agencies (collectively, the "Information Security
Framework") to reasonably protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Agency information.
(b) In creating and updating the Information Security Framework, the Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) shall seek the advice and recommendations of each Agency in order to ensure that the
51

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Information Security Framework addresses unique considerations of said Agency; all Agencies shall advise
and collaborate with the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) in the creation of the Information
Security Framework.
(c) The Information Security Framework shall:
(1) Be in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations;
(2)

State all Agencies' minimum requirements and precautions to protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Agencies' information;

(3)

Address the unique considerations of each Agency in a manner that does not
unduly interfere with the operations of such Agency or any confidentiality or
privilege required for such operations; and

(4)

Take into consideration industry standards and best practices by including critical
and necessary components of any such similar framework, for example, risk
management processes, information security incident response plans, and data
breach notification plans.

(5) Include an Acceptable Use Policy compliant with Section 2-965 of this Article.
Sec. 2-965. – Acceptable Use Policy for Information Technology Resources.
(a) On or before April 17, 2017, the Information Security Working Group shall create, circulate
and update as necessary, an Acceptable Use Policy for Information Technology Resources, addressing
issues including but not limited to: the use of County-owned or County-leased computers, telephones,
software, social media and electronic communication accounts; and, the use of devices, email accounts, and
other electronic communications media that are not County-owned or are not official government email
accounts but are used partially or entirely for County business (i.e., formalizing or perpetuating knowledge,
setting policy, establishing guidelines or procedures, certifying a transaction or issuing a receipt).
(b) Notwithstanding the above, separately elected officials and their designated senior staff as well
as designated Cook County Health and Hospitals System senior staff and physicians may use non-County
or non official government email accounts to conduct County business provided such users (1) cooperate
with the County to ensure compliance with applicable law including, but not limited to, the Illinois Freedom
of Information Act (5 ILCS 140) and the Illinois Local Records Act (50 ILCS 205); (2) notify the CISO on
an annual basis whether non-County or non-official government email accounts are being used for official
government business and; (3) notify the Information Security Working Group immediately in the event that
a non-County or non-official government email account used to conduct County business or a device used
to access such account is lost, stolen, or breached.
(c) Separately elected officials and their designated senior staff as well as designated Cook County
Health and Hospitals System senior staff and physicians utilizing non-County or non-official government
email accounts partially or entirely for County business shall agree to provide the applicable County
Freedom of Information Act Officer any records that may be responsive to Freedom of Information Act
52

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

requests, including any records and communications pertaining to County business conducted on nonCounty email accounts promptly upon request by the applicable County Freedom of Information Act
Officer for review and/or disclosure to ensure compliance with applicable law.
Sec. 2-9656. – Adoption and compliance.
(a) The Bureau of Technology's Chief Information Officer ("CIO") and Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) shall publish and make available the Information Security Framework to all Agencies; said
Agencies shall adopt and comply with the Information Security Framework in a reasonable time, except as
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of this Section. The Chief Information Officer (CIO), Chief Information
Security Officer (CISO) and Agencies shall not otherwise disclose the Information Security Framework
except as required to further the security of the various information systems or as required by law.
(b) After publication of the Information Security Framework, Agencies may deviate from the
Information Security Framework based on their unique requirements, but only upon the approval of the
Information Security Working Group and signing of a mutual agreement that would be executed by the
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and the Agency following the Information Security Working
Group approval.
(c) After publication of the Information Security Framework, any Agency not under the control of
the County Board President may elect to not adopt and comply with the Information Security Framework
by sending written notice to the Chief Information Officer (CIO), the Chair of the Information Security
Working Group, and the Technology Committee of the Board of Commissioners within 90 calendar days
after such publication; provided that to the extent that such Agency continues to use or access information
systems under the management or control of the Chief Information Officer (CIO), the Chief Information
Officer (CIO) may only allow such Agency to use and access such information systems in a manner
consistent with the use and access conditions of the Information Security Framework.
(1)

Any Agency not under the control of the County Board President that elects to not
adopt and comply with the Information Security Framework under this subsection
may, subsequently and at any time, elect to adopt and comply with the Information
Security Framework by giving written notice 90 calendar days' in advance to the
Chief Information Officer (CIO), the Chair of the Information Security Working
Group and the Technology Committee of the Board of Commissioners.

(2)

The adoption and compliance with the Information Security Framework, or the
lack thereof, shall not affect any rights and responsibilities arising under any law,
including the Illinois Constitution, the Illinois Counties Code or the Code of
Ordinance of Cook County, Illinois.

(d) Agencies adopting the Information Security Framework shall take all appropriate actions,
including completing assigned training and if warranted, initiating disciplinary action, to ensure their
employees and contractors adopt and comply with the Information Security Framework.
Sec. 2-9667. - Review, remediation and enforcement.
53

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

(a) No less than annually, the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) shall review and
determine the status of Agency adoption and compliance with the Information Security Framework and
whether an Agency's use and access of County information systems adheres to the use and access conditions
of the Information Security Framework.
(b) Where the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) has determined that an Agency has not
fully adopted or complied with, or uses or access County information systems contrary to, the Information
Security Framework, the Chief Information Officer (CIO) and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
shall notify the Information Security Working Group and that Agency to remediate such deficiencies in
adoption, compliance, use or access in a reasonable time; and the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
shall assist such Agency with its remediation effort if requested.
(c) The Chief Information Officer (CIO) and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) shall be
authorized to take all other appropriate actions to protect the County's network that are consistent with the
requirements of the Information Security Framework.
(d) Where an Agency disagrees with the Chief Information Security Officer's (CISO's)
determination that such Agency has not fully adopted or complied with, or uses or access County
information systems contrary to, the Information Security Framework, then such Agency may request that
the Information Security Working Group review and determine the status of such Agency's adoption and
compliance with the Information Security Framework. The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) shall
follow the Information Security Working Group's determinations.
Sec. 2-9678. - Reporting.
(a) At least once each calendar year, the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) shall report to
the Information Security Working Group on the Information Security Framework.
(b) At a minimum, the Chief Information Security Officer's (CISO's) annual report shall detail:
(1)

The status of all Agencies' adoption and compliance with the Information Security
Framework; and

(2)

A summary of all advice and recommendations of each Agency regarding their
unique considerations.

Based on information provided by the Information Security Working Group, the Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) may modify his or her annual report.
(c) The Chief Information Officer (CIO) shall present the Chief Information Security Officer's
(CISO's) annual report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners following the presentation of that
report to the Information Security Working Group.
Secs. 2-9689—2-999. - Reserved.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
54

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Ordinance Amendment be approved as substituted. The motion carried.
17-0984
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Edward Tivador
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/18/2021 or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Appointment be approved. The motion carried.
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 8, 2017
17-1037
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT AND
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
DNJ PROPERTIES, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
55

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Applicant: DNJ Properties, LLC
Address: 7720 W. 60th Place, Summit, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Summit
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number: 18-13-303-036-0000 and 18-13-303-040-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution Number16-O-19
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 16 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Four (4) full-time jobs created
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 11full-time jobs retained
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: same as retained
Estimated Number of construction jobs: Three (3) -four (4) construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Warehousing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
finding the property is deemed abandoned; and

56

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal Resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market
value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Resolution
be approved. The motion carried.
17-1038
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT AND
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
CORBIT 1590 TOUHY AVE. LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Corbit 1590 Touhy Ave. LLC
57

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Address: 1590 Touhy Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Elk Grove
Cook County District: 15
Permanent Index Number: 08-27-402-015-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution Number 42-15
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Three (3) months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 10-30 within the next 3 years
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 30 full-time jobs retained
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County:

See jobs retained

Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20 - 30 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Fabrication, warehousing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
58

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal Resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market
value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Resolution
be approved. The motion carried.
17-1039
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT AND
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
STEVEN MICHAEL PROPERTIES, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Steven Michael Properties, LLC
Address: 1251-53 Pagni Dr., Elk Grove Village, Illinois
59

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Elk Grove
Cook County District: 15
Permanent Index Number: 08-22-400-034-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution Number 6-16
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 10 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Three (3) - 18 jobs within the first three (3) years
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: Four (4) full-time and six (6) part-time jobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 10-15 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Light assembly, warehouse and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and

60

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal Resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market
value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Resolution
be approved. The motion carried.
17-1125
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JESÚS G. GARCÍA, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
RESOLUTION OF THE COOK COUNTY COMMISSION ON SOCIAL INNOVATION
CALLING ON A FEASIBILITY STUDY OF CROSS-RAIL CHICAGO
WHEREAS, the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation was established via ordinance, April of
2016, and codified as Chapter 14, Article IX Sections 14-89 to 14-97 to develop policy recommendations
for the Cook County Board of Commissioners on matters related to economic development that address
divestment and or disinvestment in areas within the Cook County region; and
WHEREAS, the Commission has found through the Cook County Long Range Transportation Plan that
improved and expanded passenger train service is essential to maintain Cook County’s economic vitality
and allow for increased growth and prosperity; and
61

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

WHEREAS, finding major transportation projects that can unite the county’s economy, by linking business
centers to housing centers, convention centers and tourism destinations in order to connect disconnected
populations should take precedence; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has ceased the diversion of Motor Fuel Tax funds; and
WHEREAS, the Commission on Social Innovation’s committee on Public Capital learned of the
Metropolitan High Speed Rail Association’s Cross-Rail Chicago proposal, and collectively introduced it to
the overall Commission on Social Innovation on October 20th of 2016; and
WHEREAS, the Cross-Rail Chicago plan seeks to connect the tens of thousands of unemployed and
underemployed residents living in the south and west sides to jobs available in and around O’Hare Airport
on the northwest side and the northwest suburbs; and
WHEREAS, the Cross-Rail Chicago plan seeks to affirm the county’s place as financial, business and
cultural capital of the Midwest by attracting ridership from millions of tourists and visitors every year; and
WHEREAS, Cross-Rail Chicago proposes coordination between the Chicago Transit Authority, Pace and
Metra to create a unified, county-wide transportation network that may be piloted through the expansion of
the Metra Electric line, the Metra North Central service to O’hare via existing connections through Union
Station, and the 16th Street tracks that would allow for direct rides from South Cook County to Northwest
Cook County; and
WHEREAS, increasing the number of Metra trains, and connecting Metra lines together to Pace and
Chicago Transit Authority bus lines would significantly improve service for Cook County; and
WHEREAS, such coordination could also provide access to and through Cook County for Amtrak and
other trains transporting visitors to the region resulting in broader positive impact for the nation; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation unanimously voted in favor of
encouraging the County of Cook to conduct such feasibility study of Metra Electric on December 18th,
2016.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation urges
the Cook County Board of Commissioners to commission a feasibility study of the Metra Electric to be
conducted by the Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that passage of this Resolution constitutes commissioning of the
Department of Transportation and Highways by the Cook County Board of Commissioners for a feasibility
study of Metra Electric; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Department of Transportation and Highways share the results
of the study with the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Cook County Commission on Social
Innovation, the City of Chicago, Chicago Transit Authority, Chicago Department of Transportation, Pace,
Metra Rail and the Regional Transportation Authority to commence discussions on coordination,
62

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

integration of services, and the possibility of expansion of services to the West Side of Chicago and Western
suburbs; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Commission on Social Innovation will host two (2) community
meetings to discuss the findings.
Effective Date: This Resolution shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Moody, that the Resolution
be approved. The motion carried.
17-0293
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TAX INCENTIVE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, Sec. 74-60 through 74-73 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-60. - Short title.
Sec. 74-61. - Purpose.
Sec. 74-62. - System established; terms defined.
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Sec. 74-64. Market value percentages.
Sec. 74-65. - Qualifications for commercial development project status.
Sec. 74-66. Property in two or more classes.
63

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Sec. 74-67. - Assessor's status and progress report.
Sec. 74-68. Classification system to apply with tax assessment year.
Sec. 74-69. - Applicable assessment level.
Sec. 74-70. - Class 8a and 8b designation/assessment class.
Sec. 74-71. - Definition. Laws regulating the payment of wages.
Sec. 74-73 Revocation or cancellation of incentive classification.
Secs. 74-752. - Compliance with Laws.
Sec. 74-743. - Revocation or cancellation of incentive classification.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
COMPLETE ORDINANCE CAN BE FOUND AT: http://tinyurl.com/zujk2l9
___________________________
This item was deferred by agreement of the committee.
RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE OF
FEBRUARY 8, 2017
17-0058
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, ROBERT STEELE and LUIS
ARROYO JR, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TIME LIMITS FOR DISTRIBUTION OF DEPARTMENTAL
DOCUMENTS TO THE BOARD
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Article III - County Board,
Division 2. - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:
(j) Agendas.
(1) Board meeting agenda. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered at the
64

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

meeting, except for items to be included in the consent calendar as set forth in subsection (3) of
this Section. Material pertinent to an item on a Board agenda shall be supplied, along with the
agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the exception of materials that
are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the public in the
office of the Secretary.
a. Items may be placed on an agenda not later than noon of the day previous to the day on which
an agenda is required to be distributed. This subsection shall not apply to items reported
to
the Board by any of its committees of the whole.
b. Items may be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the President or any
Commissioner. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an ordinance or
resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution. Committee
reports shall be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the Chair of the committee.
Items may be placed on the agenda of a committee meeting by a Commissioner who is a
member of the committee or the President, in his ex officio capacity, provided that such item
has been referred to the committee by the Board pursuant to Section 2-106(o).
c. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare, post and distribute all agendas for meetings of the
Board, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare, post and distribute agendas for
committee meetings.
d. No issuance of any debt instrument which pledges the full faith and credit of the County shall
be the subject of final action by the Board of Commissioners unless it has been preceded by
at least one public hearing on the prospective matter by the Finance Committee. Notification
of such hearing shall be the responsibility of the Finance Committee, which notice shall be as
set forth in Section 2-105(i).
e. Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of the Board
shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of the meeting at which
the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or substitute, the Secretary shall
immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the President, all
Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be
posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to be held,
and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary. This rule may be waived
for technical amendments or emergencies.
f. Departmental reports, including but not limited to, reports required by ordinance or
resolution, submitted by a department head with any item on an agenda of a Board or
committee meeting shall be distributed or made available to all Commissioners no later than
72 hours in advance of said meeting at which the item will be considered, unless said items
are solely referred to a committee for later action. Failure to adhere to this subsection
shall
defer the item to the following scheduled Board or Committee meeting, unless the committee
or board votes by a two-thirds majority to allow such reports on the agenda.
65

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

(2) New items agenda. The Secretary shall prepare a new items agenda to be issued subsequent to the
issuance of the Board agenda for a regular meeting. Items may be placed on the agenda by the
President or by Commissioners. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an
ordinance or resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Each communication, motion, resolution, or ordinance, after being read by the Clerk, may be
acted upon immediately by the Board, or referred to committee, as ordered by the Board subject
to the "Prior notice to public" provisions of this division.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect Immediately upon adoption.
____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Proposed
Ordinance Amendment be deferred. The motion carried.

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF
FEBRUARY 8, 2017
COURT ORDERS
APPELLATE CASES
17-0887
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $5,352.37
Case Name: In Re Davon H., Lavelle H., Savana H.
Trial Court No(s): 12JA1262, 12JA1263, 12JA1264
Appellate Court No(s): 1-15-0926
17-0905
Attorney/Payee: Steven O. Ross
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,281.78
Case Name: In Re Jaliyah D. and Jamal D. Jr.
Trial Court No(s): 15JA429, 15JA430
Appellate Court No(s): 1-16-1786
17-1086
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,287.50
Case Name: In Re Rasheed G.
Trial Court No(s): 114JA0020
Appellate Court No(s): 16-2147
66

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017
17-1089

Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,310.00
Case Name: In the Interest of James A.G.
Trial Court No(s): 16JA0593
Appellate Court No(s): 16-2252
17-1219

Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,473.42
Case Name: In Re Salina L. P.
Trial Court No(s): 12JA233
Appellate Court No(s): 1-15-3358

APPELLATE CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:

$33,591.30

APPELLATE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$13,705.07

CRIMINAL DIVISION
17-0317
Attorney/Payee: Burch & Associates
Presenter: Anthony R. Burch
Fees: $20,955.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charles Thornton
Case No(s): 2010CR14345
17-0713
Attorney/Payee: Barry M. Leavitt, Pay.D.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $4,584.30
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): expert witness
Name of respondents: Pollack Rush
Case No.: 14CR15380
17-0917
Attorney/Payee: Joseph P. Kennelly Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,000.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name (s) of respondent (s): Jennifer Vojinovic
Case No (s): 11CR19229-03, 14CR8561-01
17-0918
67

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Attorney/Payee: Joseph P. Kennelly Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $922.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jennifer Vojinovic
Case No (s): 11CR19229-03
17-0979
Attorney/Payee: Debra Niesen
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Allen Whitehead
Case No(s): 15CR20257, 16CR05089
17-0980
Attorney/Payee: Deborah A. White
Presenter: Attorney Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,980.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): guardian fees
Name(s) of respondent(s): Steven Tunget
Case No(s): 04CR80005
17-1076
Attorney/Payee: Pradeep Roy-Singh
Presenter: Same
Fees: $987.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Datus Egeston
Case No(s): 06CR80016
17-1123
Attorney/Payee: Mark H. Kusatzky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,230.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Jimmie Paige
Case No(s): 06CR80011
17-1124
Attorney/Payee: Mark H. Kusatzky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $550.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Antonio Williams
Case No(s): 11CR80012
17-1170
Attorney/Payee: Dr. William Hillman
Presenter: Joseph P. Kennelly Attorney
68

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Fees: $1,459.68
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): expert witness
Name (s) of respondent (s): Michael Houston
Case No (s): 12CR80004
17-1172
Attorney/Payee: Stephen F. Potts
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,568.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Earl Chester
Case No(s): 07CR80008
17-1191
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Chicago-Kent College of Law
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,123.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mark Howard
Case No(s): 98CR27218
17-1230
Attorney/Payee: Joel J. DeGrazia
Presenter: Joel J. DeGrazia
Fees: $2,112.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name of Respondent: Joel Ullmer
Case No.: ACC 16-009701
17-1262
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Chicago-Kent College of Law
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $1,813.44
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Swaysey Rankin
Case No(s): 08CR10990, 08CR10991
17-1263
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Chicago-Kent College of Law
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $4,943.72
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charles Donelson
Case No(s): 98CR11525, 98CR11527
17-1264
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Chicago-Kent College of Law
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
69

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Fees: $1,522.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Corey Chapman
Case No(s): 13CR22633, 14CR7421
17-1265
Attorney/Payee: Law Offices of Chicago-Kent College of Law
Presenter: Daniel T. Coyne
Fees: $2,138.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Glenn Sims
Case No(s): 01CR22689-03
CRIMINAL DIVISION CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
$43,982.60
CRIMINAL DIVISION CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$54,217.39

DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION
17-1101
Attorney/Payee: Gerald P. Nordgren
Presenter: Same
Fees: $435.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. H.
Case No(s): 2011D11272
DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION CASES APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
$683.36
DOMESTIC RELATIONS DIVISION CASES APPROVED:

$435.00

CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION
17-0801
Attorney/Payee: Colleen R. Daly, Attorney at Law, LLC
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,582.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Laflin (father)
In Re: R. Chabarria (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA01288
70

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0805
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $425.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jessica Dobbs (mother)
In Re: E. Blue, Z. Blue, T. Dobbs (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA659, 14JA660, 14JA662
17-0806
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $893.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Z. Patterson (minor) GAL
In Re: Z. Patterson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1221
17-0807
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $418.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mellody Frazier (mother)
In Re: K. Frazier (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA312
17-0808
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shelton, Deidre Vassar (legal guardians)
In Re: D. Hutcherson (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA960
17-0809
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charles Patrasso (father)
In Re: R. Klug (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA902
17-0810
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,006.25
71

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Elvira Soto (mother)
In Re: I. Rosales (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA497
17-0811
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $612.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rosie Brooks (mother)
In Re: A. Brooks, J. Baker, X. Brooks (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA243, 12JA244, 12JA918
17-0812
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $868.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Campbell, N. Campbell, J. Campbell, J.
Campbell, J. Campbell (minors) GAL
In Re: T. Campbell, N. Campbell, J. Campbell, J. Campbell, J. Campbell (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA735, 14JA736, 14JA737, 15JA967, 16JA716
17-0813
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $606.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jeffrey Tyus (father)
In Re: I. Tyus (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA609
17-0814
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $987.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jerome Walker (father)
In Re: J. Walker, J. Walker (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA475, 16JA476
17-0815
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $706.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Sierra Traylor (mother)
In Re: I. Traylor (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA798
72

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0818
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $125.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Plump (mother)
In Re: T. King (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00528
17-0819
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ronnie Ramsey (father)
In Re: C. Ramsey (minor)
Case No(s): 06JA00363
17-0820
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $612.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kiwanis Webb (father)
In Re: J. Pierce, S. Tucker (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA00270, 16JA00271
17-0821
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $962.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Jorge Matias (father)
In Re: C. Penar (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA0852
17-0822
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $237.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mzimz Davis (mother)
In Re: T. Davis, I. Davis (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA01229, 16JA00378
17-0823
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
73

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Fees: $1,862.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: M. Powers (father)
In Re: M. Powers, M. Powers (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA855, 16JA856
17-0824
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,075.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: C. Matthews (father)
In Re: C. L. Kyles (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA301
17-0825
Attorney/Payee: Law Office of Kent Dean
Presenter: Same
Fees: $487.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s) A. McGhee (minor) GAL
In Re: A. McGhee (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA384

74

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0826
Attorney/Payee: Law Office of Kent Dean
Presenter: Same
Fees: $ 268.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Sanders (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Sanders (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1081
17-0829
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $631.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael McGowan (father)
In Re: E. McGowan (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1273
17-0835
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $754.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celia Arocho (mother)
In Re: D. Calderon (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA00461
17-0846
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,341.00
Services rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charday Wilkins (mother)
In Re: M. Seay (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA0066
17-0850
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $443.25
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Bernita Banks (mother)
In Re: K. Banks (minor)
Case No(s): 03JA1681
17-0851
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
75

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tramaine Larry (father)
In Re: L. Conner (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA410
17-0852
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $987.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Josa Sosa (father)
In Re: A. Sosa, A. Delrio (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1441, 14JA1442
17-0853
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,186.50
Services rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celia Arocho (mother)
In Re: D. Calderon, J. Calderon, J. Calderon (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA00461, 12JA00462, 12JA00463
17-0854
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,165.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Price, J. Price (minors) GAL
In Re: J. Price, J. Price (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA455, 16JA462
17-0859
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $725.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Blakenship (minor) GAL
In Re: N. Blakenship (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA809
17-0860
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $362.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Garner (minor) GAL
In Re: M. Garner (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA601
76

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0862
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $593.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tamika Holmes (mother)
In Re: T. Carbins, T. Carbins (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00351, 15JA00352
17-0863
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $519.12
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christopher Williams (father)
In Re: A. Johnson (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00891
17-0864
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joseph Monegain (father)
In Re: M. Thompson (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA00908
17-0865
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Frankie Tiggins (guardian)
In Re: I. Augustine (minor)
Case No(s): 03JA1197
17-0866
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $175.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): K. Benton (minor) GAL
In Re: K. Benton (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA00238
17-0867
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
77

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Fees: $125.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ryan Benson (mother)
In Re: A. Sawyer (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA00048
17-0868
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $637.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jermaine Birth (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Birth (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA00837
17-0870
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christina Vazquez (mother)
In Re: A. Vazquez (minor)
Case No(s): 02JA00950
17-0871
Attorney/Payee: Lawrence Necheles
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigentrespondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rachel Hunt (mother)
In Re: J. Walton, J. Reed (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA00889, 13JA00890
17-0873
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): E. Saez (adoptive mother)
In Re: L. Ortiz-Saez (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA0130
17-0874
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees $1,350.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Calvin Wilkins (father)
In Re: A. Loggins (minor)
78

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Case No(s): 13JA0750
17-0875
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $725.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celeste Jackson (guardian)
In Re: D. Young (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA762
17-0876
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celeste Jackson (mother)
In Re: E. Jackson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA727
17-0877
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joseph Crump (father)
In Re: R. Crump, R. Crump (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA01011, 13JA01012
17-0881
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Aaron Mackey (father)
In Re: M. Warner (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA717
17-0882
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Charles, D. Charles (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Charles, D. Charles (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA546, 16JA547
17-0883
79

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $706.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Erica Fayoade (mother)
In Re: A. Thomas, D. Fox, A. Thomas, T. Richardson, T. Richardson (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA1207, 13JA1208, 13JA1209, 13JA1210, 16JA152
17-0884
Attorney/Payee: Monica M. Torres
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,131.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Jeremiah, A. Craig, L. Craig (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Jeremiah, A. Craig, L. Craig (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1463, 15JA986, 15JA987
17-0885
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $795.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): T. Watts Sr., E. Bell (fathers)
In Re: Z. Love, T. Watts Jr. (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA791, 11JA793
17-0886
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jamal Joyner (father)
In Re: J. Cargo-Joyner (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA359
17-0888
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $895.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cheryl Roby (mother)
In Re: C. Roby (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA907
17-0889
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Leonard, T. Leonard (minors) GAL
80

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

In Re: D. Leonard, T. Leonard (minors)
Case No(s): 04JA1147, 04JA1148
17-0890
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $710.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Fletcher (minor) GAL
In Re: M. Fletcher (minor)
Case No(s): 07JA612
17-0891
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shamrakalesia McKinney-Jackson
In Re: K. McKinney (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA1047
17-0892
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $298.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Myeshia Holmes (mother)
In Re: J. Holmes (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA564
17-0893
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,353.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Clarence Miller (father)
In Re: J. Laboy (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA144
17-0894
Attorney/Payee: Sheldon B. Nagelberg, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,025.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kendall Smith (father)
In Re: A. Tyler-Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1207
81

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0895
Attorney/Payee: Sheldon B. Nagelberg, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Wilialdo Rodriguez (father)
In Re: A. Rodriguez, M. Rodriguez, A. Rodriguez (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00656, 15JA00657, 15JA00658
17-0898
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $675.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Thompson, J. Townsend (minors) GAL
In Re: J. Thompson, J. Townsend (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA449, 14JA450
17-0899
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $293.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Antonio Colon (father)
In Re: B. Bennett (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA048
17-0900
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,125.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): O. Briones, A. Paisana (fathers)
In Re: G. Hernandez, C. Hernandez (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1325, 14JA890
17-0901
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $437.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Julius Thomas (father)
In Re: J. Thomas, J. Thomas, B. Thomas (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA553, 15JA554, 15JA555
17-0902
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: same
Fees: $287.50
82

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Paris Lawson (mother)
In Re: J. Lawson (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA150
17-0903
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $712.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Vaval (minor) GAL
In Re: C. Vaval (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1408
17-0904
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $837.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Vaval, D. Vaval (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Vaval, D. Vaval (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA1012, 09JA1014
17-0906
Attorney/Payee: Theodore J. Adams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,855.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Carey, S. Carey, S. Carey (minors) GAL
In Re: S. Carey, S. Carey, S. Carey (minors)
Case No(s): 08JA898, 08JA899, 08JA900
17-0907
Attorney/Payee: The Law Offices of Theodore J. Adams, P.C.
Presenter: Theodore J. Adams
Fees: $685.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Malisa Downs (mother)
In Re: E. Downs (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA588
17-0913
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): B. Fernandez (minor) GAL
In Re: B. Fernandez (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA333
83

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0924
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $375.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christina Limiero (mother)
In Re: T. White (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00367
17-0934
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,606.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Daniel Harris (father)
In Re: D. Harris (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA00408
17-0949
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $390.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kellee Foster (mother)
In Re: D. Murray (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA637
17-0950
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,262.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Araina Page (mother)
In Re: A. Travis, A. Travis, A. Travis (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA511, 16JA512, 16JA513
17-0958
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: Same
Fees: $168.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Valerie Burgess (mother)
In Re: A. Burgess (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA880
17-0959
Attorney/Payee: Patrick K. Schlee
Presenter: Same
84

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Fees: $712.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Twan Thigpen (father)
In Re: M. Thigpen, T. Thigpen (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA861, 16JA49
17-0962
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $587.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Celestine, S. Celestine, A. Johnson (minors) GAL
In Re: J. Celestine, S. Celestine, A. Johnson (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA602, 13JA603, 16JA297
17-0965
Attorney/Payee: Michael G. Cawley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $662.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Givens, D. Givens (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Givens, D. Givens (minors)
Case No(s): 10JA374, 10JA375
17-0969
Attorney/Payee: Michael G. Cawley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $915.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Fulgham (father)
In Re: M. Fulgham, J. Fulgham (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA761, 12JA762
17-0970
Attorney/Payee: Michael G. Cawley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,006.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nicole Garcia (mother)
In Re: A. Garcia (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1328
17-0987
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $187.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Taneil Curtis (mother)
In Re: P. Bentley (minor)
85

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Case No(s): 11JA00085
17-0988
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $456.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jose Medina (father)
In Re: J. Medina, J. Medina (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1239, 14JA1240
17-0989
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $487.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mark Vcherashansky (father)
In Re: N. Vcherashansky, B. Vcherashansky (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA0055, 14JA1058
17-0990
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $173.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Mullins (GAL)
In Re: D. Mullins (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA0467
17-0991
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Barbara Love (mother)
In Re: J. Love (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA0498
17-0992
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $762.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jonathan Cocroft (father)
In Re: J. Cocroft, J. Cocroft (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA0287, 15JA0702

86

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-0995
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $937.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Cieara Thomas (mother)
In Re: K. Thomas (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA0375
17-0996
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $731.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Tamara Walls (mother)
In Re: A. Cruz (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1075
17-0997
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Willie Adams (father)
In Re: D. Adams (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1086
17-0998
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Robert Cannon (father)
In Re: I. Cannon (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA0045
17-0999
Attorney/Payee: Charles J. Aron
Presenter: Same
Fees: $356.30
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mintzie Davis (mother)
In Re: K. Davis (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1159

87

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1018
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,190.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): James Washington (father)
In Re: J. Weaver (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1104
17-1032
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $737.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nadia Aronno (mother)
In Re: C. Montalvan (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA00074
17-1034
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Charnetta Foster (mother)
In Re: C. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA000105
17-1040
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $631.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Marthes Crowder (father)
In Re: E. Crowder (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA989
17-1042
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $762.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Stephanie J. Vega (mother)
In Re: D. Riddle (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA420

88

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1043
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $693.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lemedia Exum (mother)
In Re: R. Exum (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1292
17-1044
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $993.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Khalid Bryant (father)
In Re: A. Fortson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA540
17-1045
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $362.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nickolas Raess (father)
In Re: A. Castro (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0008
17-1053
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Joel Foster (father)
In Re: J. Foster (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA1175
17-1054
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,007.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): W. Guzman (minor) GAL
In Re: W. Guzman (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA362

89

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1060
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $175.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Timothy Knight (father)
In Re: T. Knight, T. Knight (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00467, 15JA00468
17-1061
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $187.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Smith (minor) GAL
In Re: J. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA759
17-1062
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $445.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Stovall (minor) GAL
In Re: R. Stovall (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA0004
17-1063
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $675.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Antonio Ray (father)
In Re: A. Stone-Ray (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA721
17-1064
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,145.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Adrian Chavez (father)
In Re: L. Chavez (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0717

90

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1065
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Wilson (minor) GAL
In Re: M. Wilson (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA412
17-1066
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,026.60
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Thomas, A. Thomas (minors) GAL
In Re: R. Thomas, A. Thomas (minors)
Case No(s): 04JA1343 12JA0679
17-1068
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $535.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): C. Smith (minor) GAL
In Re: C. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA105
17-1069
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.22
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Emmanuel Ortega
In Re: M. Ortega, A. Ortega, Z. Ortega (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA402, 16JA403, 16JA404
17-1070
Attorney/Payee: Marcie Claus
Presenter: Same
Fees: $343.97
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Heather Otis
In Re: H. Ward (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA214

91

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1071
Attorney/Payee: Eleesha Madeline O’Neill
Presenter: Same
Fees: $550.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Catton (minor) GAL
In re: M. Catton (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA0949
17-1072
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $862.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celeste Jackson (legal guardian)
In Re: A. Jackson, E. Jackson, D. Young (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00602, 16JA00727, 16JA00762
17-1073
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $250.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kevontae Beal (father)
In Re: M. Sanders, J. Sanders (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1306, 15JA1307
17-1074
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $406.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Gavrielah Henderson (mother)
In Re: C. Little (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA611
17-1075
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $368.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ayanna Stovall (mother)
In Re: R. Stovall (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA004

92

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1077
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Josefina Crusena
In Re: E. Crusena, C. Crusena, S. Crusena, A. Crusena, R. Comacho, Jr., (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA932, 15JA933, 15JA934, 15JA935, 15JA936
17-1079
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $730.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Hopper, T. Hopper (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Hopper, T. Hopper (minors)
Case No(s): 00JA01514, 01JA01247
17-1080
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jerry Davey (father)
In Re: A. Davey (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA01067
17-1081
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $937.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): P. Duarte-Estrada, J. Martin Moreno (fathers)
In Re: Y. Duarte, A. Moreno (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA0198, 13JA0194
17-1082
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ronteka Whitfield (mother)
In Re: I. Dunn, L. Whitfield (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00689, 16JA00610

93

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1083
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $825.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Thomas, D. Thomas (minors) GAL
In Re: A. Thomas, D. Thomas (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA00881, 12JA00930
17-1090
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Holman (minor) GAL
In Re: N. Holman (minor)
Case No(s): 98JA01492
17-1094
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $732.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondents): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Freeman, D. Strong (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Freeman, D. Strong (minors)
Case No(s): 14J657, 14JA658
17-1102
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Janella Finney (mother)
In Re: B. Varela, E. Varela, K. Varela, B. Varela (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA557, 15JA558, 15JA559, 15JA560
17-1103
Attorney/Payee: Ray Morrissey
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,075.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Torey Minnion (father)
In Re: T. Minnion, T. Minnion (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA78, 16JA79

94

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1104
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $237.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Perry Robinson (father)
In Re: A. Robinson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA258
17-1112
Attorney/Payee: Donna L. Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $745.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Colon, N. Saez (minors) GAL
In Re: N. Colon, N. Saez (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA560, 16JA575
17-1113
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Karen Ilesanmi (mother)
In Re: N. Johnson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00117
17-1133
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Herbert Jackson (father)
In Re: G. Jackson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA496
17-1134
Attorney/Payee: Sherri Williams
Presenter: Same
Fees: $600.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Aliprandi (minor) GAL
In Re: T. Aliprandi (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA01130

95

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1143
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: L .Johnson (father)
In Re: M. Johnson (minor)
Case No(s):13JA668
17-1144
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,987.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: F. Rogers (mother)
In Re: R. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 15JD2912
17-1145
Attorney/Payee: Steven Silets
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,350.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Dillard, J. Dillard, D. Dillard, D. King, D.
Jackson (minors)
In Re: J. Dillard, J. Dillard, D. Dillard, D. King, D. Jackson (minors)
Case No(s):03JA1110, 15JA309, 15JA310, 15JA311, 16JA262
17-1146
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $500.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jasmine McKnight (mother)
In Re: J. Watkins (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA00713
17-1147
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Ahmad Caldwell (father)
In Re: N. Womack (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA01248

96

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1149
Attorney/Payee: Ellen Sidney Weisz
Presenter: Same
Fees: $237.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): B. Smith (minor) GAL
In Re: B. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 06JA00715
17-1153
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): B. Dupree, B. Dupree (minors) GAL
In Re: B. Dupree, B. Dupree (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA649, 16JA650
17-1154
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $762.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Roosevelt, Jr., D. King (minors) GAL
In Re: D. Roosevelt, Jr., D. King (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA1164, 14JA430
17-1158
Attorney/Payee: Dean C. Morask
Presenter: Same
Fees: $812.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): P. M. Brooks (minor) GAL
In Re: P. M. Brooks (minor)
Case No(s):16JA247
17-1160
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida, Attorney
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Demond Ferguson (father)
In Re: B. Ferguson, D. Ferguson (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA092, 13JA732

97

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1161
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $825.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Denisha Banks (mother)
In Re: N. Dirkins, K. Ross, J. Banks, T. Holcomb, T. Holcomb (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA0329, 14JA0330, 14JA0331, 14JA0332, 14JA0333
17-1162
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,425.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): Nelida Santana de Rodriguez (mother)
In Re: A. Rodriguez, M. Rodriguez, A. Rodriguez (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA0656, 15JA0657, 15JA0658
17-1164
Attorney/Payee: Victoria Almeida
Presenter: Same
Fees: $806.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of Respondent(s): D'Andre Thomas (father)
In Re: D. Thomas (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA0988
17-1167
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $940.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): K. & A. Davidson (parents)
In Re: K. Davidson (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA0581
17-1171
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,112.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Marco Marroquin (father)
In Re: V. Marroquin, S. Marroquin, G. Marroquin, S. Marroquin (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA145, 12JA146, 12JA147, 15JA150

98

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1174
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $412.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christopher Gutierrez (father)
In Re: C. Gutierrez (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1274
17-1175
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $512.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Manuel Zapata Perez (father)
In Re: S. Nall, Z. Nall, A. Nall (minors)
Case No(s): 10JA223, 10JA224, 10JA226
17-1176
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,687.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michelle Clay (mother)
In Re: I. Clay (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1101
17-1177
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Sequan Currie (father)
In Re: S. Currie (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA747
17-1178
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $862.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Melissa Brown (mother)
In Re: M. Brown-Jones (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA629

99

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1180
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $150.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Regina Fox (mother)
In Re: E. Coleman, S. Walker, M. Walker, Jr., M. Fox (minors)
Case No(s): 10JA565, 10JA566, 10JA567, 12JA1214
17-1181
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $618.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Dixon (father)
In Re: E. Dixon (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA895
17-1183
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $850.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Demetrius Barwick, Sr. (father)
In Re: D. Barwick, Jr., J. Taylor (minors)
Case No(s): 09JA129, 09JA130
17-1184
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,395.20
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Faustina Esperanza Munoz (mother)
In Re: J. Rivera, K. Rivera, W. Rivera (minors)
Case No(s): 12JA725, 12JA726, 16JA082
17-1185
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $365.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Elvisa Liberty (mother)
In Re: E. Crump, M. Hatic, A. Crump (minors)
Case No(s): 06JA647, 06JA648, 06JA649

100

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1186
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,950.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Burch-Albert (father)
In Re: J. Burch-Albert (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA365
17-1187
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $225.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Mario Gomez (father)
In Re: L. Gomez, L. Gomez (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA80, 14JA81
17-1188
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): John Hicks (father)
In Re: M. Hicks, D. Hicks (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA529, 16JA530
17-1189
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $543.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Antwanette Thompson (mother)
In Re: E. McGee, E. Harris (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA900, 16JA477
17-1192
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $562.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): E. Hopkins, E. Dixon (minors) GAL
In Re: E, Hopkins, E, Dixon (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA00891, 13JA00895

101

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1193
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $306.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Anjala Turner (mother)
In Re: R. Woods, R. Woods (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00384, 14JA00385
17-1194
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Shannon Dye (father)
In Re: S. Cherry, J. Dye (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA01128, 15JA01003
17-1195
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): A Smith (minor) GAL
In Re: A. Smith (minor)
Case No (s): 14JA00840
17-1197
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $556.20
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Manuel Vega (father)
In Re: M. Ramos (minor)
Case No (s): 16JA357
17-1198
Attorney/Payee: Brian J. O’Hara
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,718.70
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent (s): Darrie McMurray (father)
In Re: J. McMurray, C. McMurray (minors)
Case No (s): 13JA00562, 13JA00563

102

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1201
Attorney/Payee: Robert Sharp, Jr.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): La Donna Tyner (Legal guardian)
In Re: L. Johnson (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA928
17-1202
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): I. Traylor (minor) GAL
In Re: I. Traylor (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA00798
17-1203
Attorney/Payee: Robert Sharp, Jr.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $700.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): S. Staples (minor) GAL
In Re: S. Staples (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00301
17-1204
Attorney/Payee: Crystal B. Ashley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $687.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): K. Dunlap (minor) GAL
In Re: K. Dunlap (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA0166
17-1205
Attorney/Payee: Robert Sharp, Jr.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $624.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): James Williams (father)
In Re: N. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00187

103

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1206
Attorney/Payee: Robert Sharp, Jr.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,112.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Donte Davis, Jr. (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Davis Jr. (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA00221
17-1208
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,487.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Martinez, A. Traylor (minors) GAL
In Re: A. Martinez, A. Traylor (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA01074, 16JA00629
17-1209
Attorney/Payee: Robert Sharp, Jr.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Pashae Johnson (mother)
In Re: M. Giacomino (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA01251
17-1210
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $475.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Regla Fernandez (mother)
In Re: B. Fernandez (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA333
17-1211
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,281.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Callie Craig (mother)
In Re: J. Craig, A. Craig, L. Craig (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1463, 15JA986, 15JA987

104

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1212
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $681.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Dean, D. Dean, D. Dean, C. Adams-Craig, C.
Adams-Craig (minors) GAL
In Re: T. Dean, D. Dean, D. Dean, C. Adams-Craig, C. Adams-Craig (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA303, 15JA304, 15JA305, 15JA306, 15JA307
17-1213
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,318.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Celeste Woodson (mother)
In Re: A. Woodson, F. Porter, O. Porter (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA00769, 12JA00948, 13JA00940
17-1214
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $900.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Angela Collins (mother)
In Re: A. Collins, I. Collins (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA01186, 15JA01187
17-1215
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $431.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Virgil Agee (father)
In Re: V. Newman (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA134
17-1216
Attorney/Payee: Gilbert C. Schumm
Presenter: Same
Fees: $456.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Baynes (father)
In Re: D. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 09JA172

105

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1217
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $125.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Kaleel Sample (father)
In Re: G. Marshall (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA00084
17-1218
Attorney/Payee: Judith Hannah
Presenter: Same
Fees: $920.63
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rocky Faulkner (father)
In Re: R. Faulkner (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1128
17-1220
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,031.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Marquita Moore (mother)
In Re: M. Bailey (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA991
17-1221
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $536.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Smith (minor) GAL
In Re: M. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA1169
17-1222
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $787.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Lucinda Cassell
In Re: K. Cassell (minor)
Case No(s): 11JA981

106

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1224
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $550.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Diana Black
In Re: D. Miller, M. Black (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1260, 15JA1274
17-1225
Attorney/Payee: Elizabeth Butler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $337.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Patrick Calvin
In Re: S. Williams, I, Calvin (minors)
Case No(s): 16JA3, 16JA4
17-1226
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $450.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Craig Sanders (father)
In Re: K. Love-King, K. Sanders, R. Sanders, A. Love-Sanders (minors)
Case No(s) 14JA302, 14JA304, 14JA305, 15JA165
17-1227
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Alita Agee (mother)
In Re: J. Fields, J. Fields, J. Fields, A. Agee (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA315, 15JA316, 15JA317, 15JA318
17-1228
Attorney/Payee: Brian Danloe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,275.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Nicole Belcastro (mother)
In Re: A. Belcastro (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1270

107

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1231
Attorney/Payee: Joseph G. Gebhart, Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees $437.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Crystal Johnson (mother)
In Re: G. Ellison, I. Johnson
Case No(s): 98JA2929, 02JA152
17-1232
Attorney/Payee: Joseph G. Gebhart, Attorney At Law
Presenter: Same
Fees $537.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D’Anthony Ford (father)
In Re: Z. Barnes (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA314
17-1234
Attorney/Payee: John Benson
Presenter: Same
Fees: $457.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation.
Name(s) of respondent(s): Goldine Williams (adoptive mother)
In Re: D. Williams (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA1131
17-1236
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $562.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jessica Thomas (mother)
In Re: A. Thomas, D. Thomas (minors)
Case No(s): 11JA881, 12JA930
17-1238
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,120.00
Services rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): James Scarborough (father)
In Re: E. Thompson (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA767

108

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1240
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $775.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Duel, Q. Kirkland (minors) GAL
In Re: T. Duel, Q. Kirkland (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1064, 15JA1065
17-1242
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $287.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Veronica Ferguson (mother)
In Re: J. Ferguson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA896
17-1243
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Marcus Hunter (father)
In Re: J. Johnson, K. Johnson (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA165, 14JA164
17-1244
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Michael Robinson (father)
In Re: M. Robinson (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1231
17-1245
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $800.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Clayton Brown (father)
In Re: B. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA527

109

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1247
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $200.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jabari Williams (father)
In Re: I. Dean (minor)
Case No(s): 16JA893
17-1248
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $300.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Janet Rios (mother)
In Re: C. Kriecher (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1176
17-1250
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $212.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Brandon Newble (father)
In Re: J. Lawson (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA150
17-1251
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $325.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Annie Irizarry (mother)
In Re: A. Reyes (minor)
Case No(s): 12JA579
17-1252
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $112.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Campbell, K. Campbell (minors) GAL
In Re: L. Campbell, K. Campbell (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA537, 15JA538

110

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1253
Attorney/Payee: Francine N. Green-Kelner
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,545.00
Services rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Rivera, D. Rivera (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Rivera, D. Rivera (minors)
Case No(s): 01JA1085, 01JA1086
17-1254
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $312.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Leon Sanders, Patricia Sanders (parents)
In Re: N. Williams Sanders (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA1356
17-1255
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $262.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Victoria Aurthur (mother)
In Re: C. Brown (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA379
17-1256
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $231.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Megan Marin (mother)
In Re: J. Marin, A. Marin (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA1153, 14JA1154
17-1257
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $825.44
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Rodney Purdom (father)
In Re: R. Purdom, R. Purdom (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA1165, 15JA320

111

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1258
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $493.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): M. Bass (minor) GAL
In Re: M. Bass (minor)
Case No(s): 05JA412
17-1259
Attorney/Payee: Marv Raidbard
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Renee Dominguez (mother)
In Re: C. Maxey, A. Dominguez (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA681, 14JA628
17-1266
Attorney/Payee: Ildiko Bodoni
Presenter: Same
Fees: $973.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Deonte Frazier (father)
In Re: D. Frazier (minor)
Case No(s): 10JA670
17-1267
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $772.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent: legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Princess Hill (mother)
In Re: A. Hill (minor)
Case No(s): 04JA1111
17-1268
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $835.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent: legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Concepcion Velez (mother)
In Re: L. Barragon, J. Barragon (minors)
Case No(s): 06JA335, 06JA337

112

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1269
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $490.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent: legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): M. Castle, S. Castle (minors) GAL
In Re: M. Castle, S. Castle (minors)
Case No(s): 01JA1345, 01JA1346
17-1270
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,718.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): H. Sims, C. Sims, M. Sims (minors) GAL
In Re: H. Sims, C. Sims, M. Sims (minors)
Case No(s): 13JA00523, 13JA00524, 13JA00525
17-1271
Attorney/Payee: Michael D. Stevens, Ltd.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $750.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent: legal representation
Names(s) of respondent(s): Aaron Key (father)
In Re: A. Key-Knox (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA750
17-1272
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): Kwand Preswood (father)
In Re: K. Pinkins (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA1280
17-1273
Attorney/Payee: Paul Karoll
Presenter: Same
Fees: $162.50
Service rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name of respondent(s): Annette Miller (adoptive mother)
In Re: S. Barnes (minor)
Case No(s): 13JA961

113

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1274
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,637.50
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent respondent (s): legal representation
Name (s) of respondent(s): Thomas Smith (father)
In Re: J. Smith, M. Smith, M. Smith (minors)
Case No(s): 15JA00729, 15JA00730, 15JA00731
17-1275
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $425.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Darryl Lyles (father)
In Re: D. Lyles, C. Lyles (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00338, 14JA00339
17-1276
Attorney/Payee: Samuel Warsawsky
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,075.00
Services Rendered for court-appointed representation indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name (s) of respondent (s): Dejuan Wilson (father)
In Re: D. Wilkins, I. Wilkins (minors)
Case No(s): 14JA00274
17-1277
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $618.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Fernandez (minor) GAL
In Re: T. Fernandez (minor)
Case No(s): 01JA1845
17-1278
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $175.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Catherine Wrencher (mother)
In Re: G. Marzette (minor)
Case No(s): 08JA655

114

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1279
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $2,828.99
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Chardonae Bostic (mother)
In Re: L. Sankey (minor)
Case No(s): 14JA829
17-1280
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,153.75
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Jenkins (minor) GAL
In Re: D. Jenkins (minor)
Case No(s): 03JA1527
17-1281
Attorney/Payee: Thomas O’Connell
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,117.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Steven Wallace (father)
In Re: K. Wallace (minor)
Case No(s): 15JA376
CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO
PRESENT:
$255,346.80
CHILD PROTECTION DIVISION CASES APPROVED:

$166,533.12

JUVENILE JUSTICE DIVISION
17-0800
Attorney/Payee: Thomas J. Esler
Presenter: Same
Fees: $215.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): T. Giles (minor) GAL
Case No(s): 14JD4083
17-0855
Attorney/Payee: Ezra Hemphill Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,025.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Alonso (minor), Rigoberto Alonso (father)
115

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Case No(s): 15JD629
17-0861
Attorney/Payee: Timothy F. Moran
Presenter: Same
Fees: $3,100.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Lee (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD1068
17-0872
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $975.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): J. Aguero (minor), Bianca Alvarez (mother)
Case No(s): 16JD00958
17-0936
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): A. Lewis (minor)
Case No(s): 15JD01581
17-0963
Attorney/Payee: Stephen Jaffe
Presenter: Same
Fees: $331.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Alonso (minor), R. Alonso, E. Sanchez (parents)
Case No(s): 15JD629
17-0966
Attorney/Payee: Michael G. Cawley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $237.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): C. Walker (minor), M. Bryant (witness)
In Re: Case No(s): 15JD3178

17-0967
Attorney/Payee: Michael G. Cawley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $650.00
116

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): E. Murdock (minor), Shavon Bell (mother)
Case No(s): 15JD1969, 16JD1093
17-0968
Attorney/Payee: Michael G. Cawley
Presenter: Same
Fees: $575.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Santiago (minor), Stacey Flores (mother)
Case No(s): 15JD2858, 15JD1876
17-0985
Attorney/Payee: Paul S. Kayman
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,050.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): K. Russell (minor), Kesha Braggs (mother)
Case No(s): 15JD01423
17-1114
Attorney/Payee: Paul D. Katz, Attorney at Law
Presenter: Same
Fees: $462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): L. Napoleon (minor), L. Napoleon Jr. (father)
Case No(s): 15JD00067
17-1141
Attorney/Payee: Matthew A. Ingram, Esq.
Presenter: Same
Fees: $712.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): E. Imarenezor (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD60080
17-1142
Attorney/Payee: Marilyn L. Burns
Presenter: Same
Fees: $1,925.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent: M. Ali (minor), L. Mann (mother)
Case No(s): 12JD4659

17-1173
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
117

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Fees: $1,462.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): D. Smith (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD1063
17-1182
Attorney/Payee: Maureen T. Murphy
Presenter: Same
Fees: $456.25
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): R. Kyle (minor)
Case No(s): 16JD2176
17-1196
Attorney/Payee: Dean N. Bastounes
Presenter: Same
Fees: $400.00
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): N. Lee (minor), Derick Lee (father)
Case No(s): 16JD01068
JUVENILE JUSTICE CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
$40,738.25
JUVENILE JUSTICE CASES TO BE APPROVED:

SPECIAL COURT CASES
17-1284
Firm: Tribler Orpett & Meyer, P.C.
Special State's Attorney(s): William B. Oberts, Esq.
Case Name: Sharp, Joshua v Smith Michael, et al.
Case No(s): 15C11510
Time period: 08-01-2016 - 10-31-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $3,962.50
Paid to Date: $7,197.96
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 12-13-2016
17-1285
Firm: Patricia C. Bobb & Associates, PC
Special State's Attorney(s): Patricia C. Bobb
Case Name: Swift, Saunders and Thames v City of Chicago, et al.
Case No(s): 12 L 12995, 12 C 9158 and 12 C 9170
Time period: 09-01-2016 - 11-30-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $17,934.35
118

$13,965.00

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Paid to Date: $170,721.94
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 12-13-2016
17-1419
Firm: Rock, Fusco & Connelly, LLC
Special State's Attorney(s): John J. Rock
Case Name: Percy Taylor v. Cook County, et al.
Case No(s): 13 C 1856, 15 C 5919, 14 L 6617
Time period: 09-01-2016- 11-30-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $22,387.47
Paid to Date: $67,231.90
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 12-13-2016
17-1289
Firm: Rock Fusco & Connelly, LLC
Special State's Attorney(s): John J. Rock
Case Name: USA v Triad Isotopes, Inc., et al.
Case No(s): 11 C 8098
Time period: 09-01-2016 - 11-30-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $2,350.60
Paid to Date: $68,614.76
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 12-13-2016
17-1286
Firm: Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP
Special State's Attorney(s): Steven M. Puiszis
Case Name: In Re Level Assessment Litigation
Case No(s): 2004 Tax Obj. No. 05 COTO 3938, 2005 Tax Obj. No. 07 COTO 1618, 2006 Tax
Obj. No. 07 COTO 0779, 2007 Tax Obj. No. 08 COTO 5700, 2008 Tax Obj. No. 09 COTO 6258
Time period: 08-01-2016 - 08-25-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $3,860.35
Paid to Date: $78,365.41
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 10-25-2016
17-1287
Firm: Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP
Special State's Attorney(s): Steven M. Puiszis
Case Name: In Re Level Assessment Litigation
Case No(s): 2004 Tax Obj. No. 05 COTO 3938, 2005 Tax Obj. No. 07 COTO 1618, 2006 Tax
Obj. No. 07 COTO 0779, 2007 Tax Obj. No. 08 COTO 5700, 2008 Tax Obj. No. 09 COTO 6258
119

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Time period: 10-03-2016 - 10-31-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses:
Paid to Date: $78,365.41
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 12-13-2016

$5,621.50

17-1290
Firm: Anderson, Rasor & Partners, LLP
Special State's Attorney(s): Anne S. Nelson
Case Name: Hernandez v John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital, et al.
Case No(s): 15 L 11937
Time period: 04-01-2016 - 09-29-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $26,064.86
Paid to Date: $22,504.59
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: (11-15-2016 - $2,956.76), (11-15-2016 - $10,274.85), (12-13-2016 $12,833.25)
17-1288
Firm: Odelson & Sterk, LTD
Special State's Attorney(s): Burton S. Odelson
Case Name: Shakman v Cook County Recorder of Deeds, et al.
Case No(s): 69 C 2145
Time period: 07-21-2016 - 09-30-2016
This Court Ordered Amount for fees and expenses: $22,246.25
Paid to Date: $0.00
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 11-15-2016
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
17-1291
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Mary T. Robinson
Case Name: Shakman, et al., v Democratic Organization of Cook County, et al.
Case No(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 01-13-2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 138
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $42,396.57
Paid to Date: $8,361,892.09
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
120

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1295
Compliance/Complaint Administrator: Cardelle Spangler
Case Name: Shakman, et al., v Cook County Recorder of Deeds, et al.
Case No(s): 69 C 2145
Date of This Order: 01-12-2017
Unopposed Petition Number: 154
This Court Ordered Amount of this petition: $14,054.61
Paid to Date: $1,720.007.33
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
VICE CHAIRMAN SIMS VOTED NO ON THE ABOVE ITEM.
SPECIAL COURT CASES APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:

$854,986.89

SPECIAL COURT CASES TO BE APPROVED:

$160,879.06

SPECIAL CRIMINAL COURT CASES
NOTE: There are no SPECIAL CRIMINAL COURT CASES to be approved for this meeting.
_________________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Court Orders
be approved. The motion carried.

WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
THE FOLLOWING WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS SUBMITTED BY KIMBERLY
FOXX, STATE'S ATTORNEY, RECOMMENDING PAYMENT TO THE FOLLOWING
CLAIMANTS FOR INJURIES SUSTAINED IN THE COURSE OF THEIR EMPLOYMENT,
HAVE BEEN APPROVED AND RECOMMENDED FOR PAYMENT BY THE WORKERS'
COMPENSATION SUBCOMMITTEE OR SETTLEMENT IS WITHIN THE GRANT OF
AUTHORITY CONVEYED BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO THE
STATE'S ATTORNEY'S OFFICE:
17-1311
Employee: David Barber
Job Title: Deputy Sheriff
Department: Sheriff's Court Services
Date of Incident: 12/29/2011
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner was in a vehicle that was rear-ended by another vehicle, and injured his
121

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

neck, back and shoulder.
Accidental Injuries: Neck, back and shoulder
Petition and Order No: 12 WC 01627
Claim Amount: $7,500.00
Attorney: Dennis J. DaPrato of Dennis J. DaPrato & Associates
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1312
Employee: Serrena Blumenberg
Job Title: Food Service Worker
Department: Stroger Hospital
Date of Incident: 04/23/2012
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner suffered post-traumatic stress disorder after she walked into a food
cooler and found a dead co-worker.
Accidental Injuries: Post-traumatic stress disorder
Petition and Order No: 12 WC 17169
Claim Amount: $16,000.00
Attorney: Dana N. Blumthal of Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1313
Employee: Marva Echols
Job Title: Counselor
Department: Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Date of Incident: 06/13/2005, 07/07/2006, 10/06/2008 and 11/14/2008
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured her back when she tried to break up a fight between residents. The
Petitioner injured her back when she tried to restrain residents during a fight. The Petitioner injured her
arm and neck when she broke up an altercation between two residents. The Petitioner injured her back,
neck and incurred post-traumatic stress disorder when she was attacked by a resident.
Accidental Injuries: Back, neck, arm and post-traumatic stress disorder
Petition and Order No: 08 WC 56170 & 06 WC 16391
Claim Amount: $175,000.00
Attorney: Mark G. Bergal of Law Offices of Mark G. Bergal, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 12/13/2016
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1314
Employee: Juan Flores
Job Title: Correctional Officer
122

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Department: Department of Corrections
Date of Incident: 05/14/2014
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured his right shoulder while attempting to restrain an inmate.
Accidental Injuries: Right shoulder
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 18712
Claim Amount: $ 36,275.00
Attorney: Jason M. Whiteside of Whiteside & Goldberg, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 12/13/2016
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1315
Employee: Mary George
Job Title: Clininal Nurse
Department: Oak Forest Health Center
Date of Incident: 12/12/2014
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner slipped while walking down stairs and fractured her left ankle.
Accidental Injuries: Left ankle
Petition and Order No: 15 WC 13951
Claim Amount: $1,785.00
Attorney: Patrick J. Durkin of Cullen, Haskins, Nicholson & Menchetti, P.C.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1316
Employee: Paloma Gonzalez-Coleman
Job Title: Youth Development Specialist
Department: Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Date of Incident: 05/11/2011
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured her right hand and right shoulder when she was attacked by an
inmate.
Accidental Injuries: Right hand and right shoulder
Petition and Order No: 11 WC 21044
Claim Amount: $72,506.58
Attorney: Patricia Lannon Kus of Lannon, Lannon & Barr, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 12/13/2016
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1317
Employee: Nujuan Mack
Job Title: Rapid Response Specialist
123

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Department: Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Date of Incident: 04/12/2014 and 08/01/2015
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner was restraining a combative resident when he injured his left arm and
elbow. The Petitioner was breaking up a fight between two residents when he injured his back.
Accidental Injuries: Left arm, left elbow and back
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 24660 and 15 WC 26923
Claim Amount: $87,608.44
Attorney: Patricia Lannon Kus of Lannon, Lannon & Barr, Ltd.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 12/13/2016
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1318
Employee: Paul Mitchell
Job Title: Pipefitter
Department: Provident Hospital
Date of Incident: 10/28/2015
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner was injured when hot steam and water sprayed him from the expansion
of a flange joint removal.
Accidental Injuries: Burns
Petition and Order No: 16 WC 02486
Claim Amount: $9,000.00
Attorney: Philip A. Bareck of Katz Friedman, Eagle, Eisenstein, Johnson & Bareck
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1319
Employee: Edna Nixon
Job Title: Registered Nurse
Department: Public Health Office
Date of Incident: 12/21/2011
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured her left hand, left leg and back when she tripped on raise concrete.
Accidental Injuries: Left hand, left leg and back
Petition and Order No: 12 WC 02639
Claim Amount: $14,959.27
Attorney: David B. Menchetti of Cullen, Haskins, Nicholson & Menchetti, P.C.
Date of Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Prior/pending claims: None
17-1320
Employee: Zarrha Snaer
124

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Job Title: ICU Nurse
Department: Stroger Hospital
Date of Incident: 05/13/2013
Incident/Activity: The Petitioner injured her right shoulder while restraining a patient who was trying to
pull a tube out of his body.
Accidental Injuries: Right shoulder
Petition and Order No: 14 WC 31963
Claim Amount: $91,449.50
Attorney: Joshua E. Rudolfi of Ankin Law Office, LLC
Date of Subcommittee Approval: 12/13/2016
Prior/pending claims: None
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017: $1,098,196.72
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:
______________________________

$512,083.79

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Workers’
Compensation Claims be approved. The motion carried.

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (CORPORATE)
STATE'S
ATTORNEY,
KIMBERLY
FOXX,
SUBMITS
THE
FOLLOWING
COMMUNICATION(S) ADVISING THE COUNTY TO ACCEPT PROPOSED SETTLEMENT(S)
OF THE SPECIFIED AMOUNT(S) BELOW FOR THE RELEASE AND SETTLEMENT OF
SUITS(S) IN THE FOLLOWING CASE(S) WHICH IS WITHIN THE GRANT OF AUTHORITY
CONVEYED BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO THE STATE'S
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE OR WHICH IS WITHIN THE AUTHORITY GRANTED TO THIS
OFFICE BY THE FINANCE COMMITTEE'S SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION AT THE
MEETING DATE(S) SPECIFIED BELOW.
17-1051
Case: Latasha Sawyer-Kyles v. Cook County
Case No: 16 C 4145
Settlement Amount: $17,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Payable to: Latasha Sawyer-Kyles and her attorney Jonathan Ksiazek of Ed Fox & Associates
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of race discrimination and retaliation in violation of Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 arising out of Plaintiff’s employment with Cook County
Bureau of Human Resources
125

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1366
Case: BGA v. Cook County
Case No: 14 CH 10881
Settlement Amount: $40,800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 490 (Corporate)
Payable to: Better Government Association/Loevy & Loevy
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: FOIA litigation

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (HEALTH)
17-1085
Case: Floyd v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 15C11545
Settlement Amount: $250.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Bobby Floyd
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.
17-1121
Case: Johnson v. Dart et al.
Case No: 15 C 172
Settlement Amount: $15,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Antonius Johnson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1508
Case: Davis v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 10471
Settlement Amount: $7,250.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: DeLaney DeLaney & Voorn, LTD.
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation

17-1509
Case: Gaston v. Dart, et. al.
Case No: 15 C 828
126

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Settlement Amount: $33,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: Thomas Morrissey, Ltd. and Shelly Gaston
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: ADA violations
17-1511
Case: Tate v. Cook County, et. al.
Case No: 16 C 2059
Settlement Amount: $8,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 899 (Health)
Payable to: James Earl Tate
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (PUBLIC SAFETY)
17-1050
Case: Doe v. Cook County et al.
Case No: 16 C 792
Settlement Amount: $40,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Miguel Montero and the Law Office of James J. Macchitelli
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1052
Case: McTiller v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 9267
Settlement Amount: $400.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Andy McTiller
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1084
Case: Johnson v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 7996
Settlement Amount: $500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Jerry Johnson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.
17-1087
127

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Case: Smith v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 5294
Settlement Amount: $1,100.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Charles Smith
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation
17-1152
Case: Milhouse v. Dart
Case No: 14C4840
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Michael Milhouse
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.
17-1155
Case: Lubertha Harris v. Sheriff’s Office of Cook County
Case No: 11L14112
Settlement Amount: $50,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: $40,000 check payable to Lubertha Harris; $10,000 check payable to Denise Mercherson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Employment-related retaliation
17-1199
Case: Murray v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 14C4956
Settlement Amount: $2,200.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Earlton Murray
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1261
Case: Sanders v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 6825
Settlement Amount: $500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Charles Sanders
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation.
128

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

17-1342
Case: Clifton v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 6976
Settlement Amount: $900.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Antonio Clifton
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation.
17-1344
Case: Trubiano v. Cook County
Case No: 14 L 6693
Settlement Amount: $200,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: The Vrdolyak Law Group LLC and Dawn Trubiano
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: 01/17/2017
Subject matter: State law claim
17-1351
Case: State Farm a/s/o Christopher Veugeler v. Steed, et al.
Case No: 16 M1 11191
Settlement Amount: $6,946.27
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: State Farm Insurance and James O’Dea
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Motor vehicle accident
17-1354
Case: Phillip Gaebler v. Thomas Dart
Case No: 16 C 2026
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Phillip Gaebler
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1356
Case: Thomas Simpson v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 14 C 4107
Settlement Amount: $1,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Thomas Simpson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
129

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017
17-1357

Case: Raymond Trotter v. Thomas Dart
Case No: 14 C 4641
Settlement Amount: $800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Raymond Trotter
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1358
Case: Micale Marshall v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 14 C 4364
Settlement Amount: $1,200.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Micale Marshall
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1407
Case: Bobby Lee Harrison v. Dart, et. al.
Case No: 14 CV 4845
Settlement Amount: $20,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Bobby Lee Harrison
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation
17-1479
Case: Gyasi J. Rhodes v. Thomas J. Dart
Case No: 15 C 5425
Settlement Amount: $1,200.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Gyasi J. Rhodes
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: allegation of civil rights violation
17-1490
Case: Charles Allen v. Cook County
Case No: 15 C 2886
Settlement Amount: $2,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Charles Allen
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
130

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1496
Case: Chordero Holiday v. Thomas Dart
Case No: 14 C 8238
Settlement Amount: $1,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Chordero Holiday
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1498
Case: Simpson v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 1184
Settlement Amount: $450.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Carvel Simpson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1510
Case: Carlisle v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 4048
Settlement Amount: $550.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Andre Carlisle
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
17-1512
Case: Perez v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 4359
Settlement Amount: $750.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Victor Perez
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation
17-1513
Case: Osborne v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 4165
Settlement Amount: $900.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
131

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Payable to: Patrick Lee Osborne
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation
17-1514
Case: Johnson v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 11251
Settlement Amount: $800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Jesse Johnson
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation
17-1517
Case: Harris v. Dart
Case No: 15 C 4915
Settlement Amount: $1,500.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Demetrius Harris
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of civil rights violation
17-1518
Case: Claiborne v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 7774
Settlement Amount: $800.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Bernard Claiborne
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of a civil rights violation
17-1519
Case: Daniels v. Dart
Case No: 14 C 6185
Settlement Amount: $850.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Kysean Daniels
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegation of a civil rights violation
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (CORPORATE)

$58,300.00

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (HEALTH)

$63,500.00
132

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS (PUBLIC SAFETY)

$339,346.27

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS TOTALS TO BE APPROVED:

$461,146.27

PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:
$2,270,141.91
______________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims that the Proposed
Settlements be approved. The motion carried.
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS
17-1207
The Department of Risk Management is submitting invoices totaling $46,109.86 for payment of medical
bills for services rendered to patients while in the custody of the Cook County Sheriff’s Office. Bills are
submitted for payment after review and repricing. Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller
in accordance with the submitted report prepared by the Department of Risk Management.
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO PRESENT:

$72,538.41

PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS TO BE APPROVED:
______________________________

$46,109.86

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the
Patient/Arrestee Claims be approved. The motion carried.

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS:
17-1409
The Department of Risk Management is submitting invoices totaling $532,719.64 for payment of workers
compensation costs incurred by employees injured on duty including settlements within the grant of
authority conveyed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners to the Department of Risk Management.
Individual checks will be issued by the Comptroller in accordance with the submitted report prepared by
the Department of Risk Management.

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION APPROVED FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 TO
PRESENT:

$2,019,688.06
133

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION TO BE APPROVED:
______________________________

$532,719.64

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Employees’
Injury Compensation Claims be approved. The motion carried.

REPORTS
CLAIMS RECOVERIES SETTLEMENTS
17-1501
Department: Risk Management
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Claims Recovery Settlements Report
Report Period: Month Ending 1/31/2017
Summary: Submitting for your information, a summary of Claims Recoveries Settlements for the month
ending 1/31/2017.
______________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Claims
Recoveries Settlements be received and filed. The motion carried.

SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS
NOTE: There are no SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS to be approved for this meeting.

COMPTROLLERS
NOTE: There are no ANALYSIS OF REVENUES AND EXPENSES to be approved for this meeting.

HEALTH & HOSPITAL
17-1551
Department: Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS)
Request: Receive & File
Report Title: CCHHS Monthly Report
Report Period: February 2017
134

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Summary: This report is provided in accordance with Resolution 14-4311 approved by the County Board
on 7/23/14.
______________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System Monthly Report be received and filed. The motion carried.
ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE MEETING OF
FEBRUARY 8, 2017

MAP AMENDMENTS
17-1329
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Map Amendment MA 16-05
Township: Lyons
County District: 17
Property Address: 5833 Blackstone Avenue, LaGrange Highlands, Illinois 60525
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of 0.46 acre located on the east side of Blackstone
Avenue and approximately 146 feet north of 58th Street in Section 17.
Owner: Velislav Timotijevic, 1032 W. 58th Street, LaGrange Highlands, Illinois 60525
Agent/Attorney: Nick Ftikas, Law Offices of Samuel V. P. Banks, 221 N. LaSalle Street, 38th Floor,
Chicago, Illinois 60601.
Current Zoning: R-4 Single Family Residence District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a Map Amendment to rezone the Subject Property from its current zoning
designation of the R-4 Single Family District to a proposed zoning designation of the R-5 Single Family
District to build two new single family homes.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is of Denial.
Conditions: None
Objectors: Michael Dickman, a member of the LaGrange Highlands Civic Association’s Board of
Directors, Elizabeth Shine Hermes of the law firm Odelson & Sterk, on behalf of the Township of Lyons,
135

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Marty Stulp, neighbor, 1320 W. 53rd Place, LaGrange, IL., Mr. and Mrs. Golm, neighbors, 5809
Blackstone, LaGrange, IL., Rich and Kim Borkus, neighbors, 5820 Blackstone, LaGrange, IL., Peter
Golar neighbor, 930 W. 58th St., LaGrange Highlands, IL., Mayor McDermott , City of Countryside,
John Bader, neighbor to the south of the subject property, Myong Chung 1004 59th Street, LaGrange, IL.,
Jim Green, LaGrange Highlands Civic Association, Tom Hinshaw, President of Indian Head Park, 6575
Shabbona Rd., Indian Head Park, IL., Tom Kohrs, 6280 Sunset, LaGrange, IL., and Anthony Soyak, 63rd
Street, LaGrange Highlands, IL.
Zoning Board of Appeals received a letter in opposition of the proposed Map Amendment by the
LaGrange Highlands Civic Association. Attached to the letter was a Petition with 283 signatures of
those immediately residing in the affected area.
Zoning Board of Appeals received a Resolution in Opposition of the proposed Map Amendment by the
City of Countryside.
Zoning Board of Appeals received letter & Resolution in Opposition from the Village of Indian Head
Park.
Zoning Board of Appeals received a letter from Grant and Amy Carrigan stating opposition to the
proposed Map Amendment.
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 11/09/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 1/18/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
_____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that the
recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be deferred for a continuance requested by the
Zoning Board of Appeals. The motion carried.
17-1341
Presented by: JAMES WILSON, Secretary, Zoning Board of Appeals
RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Request: Map Amendment MA 16-06 & Variation V 16-41
Township: Northfield
County District: 14
Property Address: 455-577 Waukegan Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062
Property Description: The Subject Property consists of 0.14 acre located on the northeast corner of
136

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Waukegan Road and I-94 (Eden’s Expressway) in Section 04.
Owner: Brookside Venture, LLC., 564 S. Washington Street, Suite 200 Naperville, Illinois 60540
Agent/Attorney: The Lamar Companies, 500 N. Michigan Ave, Suite 2200, Chicago, Illinois 60611
Current Zoning: C-4 General Commercial District
Intended use: Applicant seeks a Map Amendment to rezone a portion of the Subject Property from its
current zoning designation of C-4 General Commercial District to a proposed zoning designation of the
I-1 Restrictive Industrial District to construct a bill board, and a request for a variance. The variance
request is to (1) increase the height of a proposed monopole billboard sign from the maximum allowed 40
feet to a proposed 52 feet and (2) to reduce the distance from the Forest Preserve property lot line from
the minimum required 500 feet to a proposed 304 feet.
Recommendation: ZBA Recommendation is of Denial
Conditions: None
Objectors: Tom Poupard, the Director of Development and Planning Services for the Village of
Northbrook, Kenneth Smith, Glenbrook Sanitary District and Salvatore W. Gaeta, Glenbrook Sanitary
District President.
History:
Zoning Board Hearing: 11/16/2016
Zoning Board Recommendation date: 1/18/2017
County Board extension granted: N/A
_____________________________

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that the
recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals be deferred for a continuance requested by the
Zoning Board of Appeals. The motion carried.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 8, 2017
17-1126
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, SEAN M. MORRISON, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and GREGG GOSLIN, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION CALLING ON PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD J. TRUMP TO SEND
FEDERAL RESOURCES TO FIGHT VIOLENCE IN CHICAGO
137

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

WHEREAS, at least 762 people were murdered in Chicago in 2016, which is nearly 300 more people than
were killed in all of 2015; and
WHEREAS, more than 4,300 people were shot in Chicago in 2016, which is about 1,400 more shooting
victims than in all of 2015; and
WHEREAS, Chicago had more people killed by gun violence in 2016 than New York and Los Angeles
combined; and
WHEREAS, minorities are most often the victims of the rising violence in Chicago; and
WHEREAS, the incoming presidential administration has indicated that it will send additional federal
resources to combat violence if leaders here request them; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government must be proactive in its anti-violence efforts by initiating the
dialogue with the incoming presidential administration to develop strategies and request the needed
resources to help tackle the epidemic of violence; and
WHEREAS, those resources should come in the form of economic investment in endangered communities;
and
WHEREAS, the federal government can assist Chicago police by utilizing federal law enforcement officers
to help local officers in curbing the violence and solving more homicides; and
WHEREAS, it is vital that elected officials in their leadership capacities provide the crucial moral and
public support to law enforcement officials as they undertake the difficult and dangerous task of combating
the epidemic of violence; and
WHEREAS, these measures will have an immediate and significant impact on reducing the violence in
Chicago without utilizing the National Guard; and
WHEREAS, the issue of violence is not a political one, and every citizen of Chicago and Cook County
should have a right to be safe in their neighborhoods and live without fear of being shot and killed; and
WHEREAS, elected officials must make every effort to fight the violence in Chicago to prevent 2017 from
seeing even more people killed.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners and President of the Board
that this Resolution serve as a formal request to President-elect Donald Trump to provide additional
resources to fight the violence plaguing Chicago and that the Cook County Administration, under the
leadership of President Toni Preckwinkle, take the necessary steps of communication to initiate this most
critical appeal for assistance.
_____________________________

138

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

A motion was made by Commissioner García, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, that the Proposed
Resolution be received and filed. The motion carried.

NEW ITEMS
In accordance with Cook County Code Section 2-103(g) Amendment or Suspension of rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to suspend Section 2-105(h) prior
notice to public. The motion carried.

WORKFORCE, HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF FEBRUARY 8, 2017
16-5674
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
BRIDGET GAINER, COUNTY COMMISSIONER
COOK COUNTY WORKFORCE RESOURCE ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
XIV Cook County Workforce Resource, Section 2-1030 through Section 2-1039 of the Cook County Code
is hereby created as follows:
Sec. 2-1030. Short Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Workforce Resource Ordinance.
Sec. 2-1031. Purpose.
The Cook County Real Property Assessment Classification Ordinance provides property tax incentives to
encourage industrial and commercial development of new facilities, the rehabilitation of existing structures
and the reutilization of abandoned buildings. The goal is to attract new industry, stimulate expansion and
retention of existing industry and increase employment opportunities. This Cook County Workforce
Resource Ordinance is intended to facilitate the recruitment, training and placement of Cook County
residents to fill position vacancies that are created as a result of such industrial and commercial
development, rehabilitation or expansion.
The Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership (“The Partnership”) is a non-profit administrative agency which
administers the County’s Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act programs as well as federal subsidies
that benefit employers and enable successful recruitment, training, placement and retention of current and
prospective employees. Under this Workforce Resource Ordinance, recipients of County Tax Incentives,
139

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

as defined below, shall use The Partnership as a resource to identify, recruit, train and/or hire Cook County
residents to fill position vacancies.
Sec. 2-1032. Definitions.
For the purposes of this Article the term:
Beneficiary means the applicant for any County Tax Incentives, the recipient of any County Tax Incentives
or a tenant or lessee of a recipient of any County Tax Incentives that employs twenty (20) or more total
individuals at the site at which the County Tax Incentives will be received.
County Tax Incentives means any Cook County property tax incentives reviewed by the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development for Classes 6b, 6b TEERM, 6b SER, and 7a that are defined as special
circumstances in Chapter 74 Taxation, Article II Real Property Taxation, Division 2 Classification System
For Assessment and all applications for property tax incentives for Classes 7b and 7c.
Employer means a Beneficiary with position vacancies or job openings at the site at which property tax
incentives will be received.
Government-assisted project means any project funded in whole or in part with County Tax Incentives.
Long Term jobs means those positions expected to last 180 days or more.
Temporary jobs means those positions expected to last less than 180 days.
Sufficient lead time means at least seven (7) business days from the opening of the job application, except
in emergency situations.
Workforce Resource Agreement means an agreement executed by The Partnership and the Employer in the
form and manner as attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A. Any modifications to the terms and conditions
of such agreement are subject to the approval of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development.
Workforce Resource Database means a database maintained by The Partnership consisting of unemployed
or underemployed Cook County residents that have relevant skills, knowledge, abilities or qualifications to
merit consideration for Long Term Job vacancies.
Youth means “in school youth” and “out of school youth” as defined in the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act (“WIOA”), Pub.L. 113-128,
Sec. 2-1033. Limitations.
This Workforce Resource Ordinance shall not apply to positions filled by internal transfers, promotions or
recall of laid off employees on recall status from the Employer.
Sec. 2-1034. Workforce Resource Agreement with The Partnership:
140

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

(a) Except for the limitations set forth in Section 2-1033 above, The Partnership shall serve as the first
resource for finding employees to fill position vacancies created by the government-assisted project. The
Partnership’s candidate pool will be comprised of County residents sourced from The Partnership’s network
of workforce development agencies, individuals identified through employer-specific hiring events, and
existing and/or future databases of prospective employees (whether said databases be maintained locally or
by the State of Illinois); provided however that The Partnership shall give priority to candidates that reside
within the District in which the County Tax Incentives will be received.
(b) The Partnership will leverage its County-wide network of workforce development agencies for the
purpose of sourcing unemployed or underemployed County residents who meet the desired qualifications
identified by the Employer as set forth in the Workforce Resource Agreement.
(c) In accordance with federal law, and state and local policy, The Partnership may also offer the Employer
additional resources for the recruitment, training and retention of new hires, including access to federal
subsidies where appropriate.
(d) After sufficient lead time, as defined herein, or as mutually agreed upon by the Employer and The
Partnership, as specified in the Workforce Resource Agreement, the Employer shall be free to seek other
sources to fill position vacancies.
Section 2-1035. Data Collection and Reporting
(a) The Partnership shall compile and maintain a Workforce Resource Database of available candidates for
employment from the County’s public workforce system that includes Youth participants in WIOA or other
Youth programs as permitted by law.
(b) The Partnership will leverage its delegate agencies located throughout Cook County for the purpose of
sourcing unemployed or underemployed County residents who have the skills qualifications to merit
consideration by Employer.
(c) The Partnership will offer additional employment resources to the Employer for the recruitment and
training of new hires and incumbent employees.
Sec. 2-1036. Workforce Resource Agreement.
(a) Every Employer awarded a County Tax Incentive on or after April 16, 2017 shall be required to enter
into a Workforce Resource Agreement with The Partnership as a condition of its receipt of County Tax
Incentives.
(b) After sufficient lead time, as defined herein, or as mutually agreed upon by an Employer and The
Partnership, as specified in the Workforce Resource Agreement, the Employer shall be free to fill remaining
Long Term job vacancies by hiring individuals without The Partnership’s assistance.
(c) Notwithstanding the above, an Employer may utilize The Partnership’s services to fill Temporary job
vacancies.
141

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Sec. 2-1037. Reports.
The Partnership shall submit a bi-annual report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Bureau
of Economic Development detailing the employment outcomes attained on behalf of the Employer;
however, if no Workforce Resource Agreements have been executed, no report shall be submitted. The
report shall include the name of the Employer, including but not limited to:
(a) The number of government-assisted projects for which Workforce Resource Agreements were
executed;
(b) The number and nature of Long Term Job vacancies covered by the Workforce Resource Agreement,
including, but not limited to, total full time, part time, seasonal, and/or temporary positions.
(c) Average wages of new hires;
(d) Total new hires and wages earned;
(e) The number of youth hired and/or trained in connection with Workforce Resource Agreements; and
(f) The nature and amount of any federal resource utilized to support the hiring, training and/or retention
of individuals in accordance with the Workforce Resource Agreement.
Sec. 2-1038. Transfers and Assignments.
In the event of a transfer or assignment by an Employer of all or a portion of its business to a third party in
connection with a sale, assignment, lease or otherwise, during the term of the Agreement, such Employer
shall notify The Partnership of the effective date of the transfer of its business and the identity of the
transferee. This Ordinance and any executed Workforce Resource Agreements are fully binding upon any
transferee or successor to such Employer’s business.
Sec. 2-1039. Enforceability and Penalties.
In those instances of an Employer’s failure to comply with the terms of the Workforce Resource Agreement,
The Partnership will notify such Employer specifying areas of noncompliance and provide a period of sixty
(60) days in which the Employer may refute or remedy such noncompliance. Failure to refute or remedy
said noncompliance may result in a recommendation to the appropriate municipality or, if the property is
located in unincorporated Cook County, the Bureau of Economic Development, for withdrawal of County
Tax Incentives and denial of future opportunities for said Employer to obtain and utilize County Tax
Incentives unless and until such noncompliance has been remedied or successfully refuted.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be in effect as of May 1, 2017.
Approved and adopted this 8th of February 2017.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
142

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
Ordinance be approved as substituted. The motion carried.
17-1694
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYIKIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REAL PROPERTY TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article
II Real Property Taxation, Division 2 Classification System for Assessment, Section 74-62 and Section 7475 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-62. System Established; terms defined.
***
(b) Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Youth means a person of age 16 to 24 of low- or moderate-income or belonging to a household of low- or
moderate-income and as provided by Section 74-75.
Low income means at least income up to 130% of the federal poverty guideline
Moderate income means from 131% up to 185% of the federal poverty guideline
Abandoned property means, except as otherwise specified in Section 74-63, buildings and other structures
that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months, have been purchased for value
by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest.
Abandoned property shall mean property where the applicant for the incentive program agrees to the
CCNRA program. Subsection (b)(i) shall sunset pursuant to Section 74-75.
***
Sec. 74-75. CCNRA Incentive Class.
(a) Real estate property used for industrial or commercial purposes may receive a CCNRA Incentive Class
for the following incentive classifications Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b and Class 8 where the incentive is
143

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

in a CCNRA designated area, where the applicant receives a supporting resolution and the property provides
for the following:
(1) To be eligible for an applicant must prove agree to the following agreement: The applicant
pays an amount of money equal to 7% of the level of assessment savings for each tax year of
the term of the incentive to fund the CCNRA Authority.
Formula:
Industrial and Commercial Level of Assessment =
Incentive Level of Assessment =
Difference =
CCNRA Authority Fund Pay In =
Effective Savings for Incentive Applicant =

25%
10%
15% of Level of Assessment Savings
7% of Level of Assessment Savings
8% of Level of Assessment Savings

(2) The CCNRA Authority shall designate the CCNRA designated area in which a CCNRA Incentive
applicant may be eligible to apply.
(3) To qualify for the CCNRA Incentive Class classiﬁcation, an application for the CCNRA Incentive
Class classiﬁcation must be filed with the CCNRA Authority. The CCNRA Authority shall
notify the Assessor’s Office to apply the CCNRA Incentive to the applicant’s property, subject
to state law.
(4) The initial CCNRA Incentive Class classiﬁcation shall continue for a period of the underlying
incentive classification for both industrial and commercial property complying with employment
of youth as stated in this Section. This incentive may be renewed during the last year if the
following requirements are met:
a. The taxpayer notiﬁes the CCNRA Authority and the Assessor's Oﬃce of the taxpayer's intent
to request renewal of the CCNRA Incentive Class from the municipality, or the County Board
if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area;
b. A completed renewal application are ﬁled with the Oﬃce of the Assessor before the expiration
of the period.
The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply, qualifies for
CCNRA Incentive Class classification. The notice of intent to request renewal which is ﬁled with the
Assessor's Oﬃce.
(5) The Assessor may adopt rules and regulations to ensure proper review of all factors relevant to
determine initial and continued eligibility for the beneﬁts provided under the CCNRA Class classiﬁcation.
(6) CCNRA Incentive Classes shall not be subject any requirements imposed on other incentives,
notwithstanding the obligation to pay an amount under subsection (a).
(7) CCNRA Incentive Class applications must be received by the CCNRA Authority and the
Assessor’s Office on or before November 30, 2027 to receive consideration.
144

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

(8) The Assessor shall liberally construe the requirements creating the CCNRA Incentive
Classification of this Section.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by President Pro Tempore Steele, that the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Finance Committee. The motion carried.
17-1732
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), LUIS ARROYO JR, JESÚS
G. GARCÍA, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
HEALTHY WORKFORCE AND HEALTH CARE ACCESS AMENDMENT
WHEREAS, in addition to the various protections offered under the Cook County Human Rights
Ordinance (“CCHRO”), the CCHRO also prohibits persons from engaging in unlawful discrimination in
the provision or distribution of any Cook County (“County”) facilities, services or programs; and
WHEREAS, the CCHRO defines unlawful discrimination as “discrimination against a person because of
the actual or perceived status, practice, or expression of that person’s race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity or house stats; or the actual or perceived association with such a
person;” and
WHEREAS, while the CCHRO currently prohibits discrimination in the provision or distribution of any
County facilities, services or programs based upon national origin and other protected classes, the
provisions of the CCHRO do not specifically cover immigration status or documentation of immigration
status; and
WHEREAS, expansion of the definition of unlawful discrimination in the CCHRO to prohibit
discrimination of persons based upon immigrant status or documentation of immigrant status in the
application of County services or programs ensures the equal provision of County services; and
WHEREAS, expansion of the definition of unlawful discrimination in the CCHRO to prohibit
discrimination of persons based upon immigrant status provides further confidence in the County’s
provision of health services and is also beneficial to the protection of the public health of all County
residents.

145

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter
42 Human Relations, Section 42-39, of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
Sec. 42-39. - County facilities, services and programs.
(a) Prohibition. No person shall engage in unlawful discrimination in the provision or distribution of
any Cook County ("County") facilities, services, or programs. For purposes of this section, “unlawful
discrimination” shall include immigration status, unless consideration of immigration status is required by
Federal or State law.
(b) Exception. The Cook County Commission on Human Rights ("Commission") as defined in Section
42-34 shall adopt rules specifying any exceptions to the prohibition contained in this section based on bona
fide considerations of public policy.
(c) Sexual harassment.
(1) No person shall engage in sexual harassment in the provision or distribution of any County
facilities, services, or programs.
(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual advance,
request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when:
a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of an individual's use
of County facilities, or the provision of County services or programs;
b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for any decision
affecting the provision or allocation of County services or programs, or the use of County
facilities; or
c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's access
to County services, programs, or facilities, or the conduct creates an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive environment for the provision of County services or programs, or in the use of
County facilities.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, Proposed
Ordinance Amendment be referred to the Workforce, Housing and Community Development
Committee. The motion carried.
17-1730
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
146

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III - County Board, Division 1 - Generally, Section 2-106 - Committees of the Cook County Code
is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-106. - Committees.
***
(h)Notice and agendas. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered at
the meeting. Material pertinent to an item on a committee or subcommittee agenda shall be supplied,
along with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the exception of
materials that are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the public
in the office of the Secretary.
(1)

Notwithstanding any other rules governing origination of items on the Board
agenda, including subsection (o) of this Section, the following items types are
permitted for origin with their respective committees: Litigation Pending;
Recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals; Journals of Proceedings;
Court Ordered Payments; Workers Compensations Claims; Subrogation
Recoveries; Self-Insurance Claims; Proposed Settlements; Patient Arrestee
Claims; Employee Injury Compensation Claims; Revenue Report; and the
Cook County Health And Hospitals System Monthly Report.

(2)

Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting
of a committee or subcommittee shall be submitted to the Secretary no later
than 24 hours in advance of the meeting at which the item will be considered.
Upon receipt of the amendment or substitute, the Secretary shall immediately
provide the amendment or substitute to the President, all Commissioners and
all news media that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be posted
in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to
be held, and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary.
This rule may be waived for technical amendments or emergencies.

(3)

Notwithstanding any action to be undertaken by committees or subcommittees
pursuant to this Section, only the Board may take final action on any item
referred to a committee or subcommittee. Any item contained on a committee
or subcommittee agenda, as properly noticed pursuant to subsection (f) of this
Section, shall also be referenced on the next regularly scheduled Board
Meeting Agenda under the Committee Items Requiring Board Action for
purposes of consideration and possible action by the Board. If a properly
noticed item contained on a committee or subcommittee agenda is not
included in the Committee Items Requiring Board Action section of a Board
Meeting Agenda, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners may include
147

 Journal of Proceedings
Board of Commissioners

February 8, 2017

that item in an errata and the Board of Commissioners may consider the item
as if it were properly noticed.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
_____________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment referred to the Rules and Administration Committee. The motion
carried.
ADJOURNMENT
*****
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims , that the meeting do
now adjourn to meet again at the same time and same place on March 8, 2017, in accordance with
County Board Resolution 17-0615.
The motion prevailed and the meeting stood adjourned.
________________________

`

148

 