MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
APRIL 1, 1999
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on April 1, 1999, in room #S-304 of the State of Illinois
Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board member was present, J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman and the following Board members participated
via a telephonic conference call: Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt and Robert F. Vickrey.
The meeting was convened at 11:00 a.m. Member Browder moved that the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraph (1) of the Open Meetings Act to discuss personnel Matters.
Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 11:30 a.m.
Member Vickrey moved to appoint Robert Casey as Administrator, effective April 19, 1999, at a salary of $10,417 per
month. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board affirm the following individuals, positions and organizational
responsibilities:
Mareile Cusack, Chief Legal Counsel
Joe Haughey, Deputy Administrator for Enforcement
Allan McDonald, Deputy Administrator for Audit and Financial Analysis
Roger Shiels, Deputy Administrator for Investigations
Tom Swoik, Deputy Administrator for Administration and Taxes
Janis Kielbasa, Executive Assistant to the Administrator
Susan Weber, Secretary to the Board
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
Board members thanked Mr. Belletire for his dedication, hard work and service to the Board.
Chairman Johnson read the attached press release. Member Pyatt moved to include the quotes about Administrator
Belletire in the minutes. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Pyatt moved that the Board stand adjourned.
Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at
11:35 a.m.
Respectfully Submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

 