REPORT OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON PENSION
June 29, 2011
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Preckwinkle, Chairman Gainer, Commissioners Murphy, Schneider, Suffredin
and Tobolski (5)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Goslin and Commissioner Steele (2)

Also Present:

Commissioner Garcia, Jim D’Amico – Director, Facilities Management

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Finance Subcommittee on Pension of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Wednesday, June 29, 2011 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room
569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairman Gainer called the meeting to order and delivered opening remarks.
President Preckwinkle delivered remarks.
Chairman Gainer called on the following individuals to make presentations to the Commissioners:
Representative Kevin McCarthy – Illinois General Assembly
Ty Fahner – President, Commercial Club (see attachment)
Sandor Goldstein – Consulting Actuary, Cook County Pension Fund
Amar Parikh – Vice President, Ariel Investments (see attachment)
Chris Reagan – Managing Director and Investment Advisor, Mesirow Financial
Jack Fitzgerald – President, Cook County Pension Fund
Laurence Msall – President, Civic Federation
Henry Bayer – AFSCME Council 31
Chairman Gainer interspersed the above presentations with her own presentation. (Chairman Gainer’s
presentation has been distributed to all Commissioners electronically.)
Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

 FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON PENSION REPORT
JUNE 29, 2011
PAGE 2

313151

RESOLUTION TO DISCUSS THE POSSIBLE IMPLICATIONS OF PENSION
REFORM LEGISLATION THAT MAY BE DISCUSSED BY THE ILLINOIS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed
Resolution sponsored by Bridget Gainer, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TO DISCUSS THE POSSIBLE IMPLICATIONS OF PENSION REFORM
LEGISLATION THAT MAY BE DISCUSSED BY THE
ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY
WHEREAS, it is the request of the Cook County Finance Subcommittee on Pension to
call a meeting to discuss the possible implications of pension reform legislation that may
be discussed by the General Assembly this Fall; and
WHEREAS, it is the request of the Cook County Finance Subcommittee on Pension to
call a committee meeting to hear from Cook County Employees regarding the possible
changes to the Cook County and Forest Preserve Pension Funds that may be discussed by
the General Assembly this Fall; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Pension Fund has seen an overall fall in its funded status
over the past 10 years from 88.8% to its most recent valuation of 60.7% in 2010; and
WHEREAS, during the January 19, 2011 committee meeting, the Pension Fund’s actuary
preformed 30-year funding projections for the Cook County Employees’ Annuity and
Benefit fund which took into account projected benefits, payments, contributions, assets
and actuarial liabilities in order to attain the possible options that would increase the
funded ratio to 80% at the end of 30 years; and
WHEREAS, the response from the actuary included multiple options to increase the
funded ratio for the Cook County Employees’ Annuity and Benefit fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Finance Subcommittee on
Pension shall hold meetings for the purpose of discussing the possible changes to the Cook
County and Forest Preserve Pension Funds; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOVLED, the Cook County Finance Subcommittee on Pension
shall hold meetings for the purpose of discussing the possible options to increase the
funded status of the Cook County and Forest Preserve Pension Funds.
*Referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Pension on 6/14/2011.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to Defer Communication No.
313151. The motion carried.

 FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON PENSION REPORT
JUNE 29, 2011
PAGE 3

313153

RESOLUTION HONORING THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES
MANAGEMENT FOR THE 2011 NACO ACHIEVEMENT AWARD FOR
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT, EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND EMPLOYEE
BENEFITS (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored
by Bridget Gainer, County Commissioner; Co-sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President,
Jerry Butler, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley, John A. Fritchey, Jesus G. Garcia, Elizabeth
“Liz” Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Timothy O.
Schneider, Peter N. Silvestri, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County
Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES
MANAGEMENT FOR THE 2011 NACO ACHIEVEMENT AWARD FOR
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT, EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND EMPLOYEE
BENEFITS ALTERNATIVE WORK PROGRAM-FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
WHEREAS, In January of 2009, The Cook County Department of Facilities Management
identified that the County had multiple employees off of work due to injury or illness.
Facilities Management recognized that many non-administrative employees (Skilled
Trades and Engineers) who were currently collecting disability benefits could return to
work in administrative functions. Over the past two years, Facilities Management has had
eleven (11) employees participate in the newly created Alternative Work Program; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has endured multiple budget cuts over the past four years and
many administrative positions have been eliminated. With an expanding workload and
fewer staff, AWP participants have performed many clerical functions including:
answering phones, entering work orders into the work order system, filing, and other
miscellaneous office duties. Upon completion of the AWP, participants gain a better
understanding and awareness of clerical, administration, and management challenges and
expectations; and
WHEREAS, as with many Counties in the United States, Cook County’s pension system
is minimally underfunded. All employees that become disabled while they are still
employed are paid partially through the pension system. Enrolling employees into the
AWP and getting these employees back to work has saved money within the system; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Facilities Management is very accustomed to the fact that
employees will get hurt while on the job. There is always a higher risk of injury within the
service occupations. In fact, according to OSHA statistics service workers account for
53.4 % of all injuries in the public sector. Employees spend months, if not years, on
disability. One of the reasons employees were off for such a long period of time due to the
fact that the administration did not actively pursue bringing these employees back to work;
and

 FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON PENSION REPORT
JUNE 29, 2011
PAGE 4
WHEREAS, Cook County has been under budget constraints for the past seven years and
has had to continually lay off administrative staff in order to fulfill their budget
obligations. The administrators within Facilities Management needed help with simple
tasks that could not be completed due to expanding workload and fewer staff. The
administration was left with only a couple feasible options: 1) Hire more staff. 2) Better
utilize the workforce that was already in place. Due to the current budget constraints, all
innovative ideas were considered; and
WHEREAS, as with many Counties in the United States, Cook County’s pension system
is minimally underfunded. All employees that become injured while they are employed
with Cook County are paid partially through the pension system. When an employee files
for ordinary disability benefits (non-work related injury) the employee is paid 50% of their
salary for the duration of their time off. The entire disability payment is made from the
pension system. In cases where an employee files for duty disability benefits (work related
injury) the employee is paid 8 1/3% of their salary from the pension fund and 66 2/3%
from Workers’ Compensation; and
WHEREAS, the overall objective of the program is to bring service employees (Skilled
Trades, Engineers, etc.) who are on disability back to work in a clerical function as
effectively as possible. Each employee is taken on a case by case basis. An example
would be that Employee A has a torn ACL and hypothetically won’t be able to return to
work in six months while Employee B has a broken foot and could return in six weeks.
WHEREAS, the overall methodology is that an employee who is recovering from an
injury would be more likely to return to their original function (Skilled Trades, Engineer,
etc.) more expeditiously if they were already back to work in a clerical function than if the
same employee was recovering from their injury at home; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Facilities Management has partnered with the Department
of Risk Management to begin requesting physician documentation regarding work
restrictions that an employee would have if they were approved to come back to work in an
administrative function (also known as light duty). This is a crucial first step, because
physicians have become increasingly more cautious on work restrictions because they
don’t want a lawsuit filed against them by either the employee or the employer; and
WHEREAS, once a physician has submitted work restrictions and has authorized that an
employee can work in an administrative function, Facilities Management assigns the
employee to an administrative function within the Work Order Division. The Work Order
Division is responsible for opening and closing of work requests, disseminating work
requests, and filing daily time logs for the department. The WOD processes an average on
150,000 work requests each year through a computerized work order system; and
WHEREAS, after the employee begins working as a member of the work order staff,
he/she will receive proper training on: basic computer skills, work order processing, basic
clerical skills, answering and transferring of the phone, and filing. This can be an
overwhelming for an employee that has never spent time in an office environment before,
but over time the AWP participants adapt; and

 FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON PENSION REPORT
JUNE 29, 2011
PAGE 5
WHEREAS, once an employee is enrolled in the AWP, the only way to get removed is to
either: return to full duty, physician release back to disability, or resignation. Of the eleven
employees that have been assigned to the program: seven have returned back to their
original position, three have resigned, and one is still enrolled; and
WHEREAS, one of the best parts of the AWP is the fact that Facilities Management has
not incurred any additional costs for implementation. The major costs for implementing
this type of program would be: supervision of participants, desktop computers, and work
order entry software; and
WHEREAS, all members that participate are supervised by the current data entry
supervisor. The supervisor already supervises nine (9) employees and adding additional
employees has proven to not be an additional burden. Facilities Management had
additional computers that were in storage due to their age. AWP employees did not
require top of the line systems, so they were issued refurbished computers that were
approximately four years old. The last major expense was the work order system which is
already in place within Facilities Management; and
WHEREAS, the overall goal of the Alternative Work Program is to get employees back to
work full time so they can complete their function that they were hired to do. The average
time spent by AWP participants in the program is 6 months while non-participants spend
over a year to return to work. There have been many other successes along the way that
have added to the programs overall success including: financial savings, better
understanding of administrative functions, and innovative administrative ideas; and
WHEREAS, financials savings was the easiest and most obvious result. The eleven
individuals that have gone through the program would have accumulated over $500,000 in
wages while not working. This savings is broken down into $90,000 savings for the
pension fund and $410,000 savings for workers compensation; and
WHEREAS, due to increased facility oversight, the amount of paperwork that is required
throughout the department has grown exponentially over the past few years. With the help
of AWP participants, Facilities Management has been able to organize and process their
needed paperwork much more effectively. “I found out that there is a never-ending
process of paperwork that I never knew existed” said AWP participant Andrew Ryndak,
“Once I got back on regular duty, I learned how to manage and get my paperwork done a
lot faster and easier”; and
WHEREAS, when it comes to innovative ideas, there is always an added benefit when a
newcomer is trained in performing administrative functions. One of the AWP participants
single-handedly changed the filing system for daily tracking logs that are used by
tradesmen. This individual saw that the filing was grossly inefficient and since his
departure six months ago, the filing system has stayed intact and is still the model for filing
such paperwork. Another AWP participant developed a “Key Phrase” document that
identifies work processes commonly used by tradesmen. This document will be
disseminated to bring continuity to our work requests.

 FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON PENSION REPORT
JUNE 29, 2011
PAGE 6
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Department of Facilities
Management has taken a proactive approach to bringing men and women back to work that
would otherwise have been sitting at home while they were recovering from their injuries.
Facilities Management has worked to create a positive experience for both the AWP
participant and the administration. Counties across the United States are looking for ways
to fully utilize their personnel and to give such personnel proper training and departmental
understanding while also saving money. The Cook County Department of Facilities
Management has been able to achieve this goal and has developed a usable model for other
Counties and would humbly accept a NACo Achievement Award for the Alternative Work
Program; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Finance Subcommittee on Pension
should convene to discuss how to implement this proactive approach Countywide.
*Referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Pension on 6/14/2011.
Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd):
1. George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen
Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to Receive and File
Communication No. 313153. The motion carried.
Commissioner Suffredin moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Murphy. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 313151
Communication Number 313153

Defer
Receive and File
Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Pension

____________________________
Bridget Gainer, Chairman
Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

*An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 