REPORT OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION
September 9, 2013

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Your Finance Subcommittee on Litigation of the Board of Commissioners met pursuant to notice on
Monday, September 9, 2013 at 11:00 am. in the County Building, Room 569, Chicago, Illinois.

ATTENDANCE:
Present: Commissioners Collins, Schneider, Suffredin and Tobolski (4)
Absent: Chairman Silvestri, Vice Chairman Fritchey and Commissioner Gainer (3)
Also Present: Commissioners Moore and Sims; Laura Lechowicz Felicione Special Legal

Counsel to the President; Patrick Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney and
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau; James Beligratis, Mary Margaret Burke, James
Pullos and Kent Ray Assistant State?s Attorney; Nicholas Scouffas Assistant
General Counsel for the Of?ce of the Sheriff; Robert T. Shannon Attorney at
Law, Hinshaw Culbertson John Hurahan Attorney-at-Law, Hinshaw 
Culbertson LLP

Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to suspend the rules to
designate Commissioner Schneider as Acting Chairman. The motion carried.

Acting Chairman Schneider asked the Secretary of the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to take up the Supplemental
Agendas. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Accept the Substitute for
Communication No. 324536, the establishment of guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys. The
motion carried.

FINANCE SUBCOMNIITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 2

SUBSTITUTE PROPOSED ORDINANCE

Sponsored by

PETER SILVESTERI AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR SPECIAL ATTORNEYS AND



NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article IV, Of?cers and Employees, Division 9, State?s Attorney, Subdivision 2, Cook
County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys eFQHaeF?Ge?traet?Atteme?, Section 2-331?? of the
Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:

Subdivision 2. Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys and?OtheFGentraet

Atterneyse

Section 2-331.

8)

b)

Short Title. This subdivision shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Guidelines
for Special State?s Attorneys and?GtheeratreehA-ttemeys:

Purpose. In the event that the Cook County State?s Attorney is sick, absent, unable to attend
to a case or has an interest in a case, a Special State?s Attorney can be appointed by a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3- 9008. The appointment of any Special State?s
Attorney is considered temporary and limited in scope to the instant matter before the
appointing courtDe?nitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.

Appointed Attorney is an attorney whe?has?been appointed by a court of competent

jurisdiction pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-
9008 and who has fully complied with the Notice Provision contained in Sec 2- 332 of

this ordinance.

 

Litigation Subcommittee or ?subcommittee? means the Finance Subcommittee on
Litigation of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee or ?Chair? means the chairperson of the Finance
Subcommittee on Litigation of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Case Summary means the report prepared by the and
submitted to the Litigation Subcommittee that updates the Litigation Subcommittee on
the progress and status of the case assigned to the Appeinted Attorney or?Gentraet

Attemer?

FINANCE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 3

Case Management means the regular documentation of the
Attorneys? work on an individual case, including but not limited to a Case Budget 
applicable 1, Case Summary, modi?cations and Quarterly Status Reports.

Case Budget means the estimate of legal fees and
expenses through the time of judgment or other completion including costs associated
with the use of third-party vendors.

Modi?cation of Approved Case Summary means the required report made within ?ve (5)
business days to the Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee of any major deviations to the
budget that would signi?cantly expand the planned activities set forth in the Case
Summary.

Quarterly Status Reports means the written reports that update the status of the case,
made in writing and submitted to the Chair of the Subcommittee on Litigation at least
four times annually.

Applicability. This Ordinance shall apply to all Attorneyse la appointed as Cook County
Special State?s Attorneys by a court of competent jurisdiction, pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-9008 
represent the county or a county of?ce, ol?eer. hoard, commission, employee andlor agent.

 

   

 
 

Wweeda
@All attorneys who represent a Cook County party in multiple litigation matters as an
Appointed must comply fully with the terms of this

ordinance for each separate matter of representation.

No attorney may ?le an appearance in a lawsuit on behalf of an elected of?cial of Cook
County or County Office unless they are appointed as a Special State?s Attorney by a court of
competent iurisdiction or have been authorized by the Of?ce ofthe Cook County State?s Attorney
to ?le an appearance.

Sec. 2-332. Notice.

Notices of a motion seeking a Special State?s Attorney appointment
shall he provided at least forty?eight hours in advance to Cook County; courtesy copies

of said Notices and Motions seekingr Special State?s Attorney appointment shall also be
provided at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the motion being heard to the Chief of
the Civil Actions Bureau, the Chair of the Litigation SuhCOmmittee and the President of the
County Board. Within forty-eight (48) hours of appointment by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all Appointed Attorneys shall provide written notice to the Chair the President
of the County Board and the Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Cook County State?s
Attorney?s Of?ce of their appointment by the a Gcourt of competent iurisdiction. The Chief
of the Civil Actions Bureau shall send a copy of this ordinance to each Appeiated?Attorney
and advise them of the County?s request that they comply with the Cook County Guidelines
for Special State?s Attorneys eiLetheF?Gentmc?Hddtemeys.

 

 

 

FINANCE SUBCONIMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 4

 

Sec. 2-333. Case Management.

a) Case Management. Each Appointed Attorney eFGentraehAt.teme?Lwho has ?led an appearance
on behalf of Cook County:

1) Shall submit a Case Budget and a Case Summary to the County Board through its Litigation

Subcommittee within 30 days of thei_r Speei-a-i?Stet?els?Attemeyis Appointment or as soon
thereafter as the Subcommittee meets This information and other communications between

the Ammi-Hted?Attorney eFGentFeet?A-ttemey and the Board or Subcommittee shall constitute
privileged and con?dential attorney-client communications, unless there is a con?ict of
interests in disclosing that information or communication between the represented party and
the Cook County Board of Commissioners;

 

2)4?)Shall include in the Case Summary the major activities anticipated for the successful
defense or prosecution of the case. The Case Summary shall also include estimates of
potential liability, whether the case is appropriate for settlement, and the assessment of the
probable outcome of litigation; and

?)598hall report any modi?cations or deviations to the initial Case Summary in quarterly
reports to the Chair.

b) Review and Approval of Case Summary and Budget. The Subcommittee shall review and approve
the Case Summary and Budget. The Appointed Attorney is not prohibited
from initiating legal activities reasonably necessary to adequately protect the legal interests of
their client prior to the Committee?s approval of the Case Summary and Budget. Special State?s
Attorneys appointed in criminal matters shall not be required to submit a Case Summary to the
Litigation Subcommittee.



 

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 5


in-trsusnt?te?S?i?ILGS?SW

e90) Estimated Case Budget. The budget shall include an estimate of legal fees and expenses
through the time of judgment or other completion and shall allocate the fees and expenses
associated with each phase. Should the court determine that an expansion of the representation is
necessary that substantially increases the Case budget. the Attorney shall inform the Chair who

may provide the court with information on the ?nancial impact of that expansion on the County,
pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-9008.

 

 

e)_1Rejection of Attorneys who have Filed an Appearance on Behalf of Cook County in Federal
or Circuit Court without Being Appointed as a Special State? Attorney by a Court ageing
At any time, the Litigation Subcommittee may reject the
representation of any attorney who has not been appointed as a Special State?s Attorney en?hired
es?a?Gentmet?Attemey Upon rejection, the Litigation Subcommittee may ask the State?s
Attorney to provide representation or petition the respective court to appoint an appropriate
attorney. The Litigation Subcommittee may also reiect any Attorney from providing
representation if they have failed to comply with the Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s
Attomevs in previous representations of Cook County parties.

 

Sec. 2-334. Fees, Expenses, Rates and Fee Petitions

a) Fees and Expenses. Attorneys shall be paid reasonable

fees and costs based on the type and nature of the case. Such fees and costs shall conform to the
fees and costs authorized under this section. The must
pay for all expenses in advance unless otherwise expressly directed by the court or agreed to in
writing by the Litigation Subcommittee. Reimbursement of expenses shall be requested as part of

Attorney?s fee petitions.

Expenses shall be reimbursed as follows:

1) Photocopying. Reasonable photocopying at actual cost, not to exceed 10 cents
per page.

2) Messenger Service. The use of messengers when there is a genuine need for
expedited delivery?at actual charges of a third-party vendor or, when an in-
house ?rm messenger is used, at actual cost.

3) Computerized Research. Actual costs of reasonably necessary computerized
research services.

4) Experts. The reasonable fees of quali?ed consulting and testifying experts
retained to provide opinions necessary to the defense or prosecution of the
litigation.

5) Travel. Air travel expenses must not exceed the highest fare coach rate for the
?ight. Mileage expenses shall be at the Internal Revenue Service deductible
rates. Hotels, car rental companies and airlines offering moderate prices and

discounted corporate rates shall be used. Beth?Appemt-ed?and?Eeneaet

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 6

Attorneys shall reduce the hourly rate charged by 50 percent while an attorney
or paraprofessional is traveling, unless legal work in being performed and is
documented.

b) General Business Costs. Law ?rm overhead expenses including, but not limited to, rent,
electricity, supplies, secretarial and support services, computer system expenses, overtime
expenses, local telephone service and other similar expenses, shall be considered part of the
Appointed?andJGemraet Attorneys? hourly rate.

Miscellaneous Costs. Attorneys shall not seek reimbursement of

fees for:
1. preparing a fee petition;
2. conducting a con?icts check;
3. entertainment expenses;
4. excessive staf?ng;
5. work resulting from Appoii-ited?er?Gemmet Attorney error;
6. preparing an estimated case budget.

 

Appointed?aim?Qentraet Attorneys? appearances and depositions shall, under most
circumstances, be based on the work of a single attorney.

Fee Petitions. Unless otherwise expressly directed by the court, Appe-inted?Attemeys?and
Gentraet Attorneys shall submit fee petitions quarterly. If the accumulated charges for a quarter
are less than $500 00, the charges shall be included 1n the next quarterly fee petition. Appointed
and-Gentraet Attorneys shall submit all fee petitions to the Chair in a time appropriate for referral
to and review by the Subcommittee prior to ?ling the fee petition with the court. The time spent
performing the chargeable services shall be recorded on a daily basis to the nearest 1/10th of an
hour and shall be broken down 1n detail, describing the work performed by each individual during
that time period. The fee petition shall contain the amount charged for each attorney and
paraprofessional, including the time, the hourly rate and summary total for each. The fee petition
shall itemize expenses according to categories including the following: photocopying, messenger
service, computerized research, experts and travel.

Rate Structure. Unless otherwise expressly directed by the court or the Subcommittee, Appeimed
Mmeys?a?nd?Gentraet Attorneys shall bill for their services on an hourly basis and 1n accordance
with the Fee Schedule set forth below, as approved and amended from time to time by the Board.
The Fee Schedule shall establish the maximum hourly charges payable for the type of service

provided. Attorneys may propose alternative fee structures
such as blended, ?at or contingent rate upon approval of the subcommittee.

Fee schedule

 

Partner Hourly Rate $170.00 - 185.00

 

 

Associate Hourly Rate $140.00 - 155.00

 

 

 

 

Paralegal/Law Clerk Hourly Rate $65.00

 

 

 

 

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 7

Sec. 2-335. Litigation resolution

a)



Alternative Dispute Resolution. If an Appointed Attorney believes that alternative dispute
resolution is appropriate to resolve a matter, that Appointed Attorney shall bring a proposal
recommending such action to the Litigation Subcommittee for its consideration and approval.

Settlement. Appointed Attorneys shall communicate all settlement proposals to the Subcommittee
in a timely manner. Appointed Attorneys shall provide a written settlement analysis and
recommendation to the Litigation Subcommittee and shall be prepared to present that
recommendation at a meeting of the Subcommittee.

Permission to Try. Appointed Attorneys shall obtain the approval of the Litigation Subcommittee
prior to taking a matter to trial. When an Appointed Attorney recommends that a civil matter
proceed to trial, that attorney shall provide a revised Case Summary and recommendation to the
Litigation Subcommittee. That attorney shall be prepared to present that recommendation at a
meeting of the Subcommittee. Prior to seeking the authority to bring a matter to trial, AttorneLs
must present a revised case budget with the estimated cost of the potential trial to the Litigation
Subcommittee for approval.

(1) Appeals. Appointed Attorneys must notify the Chair of any ?nal and appealable ruling in civil

matters within seventy-two (72) hours of the ruling. If an appeal may result in the imposition of
accrued interest upon the County, the Appointed Attorney must obtain authorization from the
Litigation Subcommittee before pursuing the appeal. However, Appointed?Attomeys shall take all
steps necessary to protect the interests and preserve the appeal rights of the parties they represent
pending a decision to appeal, including the ?ling of appropriate post-trial motions or a notice of
appeal when necessary. The decision to appeal must be approved by the Subcommittee on
Litigation.

Section 2-336 Con?icts of interest

a)



Modification of Guidelines. There may be circumstances in which the Cook County Guidelines
for Appointment of Special State?s Attorneys requires
modi?cation. The Litigation Subcommittee shall examine these situations on a case- b?y- case
basis and shall modify the Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys and?cher
Gontreei?Ait-oo-ieys accordingly for the course of that representation. In unusual circumstances in
which an Attorney believes that strict compliance with the
Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys end?Qiher?Gonnaet?atiorneyaa would
interfere with the exercise of their professional judgment or otherwise violate their professional
responsibilities, they shall seek appropriate guidance from the court. Pending the
receipt of such guidance, they shall be relieved of the obligation to comply with the Cook County
Guidelines for Special State?s Attorney and?Qiher?JGoH-t?Faeemronaeys, but only to the extent
necessary to avoid the perceived problems that prompted the request for guidance.

Con?icts Check. Before accepting a court appointment, when applicable, or before rendering any

services, Attorneys must conduct a con?ict of interest review

and provide the Litigation Subcommittee with a written list of all actual or potential con?icts of
interest and matters that may present the appearance of a con?ict.

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 8

c) Timely notification. Attorneys must provide the Chair a
written notice of any actual or potential con?icts or the appearance of a con?ict within ?ve (5)
days of learning of the con?ict.

d) Waiver: Attorneys must be free of any con?ict of interest

under the rules of professional conduct unless the con?ict is waived by the Litigation
Subcommittee and the party represented by the Appomted?or??ennaet Attorney.

Sec. 2-336. Penalties

If an Appointed?MW Attorney fails to comply with Sections 2-331 through 2-335, the
Litigation Subcommittee may delay or deny the payment of any accrued or future fees and
costs for the matter of representation

An attorney who ?les an appearance without being appointed as a Special State Attorney
by a court mm shall not be paid for any time or costs accrued prior to their

appointment a court or the State?s Attorney. Won

 

representation:
Effective date. This ordinance takes effect immediately upon passage.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Collins, moved to Defer the Substitute for
Communication No. 324536 to the October 1, 2013 Finance Subcommittee on Litigation meeting.
The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Receive and File the
Shakman Compliance Fees and Costs, which is informational only. The motion carried.

Michael Shakman, et al.. C0013 County, et?al? Case No. 69 2145

FEES AND COSTS

Cardelle Spangler
Compliance Administrator

Recorder of Deeds
$887,693.10 - October 2010 - June 2013

Julia Nowicki

Compliance Administrator

County of Cook

$2,302,103.47 - February 2007 - April 2009

Mall Robinson
Compliance Administrator

County of Cook
$3,128,514.98 - May 2009 - June 2013

FINANCE SUBCOMCMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 9

Mark Vogel
Compliant Administrator

$3,128,514.98 May 2009 June 2013

Clifford Meacham

Compliance Administrator

Assessor of Cook County

$356,359.80 - November 2012 - May 2013

Clifford Meacham

Compliance Administrator

Sheriff of Cook County

$2,440,964.82 - February 2009 - November 2010

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to take up last Case 
William Burruss, et al. v. Sheriff. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to enter into Executive
Session, pursuant to 5 ILCS The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to return to Regular Session.
The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Receive and File the
Litigation Subcommittee Status Report. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce in the matter of Johnson Controls, Inc. v. County
of Cook, Case No. 12 CV 02409. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce in the matter of Patricia Colon v. County of Cook.
The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Concur with the
Recommendation of the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce in the matter of Janusz Domagala (Estate of Anna
Domagala) v. County of Cook. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Defer the matter of
Michael Shakman, et al. v. Cook County. The motion carried.

Commissioner Suffredin moved to Concur with the Recommendation of the State?s Attorney?s
Of?ce in the matter of William Burruss, et al. v. Sheriff. The motion died for lack of a second.

Commissioner Suffredin seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to Defer the matter of
William Burruss, et al. v. Sheriff to the October 1, 2013 Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
meeting. The motion carried.

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 10

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved to authorize invoice
payments for special counsels in Tab #1 through Tab #11 in Volume 2 which are in compliance with

the County?s Attorney-Fee Guidelines. The motion carried.

Tab 1 Meckler Bulger Tilson Marick Valley v. Sheri? Thomas Dart, Palomino, et al.
Pearson
Case No. 11 CV 3490

Tab 2 Peterson Johnson Murray LLC Gwendolyn Bell v. County of Cook, et al.
Case No. 12 5432

Tab 3 Peterson Johnson Murray LLC James Degorski v. Cook County Sheri?f et al.
Case No. 04 3367

Tab 4 Peterson Johnson Murray LLC USA v. Cook County, et al.
Pearson
Case No. 10 02946

Tab 5 Querry Harrow, Ltd. Hernandez v. Cook County Sheri??s Dept, et al.
Case No. 07 855

Tab 6 Murphy Hourihane Burruss, et al. v. Cook County Sheri??s O??ice
Case No. 08 CV 6621

Tab 7 Hinshaw Culbertson LLP Burruss v. Thomas Dart
Case No. 08 CV 6621

Tab 8 Hinshaw Culbertson LLP Capra v. Cook County Board of Review
Case No. 11 4028

Tab 9 Hinshaw Culbertson LLP Satkar v. Cook County Board of Review
Case No. 10 6682

Tab 10 Hinshaw Culbertson LLP In Re: Joseph Barrios Ethics Investigation
(Tab Item No. 10) In Re: Review of Attorney Fees and Expenses

Special State?s Attorney Steven M. Puiszis
Tab 11 Patricia C. Bobb Associates, PC.

Case No. 12 12995
Case No. 12 CV 09158
Case No. 12 CV 09170

Terrill Swift v. City of Chicago, et al.
Michael Saunders v. City of Chicago, et al.
Vincent Thames v. City of Chicago, ei al.

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2013
PAGE 11

Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved to Adjourn. The motion
carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned.

FINANCE SUBCOMNIITTEE ON LITIGATION

?(We [0 amok/?33

11M 0m (SCHNEIDERATTEST: Mr . 
WTTHIEW B. SECRETARY

An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 436, Chicago, IL 60602

