Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, October 5, 2016

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

16-5211
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/13/2016

16-5212
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 8/2/2016

16-5213
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 8/3/2016

 16-1983
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO JR., RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE SAFE DISPOSAL OF PHARMACEUTICALS
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6(a); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, Cook County may exercise any power and perform any
function relating to its government and affairs including the power to regulate for the protection of the
public health, safety, morals, and welfare; and
WHEREAS, the health and welfare of the residents of Cook County, particularly children and the
elderly, would be greatly improved and advanced by the proper disposal of unwanted, expired or
unneeded prescription drugs; and
WHEREAS, there is a significant risk of poisoning, in particular to children and the elderly, due to the
improper or careless disposal of prescription drugs and the illegal re-sale of prescription drugs; and
WHEREAS, the groundwater and drinking water of Cook County is being contaminated by improperly
disposed of prescription drugs passing through our wastewater and treatment centers; and
WHEREAS, the United States Supreme Court has held that waste disposal is traditionally a function of
local government; and
WHEREAS, the first pharmaceutical disposal ordinance was enacted by Alameda County, California in
2012; and
WHEREAS, since Alameda County’s enactment, other counties have enacted or introducing ordinances
regulating the disposal of pharmaceuticals, including Los Angeles, Marin, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara,
Santa Cruz, San Francisco, and San Mateo Counties in California and King County, Washington;
WHEREAS, the Alameda County ordinance was upheld in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California in Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, et. al v.
Alameda County, et. al., No. 3:12-cv-06203 (N.D. Cal., Aug. 28, 2013) and in the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, et. al v.
Alameda County, et. al., No. 3:12-cv-06203 (9th Circuit, September 30, 2014). The United States
Supreme Court declined to hear the case; and
WHEREAS, in an opinion by Judge N.R. Smith, the Ninth Circuit held that the ordinance did not burden
interstate commerce, given that the Ordinance did not affect the interstate flow of goods; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance was found to not discriminate in favor of in-County competitors, as in both
on its face and in effect, it applied to all manufacturers that make their drugs available in Alameda
County-without respect to the geographic location of the manufacturer; and
Page 2 of 18

 WHEREAS, the ordinance did not impose different requirements on Producers within California and
Producers outside of California; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance did not act like a tariff and there was no evidence that the Ordinance will
interrupt, or even decrease, the “flow of goods” into or out of Alameda County; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance had de minimis costs as compared with the health, safety and environmental
benefits; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, the above recitals are expressly incorporated herein and
made part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
BE IT FURTHUR ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article II, Sheriff, Division 5, Pharmaceutical Disposal Program, Sections 46-102 - 46-121
is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-102 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this Division, the following definitions apply:
A. “Board” means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois.
B. “County” means Cook County, Illinois.
C. “County residents” mean human beings residing in the County.
D. “Collector” means a Person approved by the Director to gather Unwanted Covered Drugs from
County residents for the purpose of collection, transportation, and disposal.
E. “Covered Drug” means a Drug in any form used by County residents, including prescription,
nonprescription, brand name and generic drugs. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, “Covered Drug”
does not include:
(1) vitamins or supplements;
(2) herbal-based remedies and homeopathic drugs, products, or remedies;
(3) cosmetics, shampoos, sunscreens, toothpaste, lip balm, antiperspirants, or other personal care
products that are regulated as both cosmetics and nonprescription drugs under the federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Title 21 U.S.C. Chapter 9);
(4) Drugs for which Producers provide a pharmaceutical product stewardship or take-back
program as part of a federal Food and Drug Administration-managed risk evaluation and
mitigation strategy (21 U.S.C. § 355-1);
(5) Drugs that are biological products as defined by 21 C.F.R. § 600.3(h) as it exists on the
effective date of this Division if the Producer already provides a pharmaceutical product
stewardship or take-back program; and

Page 3 of 18

 (6) medical devices or their component parts or accessories.
F. “Director” means the Director of the Prescription Drug Take Back Program of the Cook County
Sheriff’s Office, or a duly authorized representative.
G. “District” means the districts of Cook County as defined in Article II, Section 22-34 of the Code of
Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
H. “Drug Wholesaler” means a Person who buys Drugs for resale and distribution to corporations,
individuals, or entities other than consumers.
I. “Drug” means:
(1) any article recognized in the official United States pharmacopoeia, the official national
formulary, the official homeopathic pharmacopoeia of the United States or any supplement of the
formulary or those pharmacopoeias as published by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention and the
Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia Convention of the United States;
(2) any substance intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of
disease in humans or other animals;
(3) any substance, other than food, intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of
humans or other animals; or
(4) any substance intended for use as a component of any substance specified in (1), (2), or (3) of
this definition.
J. “Manufacture” means the production, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of a Drug
but does not include the activities of a Repackager or Drug Wholesaler, or practitioner who, distributes
or dispenses such substance or device in the course of his or her professional practice or, prepares,
compounds, packages, or labels such substance or device.
K. “Manufacturer” means a Person engaged in the Manufacture of Drugs.
L. “Mail-back services” means a collection method for the return of Unwanted Covered Drugs from
County residents utilizing pre-paid and pre-addressed mailing envelopes.
M. “Nonprescription Drug” means a Drug that may be lawfully sold without a prescription.
N. “Person” means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
O. “Pharmacy” means a place licensed by the state of Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation engaged in the practice of “Pharmacy,” as defined by the Illinois Pharmacy Practice Act,
225 ILCS 85/1 et. seq. is conducted.
P. “Prescription Drug” means any Drug, including any controlled substance, that is required by federal
or state law or regulation to be dispensed by prescription only or is restricted to use by practitioners only.
Page 4 of 18

 Q. “Producer” means a Manufacturer engaged in the Manufacture of a Covered Drug sold in the County,
including a brand-name or generic Drug. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, “Producer” does not
include:
(1) a retailer whose store label appears on a Covered Drug or the drug’s packaging if the
Manufacturer from whom the retailer obtains the drug is identified under Sec. 46-103(d) of this
Division;
(2) a Repackager if the Manufacturer from whom the Repackager obtains the Drug is identified
under Sec. 46-103(d) of this Division;
(3) a pharmacist who compounds or repackages a prescribed individual drug product for a
consumer; or
(4) a wholesaler who is not also the Manufacturer.
R. “Repackager” means a person who owns or operates an establishment that repacks and relabels a
product or package for further sale, or for distribution without a further transaction.
S. “Sheriff” means the Office of the Cook County Sheriff.
T. “Stewardship Plan” means a plan for the collection, transportation and disposal of Unwanted
Covered Drugs required under Sec. 46-104 of this Division that is: (1) financed, developed, implemented
and participated in by one or more Producers; (2) operated by the participating Producers or a
Stewardship Organization; and (3) approved by the Director.
U. “Stewardship Organization” means an organization designated by a Producer or group of Producers to
act as an agent on behalf of one or more Producers to develop and implement and operate a Stewardship
Plan.
V. “Unwanted Covered Drug” means any Covered Drug that the owner has discarded or intends to
discard.
Sec. 46-103 - Stewardship Plans - Participation.
(a) Each Producer shall participate in a Stewardship Plan. Each Producer must:
(1) operate, individually or jointly with other Producers, a Stewardship Plan approved by the
Director; or
(2) enter into an agreement with a Stewardship Organization to operate, on the Producer’s behalf,
a Stewardship Plan approved by the Director; or
(3) enter into an agreement with the Director to operate, on the Producer’s behalf, a Stewardship
Plan approved by the Director.

Page 5 of 18

 (b) Each Stewardship Plan must be approved by the Director before the entity administering the plan
starts collecting Unwanted Covered Drugs. Once approved, each Stewardship Plan must have prior
written approval of the Director for proposed changes as described under Sec. 46-102.
(c) By six months after the effective date of this Division, or by six months after a Produce starts sale of
a Covered Drug in the County, a Producer must notify the Director in writing of the Producer’s intent
to participate in a Stewardship Plan, or to form a new Stewardship Plan.
(d) By six months after the effective date of this Division, or by six months after a retailer whose label
appears on a Covered Drug or the Covered Drug’s packaging starts selling the Covered Drug in the
County, or by six months after a Covered Drug repackaged by Repackager is first sold in the County,
and, thereafter, upon request from the Director, a retailer or Repackager whose label appears on a
Covered Drug or the Covered Drug’s packaging must provide:
(1) written notification as to whether the Manufacturer from whom the retailer or Repackager
obtains the Covered Drug has provided its notice of intent to participate; and
(2) the contact information of the Manufacturer from whom the retailer or Repackager obtains
the Covered Drug, including the telephone number, mailing address and email address of the
retailer’s or Repackager’s point of contact at the Manufacturer.
(e) A Producer, either individually or jointly with other Producers, shall:
(1) By nine months after the effective date of this Division, or nine months after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, identify in writing to the Director a Stewardship Plan operator,
including the operator’s telephone, mailing address and email contact information, that is
authorized to be the official point of contact for the Stewardship Plan;
(2) By nine months after the effective date of this Division, or nine months after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, notify all Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies in the County
of the opportunity to participate as a drop-off site in accordance with Sec. 46-105 of this Division
and provide a process for forming an agreement between the Stewardship Plan and interested
Collectors; and annually thereafter, make the same notification to any nonparticipating or new
Pharmacies in the County;
(3) By one year after the effective date of this Division, or one year after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, submit a proposed Stewardship Plan as described in Sec. 46-104 to
the Director for review;
(4) Within three months after the Director’s approval of the Stewardship Plan, operate or
participate in the Stewardship Plan in accordance with this Division;
(5) At least every four years after the Stewardship Plan starts operations, submit an updated
Stewardship Plan to the Director explaining any substantive changes to components of the
Stewardship Plan required in Sec. 46-104. The updated Stewardship Plan shall be accompanied
by the plan review fee in accordance with Section 46-115 of this Division. The Director shall
review updated Stewardship Plans using the process described in Sec. 46-111 of this Division;
and

Page 6 of 18

 (6) Pay all administrative and operational costs and fees associated with its Stewardship Plan.
(f) A Producer, either individually or jointly with other Producers, may:
(1) Enter into contracts and agreements with Stewardship Organizations, other service providers,
or other entities as necessary, useful or convenient to carry out all or portion of their Stewardship
Plan;
(2) Notify the Director of any Producer selling Covered Drugs Manufactured by that Producer or
group of Producers in the County that is failing to participate in a Stewardship Plan; and
(3) Perform any other functions as may be necessary or proper to carry out the Stewardship Plan
and to fulfill any or all of the purposes for which the plan is organized.
(g) After the first full year of participation in a Stewardship Plan, a Producer or group of Producers may
notify the Director in writing of intent to form a new Stewardship Plan, and identify a plan operator,
including the plan operator’s telephone, mailing address, and email contact information, that is
authorized to be the official point of contact for the proposed new Stewardship Plan. Within three
months of such notification, the Producer or group of Producers shall submit a proposed Stewardship
Plan as described under Sec. 46-104 to the Director for review.
(h) The Director may, on a case-by-case basis, approve in writing requests for extensions of time for the
submission dates and deadlines in this Sec. 46-103.
(i) The Director may audit the records of a Producer, group of Producers, or Stewardship Organization
related to a Stewardship Plan or request that the Producer, group of Producers, or Stewardship
Organization arrange for the Director to inspect at reasonable times a Stewardship Plan’s or a Collector’s
facilities, vehicles, and equipment used in carrying out the Stewardship Plan.
Sec. 46-104 - Stewardship Plans - Components.
Each Stewardship Plan, which must be submitted and reviewed according to Sec. 46-111, shall include:
(a) Contact information for all Producers participating in the Stewardship Plan, including each Drug
Producer’s name, address, phone number, and email address, and the name, address, phone number, and
email address of a human being to whom the Director may direct all inquiries regarding the Producer’s
participation in the Stewardship Plan;
(b) A description of the proposed collection system to provide convenient ongoing collection service for
all Unwanted Covered Drugs from County residents in compliance with the provisions and requirements
in Sec. 46-105, including a list of all collection methods and participating Collectors, a list of drop-off
sites, a description of how any periodic collection events will be scheduled and located, a description of
how any mail-back services will be provided and an example of the prepaid, preaddressed mailers the
plan will use. The description of the collection service shall include a list of Retail Pharmacies and law
enforcement agencies contacted by the plan under Sec. 46-103 (e)(2) of this Division, and a list of all
Collectors who offered to participate;

Page 7 of 18

 (c) A description of the handling and disposal system, including identification of and contact information
for Collectors, transporters and waste disposal facilities to be used by the Stewardship Plan in
accordance with Sec. 46-105 and Sec. 46-107 of this Division;
(d) A description of the policies and procedures to be followed by Persons handling Unwanted Covered
Drugs collected under the Stewardship Plan, including a description of how all Collectors, transporters
and waste disposal facilities used will ensure that the collected Unwanted Covered Drugs are safely and
securely tracked from collection through final disposal, and how all entities participating in the
Stewardship Plan will operate under and comply with all applicable federal and state laws, rules and
guidelines, including but not limited to those of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, and
how any Pharmacy collection site will operate under applicable rules and guidelines of the Safe
Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et. seq.
(e) A certification that any patient information on Drug packaging will be promptly destroyed;
(f) A description of the public education effort and promotion strategy required in Sec. 46-106 of this
Division, including a copy of standardized instructions for County residents, signage developed for
Collectors, and required promotional materials;
(g) Proposed short-term and long-term goals of the Stewardship Plan for collection amounts, education
and promotion; and
(h) A description of how the Stewardship Plan will consider:
(1)

use of existing providers of waste pharmaceutical services;

(2)

separating Covered Drugs from packaging to the extent possible to reduce transportation
and disposal costs; and

(3)

recycling of Drug packaging to the extent feasible.

Sec. 46-105 - Stewardship Plans - Collection of Covered Drugs.
(a) This Section does not require any Person to serve as a Collector in a Stewardship Plan. A Person may
offer to serve as a Collector voluntarily, or may agree to serve as a Collector in exchange for incentives
or payment offered by a Producer, group of Producers or Stewardship Organization. Collectors may
include law enforcement agencies, Pharmacies, mail-back services or other entities, operating in
accordance with state and federal laws and regulations for the handling of Covered Drugs, including but
not limited to those of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, and in compliance with this
Division. A Pharmacy collection site shall operate under applicable rules and guidelines of the Safe
Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et. seq.
(b) The collection system for each Stewardship Plan shall:
(1) Provide reasonably convenient and equitable access for County residents in all Districts
through drop-off sites. The system of drop-off sites shall provide at least one drop-off site for
every 20,000 County residents in each District, located in every city, town or unincorporated area,
geographically distributed to provide reasonably convenient and equitable access, but at no time
Page 8 of 18

 shall there be less than five drop-off sites per District. If the service convenience goal in this
subsection (b)(1) cannot be achieved due to a lack of drop-off sites at pharmacies, law
enforcement agencies, or other qualified Collectors in each District, then those areas shall be
served through periodic collection events and/or or mail-back services. The system of drop-off
sites shall provide in every city, town, or unincorporated community service area with a
pharmacy or law enforcement facility, one drop-off site and a minimum of at least one additional
drop-off site for every thirty thousand residents, geographically distributed to provide reasonably
convenient and equitable access.
(2) Be safe and secure, including providing for the prompt destruction of patient information on
Drug packaging.
(3) Give preference to having Retail Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies serve as drop-off
sites.
(4) Include, as Collectors, any Pharmacy or any law enforcement agency willing to serve
voluntarily as a drop-off site for Unwanted Covered Drugs and able to meet the requirements of
this Division within three months of their offer to participate, unless the Collector requests a
longer time frame. A Stewardship Plan may also accept other Collectors willing to serve as a
drop-off site for Unwanted Covered Drugs and able to meet the requirements of this Division;
and
(5) Make mail-back services available, free of charge, to disabled and homebound County
residents upon request through the Stewardship Plan’s toll-free telephone number and web site,
and through distribution of prepaid, preaddressed mailers to Persons providing services to such
County residents. The toll-free telephone number and web site required by this subsection (b)(5)
shall be in English, Spanish, Polish, Chinese, Korean, and Russian.
(c) In addition to the collection system described in subsection (b)(1), all stewardships plans shall
jointly operate a drop-off site within each County-owned pharmacy.
(d) Drop-off sites shall accept all Covered Drugs from County residents during all hours that the
Pharmacy, law enforcement agency, or other Collector is normally open for business with the public.
Drop-off sites not operated by a law enforcement agency shall utilize secure collection bins in
compliance with all applicable requirements, including but not limited to those of the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration and the Safe Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et.
seq. In the event that more than one Stewardship Plan operates a drop-off site at a particular location,
each drop-off site must accept all Covered Drugs.

Sec. 46-106 - Stewardship Plans - Promotion.
(a) All Stewardship Plans shall coordinate with each other and develop a single system of promotion that
shall:
(1) Promote the Stewardship Plans so that collection options for Covered Drugs are widely
understood by County residents, pharmacists, retailers of Covered Drugs and health care
practitioners including doctors and other prescribers, veterinarians and veterinary hospitals,
and promote the safe storage of Covered Drugs by County residents;
Page 9 of 18

 (2) Work with Collectors participating in Stewardship Plans to develop clear, standardized
instructions for County residents on the use of collection bins and a readily-recognizable,
consistent design of collection bins;
(3) Establish a single toll-free telephone number and single web site where collection options and
current locations of drop-off sites will be publicized, and prepare educational and outreach
materials promoting safe storage of medicines and describing where and how to return Unwanted
Covered Drugs to the Stewardship Plan. These materials must be provided to Pharmacies, health
care facilities, veterinary facilities, and other interested parties for dissemination to County
residents. Plain language and explanatory images should be used to make use of medicine
collection services readily understandable by all County residents, including individuals with
limited English proficiency;
(4) Conduct a biennial survey of County residents and a survey of pharmacists, veterinarians, and
health professionals in the County who interact with patients on use of medicines after the
first full year of operation of the plans. Survey questions shall measure percent awareness of
the Stewardship Plans, assess to what extent drop-off sites and other collection methods are
convenient and easy to use, and assess knowledge and attitudes about risks of abuse,
poisonings and overdoses from prescription and nonprescription medicines used in the home.
Draft survey questions shall be submitted to the Director for review and comment at least 30
days prior to initiation of the survey. Results of the survey shall be reported to the Director
and made available to the public on the website required in this Sec. 46-106 within 90 days of
the end of the survey period. The privacy of all survey respondents shall be maintained.
(b) All surveys, outreach, education, promotion, websites, and toll-free phone numbers required by this
Section 16-106 shall be in English, Spanish, Polish, Chinese, Korean, and Russian.
(c) The Director shall provide guidance on the development of a single system of promotion.
Sec. 46-107 - Stewardship Plans - Disposal of Covered Drugs.
(a) Covered Drugs collected under a Stewardship Plan must be disposed of at a permitted hazardous
waste disposal facility as defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency under 40 C.F.R.
parts 264 and 265.
(b) The Director may grant approval for a Stewardship Plan to dispose of some or all collected Covered
Drugs at a permitted large municipal waste combustor, as defined by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency under 40 C.F.R. parts 60 and 62, if the Director deems the use of a hazardous waste
disposal facility described under subsection (a) of this Sec. 46-107 to be infeasible for the Stewardship
Plan based on cost, logistics or other considerations.
(c) A Stewardship Plan may petition the Director for approval to use final disposal technologies that
provide superior environmental and human health protection than provided by the disposal technologies
in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 6 or equivalent protection at lesser cost. The proposed
technology must provide equivalent or superior protection in each of the following areas:

Page 10 of 18

 (1) monitoring of any emissions or waste;
(2) worker health and safety;
(3) reduction or elimination of air, water or land emissions contributing to persistent,
bioaccumulative, and toxic pollution; and
(4) overall impact on the environment and human health.

Sec. 46-108 - Stewardship Plans - Administrative and Operational Costs and Fees.
(a) A Producer or group of Producers participating in a Stewardship Plan shall pay all administrative and
operational costs related to their Stewardship Plan, except as provided under this Sec. 46-108.
Administrative and operational costs related to the Stewardship Plan include but are not limited to the
following:
(1) Collection and transportation supplies for each drop-off site;
(2) Acquisition of all secure collection bins for drop-off sites;
(3) Ongoing maintenance or replacement of secure collection bins, as requested by Collectors;
(4) Prepaid, preaddressed mailers provided to disabled and/or home-bound County residents;
(5) Operation of periodic collection events, including costs of law enforcement staff time if
necessary;
(6) Transportation of all collected Covered Drugs to final disposal, including costs of law
enforcement escort if necessary;
(7) Environmentally sound disposal of all collected Covered Drugs under Sec. 46-107 of this
Division;
(8) Program promotion under Sec. 46-106 of this Division; and
(b) No Person or Producer may charge a point-of-sale fee to consumers to recoup the costs of their
Stewardship Plan, nor may they charge a specific point-of-collection fee at the time the Covered Drugs
are collected.
(c) Producers are not required to pay for costs of staff time at drop-off sites provided by Collectors
volunteering to participate in a Stewardship Plan.

Sec. 46-109 - Stewardship Plans - Reporting Requirements.
(a) Within six months after the end of the first 12-month period of operation, and annually thereafter, the
plan operator of a Stewardship Plan shall submit a report to the Director on behalf of participating
Producers describing their plan’s activities during the previous reporting period. The report must include:
Page 11 of 18

 (1) A list of Producers participating in the Stewardship Plan;
(2) The amount, by weight, of Covered Drugs collected, including the amount by weight from
each collection method used;
(3) A list of drop-off sites;
(4) The number of mailers provided for disabled and/or home-bound County residents;
(5) The locations where mailers were provided, if applicable;
(6) The dates and locations of collection events held, if applicable;
(7) The transporters used and the disposal facility or facilities used for all Covered drugs;
(8) Whether any safety or security problems occurred during collection, transportation or disposal
of Unwanted Covered Drugs during the reporting period and, if so, what changes have or will be
made to policies, procedures or tracking mechanisms to alleviate the problem and to improve
safety and security in the future;
(9) A description of the public education, outreach and evaluation activities implemented during
the reporting period;
(10) A description of how collected packaging was recycled to the extent feasible, including the
recycling facility or facilities used;
(11) A summary of the Stewardship Plan’s goals, the degree of success in meeting those goals in
the past year, and, if any goals have not been met, what effort will be made to achieve the goals in
the next year; and
(12) The total expenditures of the Stewardship Plan during the reporting period.
(b) The Director shall make reports submitted under this Section available to the public.
(c) For the purposes of this Sec. 46-109, “reporting period” means the period from January 1 through
December 31 of the same calendar year, unless otherwise specified to the plan operator by the Director.

Sec. 46-110 - Stewardship Plans - List of Producers of Covered Drugs.
Beginning 60 days after the effective date of this Division, each Drug Wholesaler that sells any Covered
Drug in the County must provide a list of the Producers of those Covered Drugs to the Director in a form
prescribed by the Director. Wholesalers must update and resubmit the list by January 15 each year.

Page 12 of 18

 Sec. 46-111 - Stewardship Plans - Review Of Proposed Plans.
(a) By one year after the effective date of this Division, or one year after starting sale of a Covered Drug
in the County, each Producer, group of Producers or Stewardship Organization shall submit its proposed
Stewardship Plan to the Director for review, accompanied by the plan review fee in accordance with Sec.
46-115 of this Division. The Director may upon request provide information, counseling, and technical
assistance about the requirements of this Division to assist with the development of a proposed
Stewardship Plan.
(b) The Director shall review the proposed Stewardship Plan and determine whether it meets the
requirements of this Division. In reviewing a proposed Stewardship Plan, the Director shall provide an
opportunity for written public comment on the proposed Stewardship Plan and consider any comments
received.
(c) After the review under subsection (b) of this Sec. 46-111 and within 90 days after receipt of the
proposed Stewardship Plan, the Director shall either approve or reject the proposed Stewardship Plan in
writing and, if rejected, provide reasons for the rejection.
(d) If the Director rejects a proposed Stewardship Plan, a Producer, group of Producers, or Stewardship
Organization must submit a revised Stewardship Plan to the Director within 60 days after receiving
written notice of the rejection. The Director shall review and approve or reject a revised Stewardship
Plan as provided under subsections (b) and (c) of this Sec. 46-111.
(e) If the Director rejects a revised Stewardship Plan, or any subsequently revised plan, the Director may
deem the Producer or group of Producers out of compliance with this Division and subject to the
enforcement provisions in this Division.
(f) In approving a proposed Stewardship Plan, the Director may exercise reasonable discretion to waive
strict compliance with the requirements of this Division that apply to Producers in order to achieve the
objectives of this Division.
(g) The Director shall make all Stewardship Plans and proposed plans submitted under this Section
46-111 available to the public.

Sec. 46-112 - Stewardship Plans - Prior Approval for Change.
(a) Proposed changes to an approved Stewardship Plan that substantively alter plan operations,
including, but not limited to, changes to participating Manufacturers, collection methods, achievement of
the service convenience goal, policies and procedures for handling Unwanted Covered Drugs, or
education and promotion methods or disposal facilities, must be approved in writing by the Director
before the changes are implemented.
(b) A Producer or group of Producers or Stewardship Organization participating in an approved
Stewardship Plan shall submit proposed changes to an approved Stewardship Plan within six months
upon notice from the Director of a change to the population of a District as described in Sec. 46-105 (b)
(1).

Page 13 of 18

 (c) A Producer or group of Producers or Stewardship Organization participating in a Stewardship Plan
shall submit to the Director any proposed change to a Stewardship Plan as described under subsection
(a) of this Sec. 46-111 in writing at least 30 days before the change is scheduled to occur and
accompanied by the review fee in accordance with Sec. 46-115 of this Division.
(d) A Producer or group of Producers or Stewardship Organization participating in an approved
Stewardship Plan shall notify the Director at least 15 days before implementing any changes to drop-off
site locations, methods for scheduling and locating periodic collection events, or methods for distributing
prepaid, preaddressed mailers, that do not substantively alter achievement of the service convenience
goal under Sec. 46-105(b)(1) of this Division, or other changes that do not substantively alter plan
operations under subsection (a) of this Sec. 46-111.
(e) A Producer or group of Producers or Stewardship Organization may request an advance
determination from the Director whether a proposed change would be deemed to substantively alter plan
operations.

Sec. 46-113 - Stewardship Plans - Enforcement and Penalties.
(a) The Director shall administer the penalty provisions of this Division.
(b) If the Director makes findings and determines that any Person has violated this Division or a
regulation adopted pursuant to this Division, the Director shall send a written warning, as well as a copy
of this Division and any regulations adopted pursuant to this Division, to the Person or Persons who
violated it. The Person or Persons shall have 30 days after receipt of the warning to come into
compliance and correct all violations.
(c) If the Person or Persons fail to come into compliance or correct all violations, the Director may
impose administrative fines for violations of this Division or of any regulation adopted pursuant to this
Division.
(1) Upon findings made under subsection (b), the Person or Persons shall be subject to an
administrative fine as follows:
(A) A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation;
(B) A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation;
(C) A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third violation and each
subsequent violation.
(2) Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate violation.
(3) Fine Procedures. Notice of the fine shall be served on the Person or Persons. The notice shall
contain an advisement of the right to request a hearing in the Cook County Department of
Administrative Hearings. Hearings on violations shall be conducted in accordance with Article
IX. - Administrative Hearings of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

Page 14 of 18

 (4) Failure to Pay Fine. If said fine is not paid within 30 days from the date appearing on the
notice of the fine or of the notice of determination of the Director or his or her designee after the
hearing, the Director may use any lawful means for collecting the fine, including instituting an
action in any court of proper jurisdiction.

(d) The County, a Producer, group of Producers, a Stewardship Organization, a group of Stewardship
Organizations, any organization with tax exempt status under 26 United States Code Section 501(c)(3) or
501(c)(4) and with a primary mission of protecting the environment in the Cook County, or a
combination thereof may bring a civil action to enjoin violations of or compel compliance with any
requirement of this Division or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Division, as well as for
payment of civil penalties and any other appropriate remedy. The court shall award reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs to the County, Producer, group of Producers, Stewardship Organization, group
of Stewardship Organizations, organization with tax exempt status under 26 United States Code Section
501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) and with a primary mission of protecting the environment in Cook County, or a
combination thereof that is the prevailing party in a civil action brought under this subsection (d). A
Producer, group of Producers, Stewardship Organization, group of Stewardship Organizations,
organization with tax exempt status under 26 United States Code Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) and with
a primary mission of protecting the environment in Cook County, or a combination thereof may institute
a civil action under this subsection (d) only if:
(1) The Producer, group of Producers, Stewardship Organization, group of Stewardship
Organizations, organization with tax exempt status under 26 United States Code Section
501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) and with a primary mission of protecting the environment in Cook County,
or a combination thereof has filed a Complaint with the Chief Executive Officer;
(2) 90 days have passed since the filing of the Complaint;
(3) After such 90-day period has passed, the Producer, group of Producers, Stewardship
Organization, group of Stewardship Organizations, organization with tax exempt status under 26
United States Code Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) and with a primary mission of protecting the
environment in Cook County, or a combination thereof provides 30-day written notice to the
Director and the County Counsel’s Office of its intent to initiate civil proceedings; and
(4) The County has not provided notice to the Producer, group of Producers, Stewardship
Organization, group of Stewardship Organizations, organization with tax exempt status under 26
United States Code Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) and with a primary mission of protecting the
environment in Cook County, or a combination thereof of the County’s intent to initiate civil
proceedings by the end of the 30-day period.
(e) Any Person who knowingly and willfully violates the requirements of this Division or any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant to this Division is punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50)
and not more than five hundred ($500) for each day per violation.
(f) Any Person in violation of this Division or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Division
shall be liable to the County for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000)
per day per violation. Each day in which the violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Civil penalties shall not be assessed pursuant to this subsection (f) for the same violations for which the
Director assessed an administrative penalty pursuant to subsection (c) of this Sec. 46-113.
Page 15 of 18

 (g) In determining the appropriate penalties, the court or the Director shall consider the extent of harm
caused by the violation, the nature and persistence of the violation, the frequency of past violations, any
action taken to mitigate the violation, and the financial burden to the violator.
(h) No civil or administrative action under this Sec. 46-113 may be brought more than four years after
the date of the alleged violation.

Sec. 46-114 - Stewardship Plans - Rules, Performance Standards, and Report.
(a) The Director, following public notice and a hearing, may adopt rules necessary to implement,
administer, and enforce this Division.
(b) The Director may work with the Stewardship Plan operator to define goals for collection amounts,
education, and promotion for a Stewardship Plan.
(c) The Director shall report as requested to the Board concerning the status of all Stewardship Plans and
recommendations for changes to this Division. The report may also include a summary of available data
on indicators and trends of abuse, poisonings and overdoses from prescription and nonprescription drugs
and a review of comprehensive prevention strategies to reduce risks of drug abuse, overdoses, and
preventable poisonings.

Sec. 46-115 - Stewardship Plans - Plan Review and Annual Operation Fees.
(a) The Board authorizes the Director to charge the fees identified in this Division. A Producer or group
of Producers participating in a Stewardship Plan shall pay to the Director plan review fees to be
established under subsection (d) of this Section 46-115 for:
(1) Review of a proposed Stewardship Plan;
(2) Resubmittal of a proposed Stewardship Plan;
(3) Review of changes to an approved Stewardship Plan;
(4) Submittal of an updated Stewardship Plan at least every four years under Sec. 46
103(e)(5) of this Division; or
(5) Review of any petition for approval to use alternative final disposal technologies under Sec.
46-107(c) of this Division.
(b) In addition to plan review fees, a Producer or group of Producers participating in a Stewardship Plan
shall pay to the Director annual operating fees to be established under subsection (d) of this Sec. 46-115.
(c) A Stewardship Organization may remit fees on behalf of participating Producer(s).
(d) The Director shall set the fees to recover but not exceed actual costs to the County at a rate duly
approved by the Board.
Page 16 of 18

 Sec. 46-116 - Advisory Committee
(a) There shall be created a Pharmaceutical Disposal Advisory Committee made up of the President of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners or his or her designee and six other members appointed by the
President. Members of the Advisory Committee shall include:
(1) The President, or his or her designee; and
(2) One member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; and
(3) The Sheriff, or his or her designee; and
(4) The Director of the Cook County Department of Environmental Control, or his or her
designee; and
(5) The Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of Public Health, or his or her
designee; and
(6) A member of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago, to be appointed by the President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Great Chicago.
(b) The Sheriff, or his or her designee, shall serve as the Chairman of the Advisory Committee. The
Director shall serve as an ex officio member. The members of the Committee shall serve without pay.
(c)The purpose of the Advisory Committee is to oversee, advise and assist with the promotion and
implementation of the Cook County Pharmaceutical Disposal Program. The Advisory Committee may
formulate recommendations to bring about improvement in this regard.
(d)The members of the Advisory Committee shall meet quarterly or as designated by the Chairman.
(e)The Advisory Committee with the assistance of the Director shall prepare an annual report describing
the work undertaken by the program. The annual report shall be distributed to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on or before November 1st of each year. The report shall include minutes of meetings of
the Advisory Committee over the past year and a description of the types of programs that have been
implemented or outsourced.
Sec. 46-116 - Undertaking For the General Welfare.
In adopting and implementing this Division, the County is assuming an undertaking only to promote the
general welfare. It is not assuming, nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for
breach of which it is liable in money damages to any Person who claims that such breach proximately
caused injury.

Page 17 of 18

 Sec. 46-117 - No Conflict with Federal or State Law.
This Division shall be construed so as not to conflict with applicable federal or State laws, rules or
regulations. Nothing in this Division shall authorize any County agency or department to impose any
duties or obligations in conflict with limitations on authority established by State or federal law at the
time such agency or department action is taken. The County shall suspend enforcement of this Division
to the extent that said enforcement would conflict with any preemptive State or federal legislation
subsequently adopted. Nothing in this Division is intended or shall be construed to protect
anticompetitive or collusive conduct, or to modify, impair, or supersede the operation of any of the
antitrust or unfair competition laws of the State of Illinois or the Unites States.
Sec. 46-118 - Severability.
If any of the provisions of this Division or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of those provisions, including the application of such part or provisions to persons
or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby and shall
continue in full force and effect. To this end, the provisions of this Division are severable.

Sec. 46-119 - Applicability.
Without limitation, this section applies to areas of unincorporated Cook County, to areas owned or
operated by Special Districts within unincorporated Cook County, and to areas within municipalities
within the County which have not adopted ordinances governing the operation of pharmaceutical
stewardship plans within the said municipalities. To the extent a municipality has adopted an ordinance
addressing pharmaceutical stewardship plans, or to the extent a municipality adopts an ordinance electing
not to be bound by this pharmaceutical stewardship plans, the ordinance of the municipality shall apply,
and this section shall not apply, to any areas within the jurisdiction of the municipality.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect one hundred and eighty (180) days from the passage
date.

_________________________________________
Matthew DeLeon
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 18 of 18

 