Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice- President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Thursday, June 16, 2011

1:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 1:15
p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Kathleen Therese Meany;
Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; and Terrence
J. O'Brien

Absent:

1 - Barbara J. McGowan

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

11-0797

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Terrence J. O'Brien, there will be a Special
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago on Thursday, June 16, 2011,
immediately following the Regular Board Meeting, in the Board Room, 100
East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the Special Meeting is to appoint the Executive Director of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays
Absent:

1 - Barbara J. McGowan

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

2

Meeting Minutes

June 16, 2011

MOTION to appoint an Executive Director

11-0796

A motion was made by the Board of Commissioners, seconded by the Board of
Commissioners that this Motion be Adopted. The motion carried by the
following roll call vote:
Aye:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Kathleen Therese
Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos;
Terrence J. O'Brien

Absent:

1-

Barbara J. McGowan

Open Discussion
David St. Pierre introduced himself and addressed the Board.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Frank Avila, that this
Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this June
16, 2011, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
June 16, 2011

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 