MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH CARE TASK FORCE
May 3, 2016
118 N. Clark St., 4th Floor Conference Room
I. Call to Order and Introductions
Attendees: Venoncia Bate, Teresa Berumen, Commissioner Chuy Garcia, Steven Glass, Kathleen
Gregory, Sandy Kraiss, John Keller, Diane Limas, Andrea Munoz, Dr. Linda Rae Murray, Luvia
Quinones, Dan Rabbitt, Sendy Soto, Commissioner Robert Steele, John Squeo, Mireya Vera
II. Community Health Presentation (see attached)
Founded in 1993, Community Health is the largest volunteer-based health center in the nation. Three
pillars of success: philanthropy, volunteerism, partnerships. Supported by individuals, foundations,
corporations, and institutions provide over 90% of revenue. For every dollar donated, over $8.00 in care is
delivered at no cost to patients. Community Health is committed to reducing barriers to care: daytime,
evening and weekend hours, limited wait times, interpreters, onsite lab and pharmacy, no fee for any
service, prescription or supplies.
III. Draft Recommendations (see attached)
Discussion about potential Task Force recommendations to the County. More input is needed from Cook
County health care stakeholders, including Health Care Taskforce members, on how to design and
implement a direct access health program.
IV. Subcommittees Debrief
Barriers
The subcommittee needs data on languages spoken in the county by area. The goal is to identify all
clinics, where they are located, waiting lists, waiting limits, bilingual staff (in what languages) and
interpretation training. Discussion about current sliding fee scales and guidelines. Discussion about
promotoras and their importance to better community health.
Data/IT
Report back from Healthy San Francisco (HSF) inquiry; HSF contracts with third parties for most of their
IT needs. Report back on Consult Link/Medical Home Network inquiry: still working to schedule a
meeting. Next steps are to make recommendations to the full Task Force.
Finance/Reimbursements
Discussion about health care financial principles and one-tier care. The subcommittee needs to receive
numbers of the uninsured, create a map and resources and a cost savings analysis, and evaluate the per
member/month payment and Care Link policy.

 Partnerships/Existing Programs
Discussion about the Healthy Chicago collaborative (26 partner hospitals). Access to care includes
enrollment. Charity care is going down but bad debt is going up because individuals can’t pay deductible.
Community benefit is an important piece of the situation. There is a lack of data to understand what is
occurring with community assessments. Transportation is the first policy goals for the Health Impact
Collaborative.
V. Public Registered Speakers
One public registered speakers: George Blackmore

 