STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 8, 2011
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the
Board (participated by telephone-conference); Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the Board; Albert
Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel;
and staff members. Sharon B. Wells and Philip M. Kazanjian also acted as counsel to the Board at this
meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JANUARY 11, 2011

Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the January 11, 2011 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Zimmerman asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from January 1 to January 31, 2011. He presented the report and summarized
its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-10-133
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/County of McHenry

Chairman Zimmerman called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Tansino's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and
recommended that the Board remand the matter for consideration of other factors set out in Section 9(b) of
the Act. After discussion, Member Kimbrough moved to accept the general counsel's recommendation.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-09-139
Illinois Fraternal Order of Police Labor Council/Village of Lake Zurich
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to
ALJ Tansino's RDO, and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After
discussion, Member Coli moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues
presented by Petitioner's motion to strike the Employer's cross-exceptions, and recommended that the
Board deny the motion to strike. Member Kimbrough moved to accept the general counsel's
recommendation. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.

 3.
Case No. S-RC-10-238
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Zimmerman called the case. Counsel Kazanjian reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions
to ALJ Tansino's RDO, and recommended that the Board reject the ALJ's recommendation as to the
managerial issue and decline to address his findings as to the supervisory issue. After discussion, Member
Washington moved to accept Counsel Kazanjian's recommendation. Member Kimbrough seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-07-209
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/New Lenox Fire Protection District
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case Nos. S-CB-06-053, S-CB-06-055, S-CB-07-005, S-CB-07-007, S-CB-08-031
Elitha Brown/American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Zimmerman called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Executive Director Brosnan presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the
disbursement record. The Chair and Members then discussed and questioned various aspects of the fiscal
report. Executive Director Brosnan addressed their concerns. Thereafter, the executive director updated
the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency. After a short discussion regarding
whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was unnecessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Kimbrough made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of March, 2011.

2

 