REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON AUDIT
April 10, 2001

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Absent:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Butler, Hansen and
Lechowicz (5)
None (0)

Ex Officio
Members:

Laura A. Burman, County Auditor (1)

Absent:

Thomas Glaser, Chief Financial Officer (1)

Also
Present:

Commissioner Collins; Gary Fink, Principal – Arthur Andersen; Alvin Holley, Chief
Financial Officer-Bureau of Health Services; John J. Houlihan, SuperintendentVeterans’ Assistance Commission of Cook County; Linda Gillie Batchelor, Business
Manager-Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office; Darlena Williams-Burnett, Deputy
Recorder-Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office; Cathy Maras-O'Leary, Chief
Information Officer-Bureau of Information Technology and Automation; Marlene
Dantino, Business Manager-Highway Department; Donna Dunnings, Deputy Chief
Financial Officer-Bureau of Finance; Patrick Driscoll, Chief of the Civil Actions BureauState’s Attorney’s Office; and Sandra K. Williams, Secretary to the Board.

Court
Reporter:

Tony Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on
Tuesday, April 10, 2001 at the hour of 2:00 P.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118
North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
Following the call of the meeting, Chairman Daley recessed the meeting until 2:30 p.m.
The Chairman reconvened the meeting and requested that copies of the responses to questions
submitted to various departments and elected officials on the agenda items be placed in the record as
attachments to the Committee's report. Chairman Daley then recognized Commissioner Hansen.
1.

Institute of Forensic Medicine - Fee, Fax Cremation Permit, Imprest Cash and Estate
Accounts Financial Report for the year ended November 30, 1999, by Laura A.
Burman, County Auditor, dated November 30, 2000.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on December 27, 2000.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 2
2.

County Clerk - Redemption Fund and Fee Account Financial Report for the year
ended November 30, 1999, by Laura A. Burman, County Auditor, dated November 20,
2000.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on December 27, 2000.

3.

239537

BUREAU OF FINANCE, by Thomas J. Glaser, Chief Financial Officer. Transmitting a
Communication dated, October 27, 2000:
SUBJECT: SINGLE AUDIT REPORT FOR YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER 30, 1999
Attached is a copy of Cook County’s Single Audit Report for year ending November
30, 1999, as prepared by Washington, Pittman & McKeever, LLC. I respectfully
request that the report be referred to the Audit Committee for further discussion.
Referred to the Audit Committee on November 2, 2000.

Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item Nos. 1, 2, and 3-(#239537), seconded by
Vice Chairman Goslin. The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 4.
4.

239538 BUREAU OF FINANCE, by Thomas J. Glaser, Chief Financial Officer. Transmitting a
Communication dated, October 3, 2000:
SUBJECT:
1999

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT (CAFR) FOR FY

Enclosed is a copy of Cook County’s Fiscal Year 1999 Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report (CAFR) prepared by Arthur Andersen LLP. I am hereby requesting
the opportunity to discuss this report with the Finance Audit Committee of the Board of
Commissioners.
Also, included for your information, is an executive summary of the County’s
revenues, expenditures and fund balances as per the figures obtained from the FY99
CAFR.
Referred to the Audit Committee on November 2, 2000.

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on where the Forest Preserve District's financial data
is located in the report, Laura Burman stated that the District's financial information is presented on
page 60, under a separate special revenue fund tab, in the middle column referenced as "Forest
Preserve District-General."
Noting his concern regarding the District's past erroneous budget figures and the actual deficit figures
recently disclosed to the Board, Commissioner Hansen asked if the report’s financial information
concerning the District was accurate. Laura Burman stated that the information presented on page 49
does include the District's fiscal year 1998 financial statements, but differs slightly from the recently
disclosed figures due to the fact that the District's fiscal year differs from the County's fiscal year. She

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 3
noted the figures in the County's CAFR for the year ended November 30, 1999 do not include the
District's fiscal year 1999 financial statements.
Chairman Daley called on Gary Fink of Arthur Andersen to explain the financial information presented
in the report relating to the Forest Preserve District.
Gary Fink stated that the report (or CAFR) is based on financial statements for the County's fiscal year
ended November 30, 1999 (December 1, 1998 to November 30, 1999) and includes the Forest
Preserve District's audited financial statements, supplied to Arthur Andersen, for the year ended
December 31, 1998 (January 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998) as disclosed in the footnotes on page 49
of the report. He stated since the District's 1998 fiscal year end falls within the 1999 fiscal year of the
County, the audit covers the 1999 County combined financial statements, which includes 1998 financial
statements for the Forest Preserve District.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding how the District's information is shown in
the table on page 60, Gary Fink stated the general fund of the District, as well as the special revenue
funds, are shown in the County's combined financial statement. The capital project funds of the
District, as well as the debt service funds, are presented and combined (based on GASB's concept of
blending) with the County's capital projects in total.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 49 regarding what funds of the District are
included in the presented material under item 12, Gary Fink stated that the District's general fund
accumulated deficit for the year ended December 31, 1998 is shown as $10.2 million; and, the capital
projects fund accumulated deficit for the same period is shown as $800 thousand. Mr. Fink noted the
District's deficit for the year ended December 31, 1999 will be disclosed in the County's CAFR for the
year ended November 30, 2000.
In response to Commissioner Lechowicz’s question regarding a target date for the Forest Preserve
District's FY2000 audit, Mr. Fink stated he did not know since Arthur Andersen was not involved in that
audit.
On the question, Chairman Daley responded that Pandolfi, Topolski and Weiss & Co. was doing the
audit and stated that the target completion date is June, 2001.
Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item No. 4-(#239538), seconded by Vice
Chairman Goslin. The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 5.
5.

240683 BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES, by Ruth M. Rothstein, Chief, transmitting a
Communication, dated December 13, 2000.
This letter is to formally request that the Bureau of Health Services Audited Financial
Statements, related Management Letter and request for Bad Debt write-off for fiscal
year 1999 be forwarded to the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners for
discussion.
Referred to the Audit Committee on January 4, 2001.

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 1 regarding why a past recommendation to
increase the $250 purchasing limit for competitive bids had not been presented to the Board as of yet,

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 4
Chairman Daley noted that Pat Shymanski is working on the proposal and should be submitting it to the
Board for consideration in the near future.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 2 regarding why the past recommendation to
complete the development of a corporate compliance program had not been done, Alvin Holley stated
that David Carvalho, the Compliance Officer for the Bureau of Health Services, is working on the
recommendation.
In response to Commissioner Lechowicz's question regarding the penalties for not having a corporate
compliance program in place, Alvin Holley stated without a compliance program in place penalties can
run from $25 to $50 thousand dollars for each violation.
Commissioner Lechowicz suggested the Chairman send a letter to David Carvalho requesting a status
report and a target date for implementation of the Bureau of Health Services's corporate compliance
program.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 4 regarding a target date for correcting errors
on Medicare claims and eligibility records, Alvin Holley stated that the Bureau has notified the Medicare
program fiscal intermediary, AdminaStar, of the errors and has requested they correct their software.
Mr. Holley stated the Bureau currently is working with the intermediary to correct errors on a claim by
claim basis, but has set a 90-day target date for AdminaStar to resolve their software problem.
Mr. Holley suggested that the Bureau might have to seek legal action if AdminaStar has not corrected
the problem by the 90-day target date. Mr. Holley stated that these errors should not occur and did not
in the past when BlueCross/BlueShield was the Medicare program’s fiscal intermediary.
Commissioner Lechowicz requested further information on who AdminaStar is and what duties they
perform for the Medicare program relating to the Bureau's claim process.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 5 regarding how the depreciation expense
was derived, Alvin Holley stated that the $23.2 million depreciation expense relates to the total amount
of current year in use assets and is calculated using the historical costs of the assets depreciated over
an estimated useful life period. He noted buildings (property) are being depreciated over a forty year
period using historical costs (noted as $237,824,940) and building improvements (equipment) are being
depreciated over a ten to twenty year period (noted as $143,172,764), or a total value or accumulated
depreciation of $385,410,554.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding the relationship between the depreciation
expense and the accumulated depreciation, Alvin Holley stated that there is not a direct relationship
since the depreciation expense is the total amount based on the current year in use assets depreciated
over an estimated useful life and the accumulated depreciation is the total value of all assets
depreciated for prior years.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 19 regarding what caused the percentage
difference in the County pension funded ratio from 1996 to 1998 and what the Unfunded Actuarial
Accrued Liability (UAAL) percentages mean, Alvin Holley stated he would get an explanation of the
information from the County Pension Board and submit their response to the Chairman for the
members review, since the information in the report is put together by the County Pension Board, not
the Bureau.
Chairman Daley stated in the future when information is contained in a report but not provided by the
Auditor, a footnote should be provided on where and whom the information came from. On the same

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 5
subject, Commissioner Lechowicz suggested that two items should also be reflected in future reports
covering pension plan information: 1) an explanation of any change in the county pension provisions
authorized by the General Assembly, including the timeframe and the number of employees who took
advantage of the change; and 2) an explanation of how these factors impacted the amount of money in
the fund.
Commissioner Butler commented that the percentage difference shown on page 19 of the report may
reflect the impact of the County's 1997 early retirement incentive. He also suggested that the name of
the auditing firm or individual who prepares information contained in any report be provided in the
future.
Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item No. 5-(#240683), seconded by
Commissioner Lechowicz. The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 6.
6.

242358 BUREAU OF FINANCE, by Thomas J. Glaser, Chief Financial Officer. Transmitting a
Communication, dated March 19, 2001, from Thomas J. Glaser, Chief Financial
Officer, Bureau of Finance.
Subject:

Cook County Illinois-Memorandum on Internal Control Structure for
Fiscal Year Ending November 30, 1999.

Submitting a copy of the County’s “Memorandum on Internal Control” prepared by
Arthur Andersen for the period ending November 30, 1999. I am hereby requesting
that this item be referred to the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners for
further discussion.
Referred to the Audit Committee on March 20, 2001.

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 17, No. 2, regarding an explanation of the
Veterans’ Assistance Commission's management response, John Houlihan stated that under the
Military Veterans Assistance Act (330 ILCS 45) the Commission is authorized to operate in Cook
County and is permitted to receive funding assistance from the County Board. However, he stated
under the statute the Superintendent and its employees are technically not considered county
employees but rather are employees of the Veterans’ Assistance Commission. Mr. Houlihan explained
that the statute does permit the county to budget and fund the Commission's operations and give its
employees any benefits it agrees to provide. Currently, Mr. Houlihan stated the Cook County Board
treats the Commission's employees like other county employees and provides them with the same
benefits.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 20 regarding the status of fixing system
malfunctions and the target date for completion, Linda Gillie Batchelor stated that the Recorder's Office
is currently finalizing the review of an upgrade assessment report from Unisys (the system vendor) and
plans on sending the report by the end of next week to the Bureau of Information Technology and
Automation for their review and recommendations.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 6
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding if the problem can be resolved in the near
future or is it an inoperable system issue, Cathy Maras O'Leary stated that the current system was not
configured adequately and the requirements were not defined thoroughly enough to provide the office
with the hardware and software needed to integrate its Accounting and Cashiering systems. She noted
she had not reviewed the report from Unisys, but believed an RFP on the future needs of the
Recorder's office may need to go out to resolve the problem.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s inquiry for further history on the system, its problems and the
office's future needs, Darlena Williams-Burnett stated that the RFP went out in 1998 and three vendors
responded. Unisys won the bid. She stated that part of the problem was with the RFP, which by the
time it came back for bid and the initial installation of the system was delivered, the hardware and
software were already outdated. She explained that from the onset the office has not been confident
with the integrity of system and noted that the Board was informed by the Recorder's office of the
problems in integrating the cashiering data to the accounting system, along with the various temporary
solutions that were attempted.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding when the review will go to the Bureau of
Information Technology and Automation, Ms. Williams-Burnett stated that the Recorder's office expects
to get the Unisys report to Cathy Maras-O’Leary within the week for her committee's review and will
continue to work with the Bureau on their recommendations. She concluded that the Recorder's office
currently does not wish to upgrade the Unisys system, since it has not worked up to this point, and
hope to put out an RFP covering the committee's recommendation that would allow the office to move
to a Windows based system environment with the ability to interface the cashiering and accounting
systems.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding if the county has a contract performance
bond on the supplier, Pat Driscoll stated that no such bond is required on purchasing contracts that do
not involve construction, but could in the future be written into the purchasing specifications and
vendors contract.
Chairman Daley asked when the Recorder plans to submit a plan and RFP to the Board, Ms. WilliamsBurnett stated the office first needs the requirements and recommendations from Cathy Maras-O’Leary,
but would like to get this to the Board as soon as possible.
Cathy Maras-O’Leary stated she would start writing the RFP on the hardware and software together,
since the requirements of the Recorder's Office have not changed drastically and would work with
Darlena Williams-Burnett and the State's Attorney's Office to modify and incorporate any additional
recommendations.
In response to Commissioner Lechowicz's question on whether or not the County's RFPs include a
provision for errors and omissions, Patrick Driscoll stated he would look into this and get back to the
committee with a recommendation on language that could be included similar to a warranty clause
provision.
Commissioner Butler asked if Unisys's proposal to upgrade the system has been scrapped by the
Recorder's Office, since an RFP is being drafted. Darlena Williams-Burnett responded that the current
vendor continues to evaluate the problems with their system and has made recommendations that are
being reviewed. However, she stated since the office has no faith in the integrity of the information in
the current system it favors the Board's approval of an RFP for a new system.
Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item No. 6-(#242358), seconded by
Commissioner Lechowicz. The motion carried.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 7

The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 7.
7.

County Comptroller – Wage Deduction Garnishment Escrow Fund Financial Report for
the year ended November 30, 1999, by Laura A. Burman, County Auditor, dated
January 18, 2001.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 12, 2001.

Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item No. 7, seconded by Commissioner Butler.
The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 8.
8.

Cook County Department of Highways – Miscellaneous Revenue Account Financial
Report for the year ended November 30, 1999, by Laura A. Burman, County Auditor,
dated February 13, 2001.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 12, 2001.

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 5 regarding the target date for completion of
the fee ordinance, Marlene Dantino stated the department does not yet have a target date for
completion. Ms. Dantino stated that the fee ordinance was submitted to the Board for approval, but
was withdrawn and is currently under review.
Commissioner Hansen requested a status report be submitted to the Chair from the Highway
Superintendent.
Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item No. 8, seconded by Commissioner Butler.
The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 9.
9.

Social Casework Services Department – Social Services Fees and Restitution Trust
Funds Financial Report for the year ended November 30, 1999, by Laura A. Burman,
County Auditor, dated February 26, 2001.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 12, 2001.

Commissioner Butler moved to receive and file Item No. 9, seconded by Vice Chairman Goslin.
The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 10.
10.

Cook County – 1999 Property Tax Extension and Breakdown Report for Fiscal Year
1999, by Laura A. Burman, County Auditor, dated February 6, 2001.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 12, 2001.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 10, 2001
PAGE 8
Commissioner Hansen made the observation that the figure on taxes due to the County in
redevelopment districts has grown from $21,816,159.12 in 1997 to $33,356,675.38 in 1999 and noted
this should be watched since these funds represent a loss to the county's operating fund.
Commissioner Butler moved to receive and file Item No. 10, seconded by Vice Chairman Goslin.
The motion carried.
The Chairman then proceeded to Item No. 11.
11.

Office of the State’s Attorney - State Narcotics Forfeiture Fund Audit for year ended
November 30, 1999, prepared by Bansley and Kiener, LLP, dated January 3, 2001,
and submitted by Richard A. Devine, Cook County State’s Attorney.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 21, 2001.

12.

Office of the State’s Attorney - Narcotics Forfeiture Fund Audit for year ended
November 30, 1999, prepared by Bansley and Kiener, LLP, dated January 3, 2001,
and submitted by Richard A. Devine, Cook County State’s Attorney.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 21, 2001.

13.

Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department – Software Licensing Compliance Review as
of December 14, 2000, by Laura A. Burman, County Auditor, dated March 30, 2001.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on March 30, 2001.

Commissioner Hansen moved to receive and file Item Nos. 11, 12 and 13, seconded by
Commissioner Butler. The motion carried.
Commissioner Hansen moved to adjourn, seconded by Vice Chairman Goslin.
carried and the meeting was adjourned.

The motion

____________________________
John P. Daley
Chairman, Audit Committee

Attest:

_______________________________
Sandra K. Williams
Secretary to the Board

A transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 N. Clark Street
Room 567, Chicago, Illinois 60602.

 