Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Law Enforcement Committee
Wednesday, July 13, 2016

8:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-4311
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/10/2016

16-4141
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION TO URGE THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS TO PROVIDE FREE BURIAL OF
SPOUSES AND DEPENDENTS OF VETERANS AT ALL VETERAN CEMETERIES
WHEREAS, in 1862 President Lincoln signed into law language that created the first National Cemeteries for Civil
War soldiers who died while in service to the United States; and
WHEREAS, in 1867 Congress provided guidelines for the construction of cemeteries and for the eligibility of those
who can be buried in the national cemeteries free of charge; and
Page 1 of 7

 WHEREAS, between 1867 and the 1970s the act was expanded several times to include honorably discharged
members of the Army, Navy, and Marines who died in a destitute condition, solders who died on foreign soil, U.S.
citizens who served in the armed forces of any country at war with Germany or Austria during World War I,
members of the reserve components of the armed forces, and any member of the National Guard; and
WHEREAS, in 1978 the Department of Veterans Affairs created the Veteran Cemetery Grants Program that
assisted states, territories, and federally recognized tribal governments in providing gravesites for veterans in those
areas where national cemeteries cannot fully satisfy their burial needs; and
WHEREAS, a surviving spouse and dependent or minor child of an eligible veteran or armed forces member also
may be buried in a national cemetery at no charge; and
WHEREAS, states, territories, and tribal governments may impose additional requirements more stringent than
those required by federal law; and
WHEREAS, the Veterans Administration is authorized to reimburse a “plot allowance” to states for expenses
incurred in the burial of certain veterans; and
WHEREAS, the Veterans Administration does not provide reimbursement for the burial of a surviving spouse and
dependents or minor children of an eligible veteran not buried in national cemeteries; and
WHEREAS, since 1862 more than 3.8 million burials have taken place at the 133 national cemeteries, 33 soldiers’
government lots, and Confederate lots containing more than 20,000 acres; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County shall urge the United States Congress to fund the expenses of burial of spouses
and dependents of veterans at cemeteries that are operated by state, territorial, and tribal governments and that
receive funds from the Veteran Cemetery Grants Program; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to be presented to the members of the Illinois delegation of the U.S. Congress.
Legislative History: 6/29/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Law Enforcement Committee

16-4198
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
REPORT OF LOST, STOLEN, DESTROYED OR TRANSFERRED FIREARMS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 58, Offenses And Miscellaneous
Provisions, Article VII, Report Of Lost, Stolen, Destroyed Or Transferred Firearms, various sections within this
section of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 58-185. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "Report of Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Transferred Firearms Ordinance of Cook
County, Illinois."
Sec. 58-186. - Purpose.
Page 2 of 7

 Requiring persons who own or possess firearms within Cook County to promptly report to the Cook County Sheriff
the loss, theft, destruction or transfer of firearms will enable Cook County law enforcement agencies or the Sheriff's
Office to timely investigate the loss or theft, protect the public and help improve the public health and safety of all
persons in Cook County.
Permits a persons who reports to the Cook County Sheriff the loss, theft, destruction or transfer of firearms to submit
a copy of that report to the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office to maintain a permanent record of the loss,
stolen, destroyed or transferred firearm.
Sec. 58-187. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County means the County of Cook.
Firearm means any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, machine gun, handgun, assault weapon or other device that
fits within the definition of "firearm" contained in the Illinois Firearm Owners Identification Card Act (430 ILCS
65/1.1 et seq.) or any successor statute.
Local law enforcement agency means any political subdivision of the State or an agency of a political
subdivision that exists primarily to deter and detect crime and enforce criminal laws, statutes and ordinances.
Recorder means the Cook County Recorder of Deeds Office.
Sheriff means the Sheriff's Office of Cook County, Illinois.
Sec. 58-188. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to
(a) Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm; and
(b) Any person who owns or possesses a firearm and resides outside of Cook County who loses, destroys,
transfers or suffers a theft of the firearm in Cook County.
(c) This article shall control the reporting of lost, stolen, destroyed or transferred firearms except in home rule
municipalities which have a separate municipal ordinance requiring the reporting of transferred, lost, stolen or
destroyed firearms provided that such municipalities share such reporting data with the Cook County Sheriff
pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement.
Sec. 58-189. - Report of lost, stolen, or destroyed firearms.
(a) Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm that is lost, stolen, destroyed,
or is otherwise missing, in addition to any other requirements of this Code, shall notify the Cook County Sheriff's
Office in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff that his or her firearm has been lost, stolen, destroyed,
or is otherwise missing within 48 hours of the time he or she knows, or should have known, that his or her firearm
has been lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing, regardless of the location of where the firearm was lost,
stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing.
(b) Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm that is lost, stolen, destroyed, or is
otherwise missing, in addition to any other requirements of this Code, may notify the Recorder's Office by filing a
Page 3 of 7

 copy of the report given by a law enforcement agency that his or her firearm has been lost, stolen, destroyed, or is
otherwise missing.
(b) (c) Any person residing outside Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm that is lost, stolen, destroyed,
or is otherwise missing, in addition to any other requirements of this Code, shall notify the Cook County Sheriff's
Office in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff that his or her firearm has been lost, stolen, destroyed,
or is otherwise missing within 48 hours of the time he or she knows, or should have known, that the firearm has
been lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise missing, if the firearm was lost, stolen, destroyed, or is otherwise
missing in Cook County.
(c) (d)
A person reporting a firearm lost, stolen, destroyed, or otherwise missing shall provide the following
information:
(1) Owner name;
(2) Owner address;
(3) Owner Firearm Owner's Identification Card number;
(4) Date of acquisition;
(5) Place of acquisition;
(6) Means of acquisition;
(7) Firearm type;
(8) Firearm serial number; and
(9) Date when firearm was lost, stolen, destroyed, or otherwise missing.
Sec. 58-190. - Report of transferred firearms.
(a) Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm, in addition to any other requirements
of this Code, shall report the sale, transfer, inheritance, or other disposition of the firearm to the Cook County
Sheriff's Office in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff within 48 hours of the time when the firearm
has been sold, transferred, inherited, or otherwise disposed of, regardless of the location where the sale, transfer,
inheritance or other disposition of the firearm has occurred.
(b) Any person residing in Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm may report the sale, transfer, inheritance,
or other disposition of the firearm to the Recorder’s Office by filing a copy of the documentation recording the
sale, transfer, inheritance or other disposition.
(b) (c) Any person residing outside of Cook County who owns or possesses a firearm, in addition to any other
requirements of this Code, shall report the sale, transfer, inheritance, or other disposition of the firearm to the
Cook County Sheriff's Office in a manner prescribed by the Cook County Sheriff within 48 hours of the time
when the firearm has been sold, transferred, inherited, or otherwise disposed of, when the sale, transfer,
inheritance, or other disposition of the firearm occurs within Cook County.
(c) (d) A person reporting the sale, transfer, inheritance, or other disposition of a firearm shall provide the
following information:
(1) Owner name;
Page 4 of 7

 (2) Owner address;
(3) Owner Firearm Owner's Identification Card number;
(4) Date of acquisition;
(5) Place of acquisition;
(6) Means of acquisition;
(7) Firearm type;
(8) Firearm serial number;
(9) Date of sale, transfer, inheritance or other disposition; and
(10) The name, address, and Firearm Owner's Identification Card number of the transferee.
Sec. 58-191. - Exempt from reporting requirements.
The reporting provisions in Section 58-189 and Section 58-190 do not apply to the following persons:
(a) Sworn law enforcement officials while engaged in their official duties; and

(b) Members of the Armed Forces of the United States or the National Guard while engaged in their official
duties.
Sec. 58-192. - Violations; penalties.
(a) Any person violating or failing to truthfully comply with any of the reporting provisions in Section 58-189
or Section 58-190 of this article as required by the Cook County Sheriff’s Office shall be issued a notice of
violation and shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $1,000.00 for the first violation; $1,500.00 for the second
violation and $2,000.00 for each subsequent violation in addition to any other fines or penalties applicable from
any Federal, State or local laws or ordinances.
(b) If any fine is imposed pursuant to this section, such fine shall constitute a debt due and owing to the County.
If the fine is not paid within 30 days after the expiration of the time within which judicial or administrative review
of the adverse determination may be sought, or within 30 days after an action seeking review has been resolved
in favor of the County, the Sheriff, Director of the Department of Revenue or the State's Attorney may seek to
obtain judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the person fined.
Sec. 58-193. - Enforcement; rules and regulations.
(a) The Sheriff is authorized to enforce the required provisions of this article.
(b) The Sheriff is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations for the implementation of
this article and to prescribe all forms and the information required thereon that is not otherwise required in this
article.
(c) The Sheriff shall receive, collect and file the reports of the transfer, loss, destruction or theft of firearms and
cooperate or make available to law enforcement agencies the reports, for the purpose of investigative efforts.
Page 5 of 7

 (d) The Sheriff shall determine whether a person to whom a firearm is transferred has a valid Firearm Owner's
Identification Card issued by the Illinois State Police. If the Sheriff determines the transferee does not possess a
valid Firearm Owner's Identification Card or the transferee's Firearm Owner's Identification Card has been
revoked, the Sheriff shall have the authority to recover the Firearm Owner's Identification Card and any and all
firearms under the custody and control of the transferee.
(e) The Sheriff is authorized to cooperate with the state, municipalities, other County agencies and other law
enforcement entities to facilitate the implementation of this article.
(f) The Recorder is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations for the implementation of
this article and to develop a mechanism for ensuring the privacy of this information.
(g) The Recorder is authorized to disseminate this information only to law enforcement agencies as part of a criminal
investigation.
Sec. 58-194. - Administrative adjudication.
Any person issued a notice of violation pursuant to this article may request an administrative hearing in accordance
with Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
Sec. 58-195. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or clause of this article or the application thereof to any person is for
any reason deemed to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect, impair or invalidate any
remaining section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof or the application of this article to any other
person.
Secs. 58-196-58-199. - Reserved.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2017
Legislative History: 6/29/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Law Enforcement Committee

16-4199
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COOK COUNTY CHIEF JUDGE’S OFFICE TO CREATE
A SPEAKERS BUREAU AS AN EDUCATIONAL TOOL TO PROMOTE THE IMPORTANCE OF CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT
WHEREAS, the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution provides citizens the right to a speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury; and
WHEREAS, court cases have ruled that an impartial jury is selected from a pool of individuals that represent a
cross section of the community in regards to race, gender, and national origin; and
WHEREAS, in the American judicial system, the juror is entrusted with protecting the individual rights to life and
liberty; and
WHEREAS, jury service teaches an individual the skills needed for analyzing and processing contesting facts,
debating issues, listening and tolerating dissenting opinions; and

Page 6 of 7

 WHEREAS, a 2007 survey by the National Center for State Courts estimates that 32 million individuals are
summoned to service annually, but only 8 million actually show up to serve, and of that amount only 1.5 million
are selected to sit on a jury in a state each year; and
WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 99-0434 amended the Illinois School Code to require students to have at least one
semester of civics in order to graduate from high school; and
WHEREAS, this course will allow schools to integrate service projects with the classroom curriculum in enabling
students to leverage their knowledge to address community issues; and
WHEREAS, civic education has been used to teach the skills needed to be responsible citizens; and
WHEREAS, civics focuses on providing information on governmental institutions, current and controversial
issues, and the importance of the jury to our system of justice; and
WHEREAS, the new graduation requirements took effect as of January 1, 2016; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County Commissioner Stanley Moore will work on behalf of the Board in collaboration
with the Office of the Chief Judge of Cook County to create a Speakers Bureau consisting of current and retired
members of the bar; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that that the purpose of the Speakers Bureau is to reach out to the students within
the 4th District to discuss the importance of citizens performing their civic duty and responding to a summons for
jury duty; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a copy
of this resolution to Chief Judge Timothy Evans.
Legislative History: 6/29/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Law Enforcement Committee

________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Moore
Silvestri
Arroyo Jr., Butler, Fritchey, Goslin, Tobolski

Page 7 of 7

 