Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Committee
Tuesday, May 10, 2016

1:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,Silvestri and Suffredin (14)

Absent :

Commissioners Murphy, Steele and Tobolski (3)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107 (dd):
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
Rev. Curtiss DeYoung, Executive Director, Community Renewal Society
Lindsay Hammond, Community Renewal Society
Ali Simmons, Community Benefits Coalition
Gale Lewis, Community Benefits Coalition
Charles Austin, Community Benefits Coalition
Janice Peters, Action Now
Lisa DiChiera, Director of Advocacy, Landmarks Illinois
J. Michael Carr Jr., Executive Director, Fathers for the Furture
Lawrence Biondi, Progress Center
Clark Craig, Progress Center
Rev. Dr. William E. Crowder Jr., Park Manor Christian Church
Horacio Esparza, Progress Center for Independent Living
Clifton McFowler, BUILD
Kia Giles, Westside Health Authority
Quiwana Bell, Westside Health Authority
Dean Granger, Concerned Citizen
Phil Gregory, Brothers Standing Together
Benny Lee, NAEFI
Maty Bak, President, Ely Chapter, Lambda Alpha International
Dr. Nancy Quesada, Cook County Health and Hospital System
MarySue Barrett, Metropolitan Planning Council

 16-2503
Presented by:

ELAINE LOCKWOOD BEAN, Chief, Bureau of Asset Management

PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s):

Bureau of Asset Manag~ment

Vendor:

Clayco, Chicago, Illinois

Request:
contract

Authorization for the Office of the System Director-Supply Chain Management to extend and amend

Good(s) or Service(s):

Developer Service

Original Contract Period:

11/1812015 - 613012016 (Phase #1)

Proposed Contract Period Extension:

711/2016 - 0913012018

Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$946,410.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement):

1111812015

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

NIA

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):
This Increase Requested:
Potential Fiscal Impact:
Accounts:

NIA

$112,640,000.00
FY 2016 $13,027,729, FY 2017 $81,895,138, FY 2018 $17,717,133

1619

Contract Number(s):

H 15-25-126

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Summary: The County and CCHHS have determined that Clayco, Inc. (Developer) has completed Phase 1 of
the Agreement, which included programming, feasibility and schematic design services to meet CCHHS
administrative and clinical needs. A new 9-story, 282,000 square foot ambulatory and administrative office
building is proposed for the corner of West Polk Street and South Darnen Avenue. This building will allow
CCHHS to decommission nearly 680,000 square feet ofreal estate (including the Fantus Clinic, Polk Administration
Building, and Hektoen Auditorium and Office). This new building will allow CCHHS to compete in cunent and
future healthcare markets, improve outpatient services, reduce operating costs, avoid costly capital renewals for
obsolete buildings, and increase clinical and administrative efficiency.
The Agreement provides that upon completion of Phase 1 the County and CCHHS may elect to engage the
Developer for Phase 2 Services which will include the elaboration of the schematic design into design development,
construction documents and construction . The Construction Contract with the County and CCHHS will be added
as an amendment and modification to the Agreement.

Page 2 of 4

 The County and CCHHS seek authority to enter into a Construction Contract with the Developer which will be
added as an amendment and modification to the Agreement. The Clayco contract budget shall not exceed
$112,640,000.00 which includes: 1) $108,500,000.00 to design and construct the new buildings and related site
work; and 2) $4,140,000.00 as the owner's contingency. The Agreement will be extended to September, 2018 to
allow for Phase 2 Services to be completed.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Contract
Amendment be recommended for approval.

The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners AtToyo, Butler, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin,
Morrison, Silvestri and Suffredin (10)

Nays:

Commissioners: Boykin (1)

Absent:

Commissioners Fritchey, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Steele and Tobolski (6)

16-2198
Presented by: ELAINE LOCKWOOD BEAN, Chief, Bureau of Asset Management
JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED AGREEMENT
Department(s):

Real Estate Management

Other Part(ies): Civic Health Development Group ("CHDG"), CHDG is a joint venture development team of
MB Real Estate Services, Inc., Walsh Investors, LLC, Plenary Group USA Ltd and Granite Companies LLC,
Chicago, Illinois.
Request: Authorization for the Director of Real Estate Management to enter into a redevelopment
agreement and associated ground leases on behalf of the County of Cook with the Civic Health
Development Group ("CHDG").
Good(s) or Service(s): CHDG will serve as the County's market rate development team of the Old Cook County
Hospital site and adjoining real estate within the Cook County Hospital campus which is also known as the Hospital
Campus Redevelopment
Agreement period:
Fisca1 Impact:
Accounts:

Ninety-nine year ground lease, with (2) twenty-five year

Revenue Generating

NIA

Agreement Number(s):

NIA

Summary/Notes: CHDG was selected following the issuance of a Request for Proposal ("RFP") by the Cook
County Bureau of Asset Management Department of Real Estate in January of2015. The RFP solicited a master
developer for the redevelopment of the Old Cook County Hospital site and adjoining real estate, which includes
the Hektoen and Durand buildings in Chicago, Illinois. The redevelopment will be implemented by utilizing
market rate ground leases. The Redevelopment Agreement ("RDA"), will provide the County with a plan for
efficient use of the County's real estate assets and long range improvements for these identified real estate assets.
The RDA will enable the preservation and reuse of the historic Old Cook County Hospital building. Upon
completion, the project is also expected to enhance the hospital campus with new residential units, hotel rooms and
Page 3 of 4

 additional commercial space. The project buildings associated with the RDA will have a sustainability goal of
LEED Silver. Upon Board approval, the Director of Real Estate Management shall be authorized to (a) execute
the redevelopment agreement and the associated market rate ground leases with CHDG on behalf of the County
of Cook in the form submitted and on terms no less favorable than those set forth therein; and (b) execute such
additional documents as may be necessary to implement the foregoing. The Director of Real Estate shall be further
charged to deliver any and all notices under the RDA, including but not limited to any notice to terminate the
RDA in the event unsatisfactory matters are discovered during the due diligence period.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, that this Agreement be
recommended for approval.

The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners An·oyo, Butler, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin,
Morrison, Silvestri and Suffredin (10)

Nays:

Commissioners: Boykin (1)

Absent:

Commissioners Fritchey, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Steele and Tobolski (6)

Chairman Daley requested that a memorandum from Elaine Lockwood Bean, Bureau Chief, Bureau of Asset
Management, regarding the real estate development agreement and a letter from John Jay Shannon, MD,
CEO, Cook County Health and Hospital System regarding the Central Campus Health Center be entered
into the record.
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Anoyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,Silvestri and Suffredin (14)

Absent:

Commissioners Murphy, Steele and Tobolski (3)

Respectfully submitted,

Page 4 of 4

 