Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Timothy
Bradford, Commissioner Martin J. Durkan, Vice-President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Josina Morita,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Thursday, November 2, 2017

1:00 PM

DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET PRESENTATIONS

Call Meeting to Order
Kari K. Steele, Chairman for the Committee on Budget and Employment, called
the meeting to order at 1 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Absent:

1-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
David J. Walsh

Public Comment
None

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Board Room

 Special Meeting

1

Meeting Minutes

17-1154

November 2, 2017

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos and presiding Chairman
of the Committee on Budget and Employment, Kari K. Steele, a Special Meeting
will be held on Thursday, November 2, 2017, at 1:00 p.m. in the Board Room,
100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to present and accept the 2018 Executive
Director’s Budget Recommendations and related changes.
The Executive Director’s Budget Recommendations is available for review on
the District’s website, www.mwrd.org <http://www.mwrd.org>.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk

Attachments:

2018 Budget Presentation Departmental Slides_color2
2018 Budget Executive Director Presentation_ color2
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Timothy Bradford,
that this Report be Adopted. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes
- No nays

2

17-1151

Authority to Accept the Executive Director’s 2018 Budget Recommendations
and the Attached Changes

Attachments:

BF19 Consolidated Packet FINAL.pdf
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Martin J. Durkan,
that this Agenda Item be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote:

Aye:

5-

Frank Avila; Martin J. Durkan; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Absent:

4-

Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina Morita; David J. Walsh

Open Discussion
David St. Pierre, Executive Director, presented the 2018 Budget Recommendations

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 2, 2017

Summary of Requests
Law
Debra Shore requested a list of leases that will be expiring in the next five years
General Administration
Josina Morita requested an additional $100,000 to be budgeted to assist with stormwater
education
Mariyana Spyropoulos requested cost comparision on installing sensors for lighting and
water in the MOB restrooms and the overall savings for the District
Information and Technology
Kari K. Steele requested that apps be developed for android use
Debra Shore requested an additional $600,000 to be budgeted to implement an inspector
general

Adjournment
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Martin J. Durkan,
that this Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll
call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

5-

Martin J. Durkan; Josina Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Absent:

4-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; David J. Walsh

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 2, 2017, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 2, 2017

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 