Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing

Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Thursday, June 21, 2012

9:30 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 9:30
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; and
Terrence J. O'Brien

Absent:

1 - Cynthia M. Santos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

1

12-0792

Meeting Minutes

June 21, 2012

Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will hold a public hearing at
9:30 a.m. on the 21st day of June 2012 in the Board Room in the
Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago,
Illinois. The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public comments on
the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to issue not to
exceed $300,000,000 General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds to
provide funds required for the replacing, remodeling, completing,
altering, constructing and enlarging of sewage treatment works,
administrative buildings, water quality improvement projects, or flood
control facilities, and additions therefor, including, but not limited to, the
construction of pumping stations, tunnels, conduits, intercepting sewers
and outlet sewers, together with the equipment, including air pollution
equipment, and appurtenances thereto, to acquire property, real,
personal or mixed, necessary for said purposes, and for costs and
expenses for the acquisition of the sites and rights-of-way necessary
thereto, and for engineering expenses for designing and supervising the
construction of such works and other related and incidental expenses.
By order of Terrence J. O’Brien, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago.
Dated the 4th day of June 2012.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Patricia Horton, seconded by Kathleen Therese Meany,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays
Absent:

1 - Cynthia M. Santos

The call of the meeting stated above and the foregoing agenda item is
hereby approved.
/s/ Terrence J. O'Brien
President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
2

12-0891

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue
Capital Improvement Bonds in an amount not to exceed $300,000,000
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Kathleen Therese Meany,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes
Absent:

June 21, 2012

1 - Cynthia M. Santos

Open Discussion
Catherine O'Conner, Director of Engineering, addressed the Board to discuss the need
for said funding (Re: Item #2)
Hal Sprague, Manager of Water Policy, Center for Neighborhood Technology, inquired
if green initiative will be covered under said funding (Re: Item #2)

Adjournment
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Barbara J. McGowan, that
this Public Hearing be Adjourned.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this June 21,
2012, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
June 21, 2012

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 