Forest Preserves of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Council
September 10, 2015
1:15 pm to 2:45 pm: Pre-meeting Visit
Powderhorn Lake Nature Preserve, 13817-14451 Brainard Avenue, Burnham, IL 60633
3 pm to 5 pm: Council Meeting
Sand Ridge Nature Center, 15891 Paxton Avenue, South Holland, IL 60473

AGENDA
3:00 pm

1. Welcome & Introductions
2. Comments from the public
3. Approval of minutes for 6.23.15 meeting of the council (See attachment 1.)
4. Receive and file minutes for 8.7.15 review committee (See attachment 2,
page 2.)

3:15 pm

5. Review of draft 5 year implementation strategy. (See attachment 3.)

4:15 pm

6. Discussion of 2016 budget recommendations.

4:50 pm

7. Next steps
a. Authorize review committee to work with staff to incorporate
revisions and approval final documents, OR
b. Reconvene council in October.

5:00 pm

8. Adjourn

ATTACHMENTS
1. Minutes from 6.23.15 council meeting
2. Minutes from 8.7.15 review committee
3. Draft 5 year implementation strategy

1

 Attachment 1
The Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Conservation & Policy Council
Minutes for June 23, 2015 ▪ Village of Barrington Hills, 112 Algonquin Road, Barrington Hills, IL 60010

Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 3 pm. The following council
members and others attended:
Advisory Council Members
Wendy Paulson, chair
Robert Castaneda
Michael De Santiago
Peter Ellis
Terry Guen
Dr. Sylvia Jenkins
Falona Joy
Linda Mastandrea
Laurel Ross
Mark Templeton

Forest Preserve Staff
Amanda Grant
Anthony Tindall
Arnold Randall
Cathy Geraghty
Chris Adas
Cynthia Moreno
Daniel Rodriquez
Dennis White
Erik Varela
Lambrini Lukidis
Lydia Uhlir
Mary Pat Cross
Stephen Hughes
Troy Alim

Partners
Dr. Alejandro Grajal (CZS)
Benjamin Cox (FOTFP)
Emily Harris (Harris Strategies)
Dr. Gregory Mueller (CBG)
Justin Pepper (Bobolink
Foundation)
Lenore Beyer-Clow (Openlands)
Rebeccah Sanders (Audubon)
Richard Gamble (CZS)
Shelley Davis (FP Foundation)
Dr. Stuart Strahl (CZS)

Welcome. Council members Wendy Paulson and Laurel Ross gave a brief overview of the pre-meeting
hike at Galloping Hill - a large-scale, successful grassland restoration that is an exemplary example of the
forest preserves working together with contractors, volunteers, other government agencies and NGO’s
Public Comments. There was one public comment from Stuart Strahl, Ph.D., President & CEO, Chicago
Zoological Society (CZS)/Brookfield Zoo who expressed his full support of the Forest Preserves and cited
several initiatives including:




The Zoo is excited to be working in partnership with the Forest Preserves to implement the
Next Century Conservation Plan;
The Zoo is hosting the July board meeting of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
of Commissioners. Council members are invited.
The Zoo is launching a new “wild encounters” program at the Brookfield Zoo to help build a
constituency of people that appreciate nature.

In addition, Council Members Mark Templeton, Laurel Ross, and Wendy Paulson expressed their
appreciation for those who sponsored and participated in “Celebrating 100 Years of Beauty in the Forest
Preserves,” the Forest Preserves Centennial Symposium/Tour on May 28 and 29, 2015 at DePaul
University and Sagawau.

2

 Approval of minutes. A motion to approve the minutes of the April 6, 2015 meeting of the Council was
made by Mark Templeton and seconded by Laurel Ross; the minutes were unanimously approved by
voice vote.
Presentation by the People Committee. Co-chair Rebeccah Sanders explained that the role of the
People Committee is to connect the citizens of Cook County to nature. Co-chair Cynthia Moreno went
on to discuss the Preserves’ recent successes including opening new campgrounds and launching the
CLIC (Camping Leadership Immersion Course) program. Council Member Rob Castaneda recently
participated in a community partner CLIC training and stated he had an amazing time. He thought the
program was well run and appropriate for everyone from the experienced to the amateur. He
encourages all Council members to visit the campgrounds and is excited to introduce young people to
camping so they can experience nature without having to travel too far from home. Cynthia also
discussed the status of the signage and wayfinding plan and gateways project, and Rebeccah discussed
program partnerships and the importance and challenges of working with partners. Cynthia finished the
presentation by highlighting current top priorities of the People Committee, including:




Nature & Health
ADA Accessibility
Cultural Competency

(Also see Attachment 1A.)
Council members asked the following questions and offered guidance:
 Was the ADA considered and incorporated into the Signage and Wayfinding Plan? ADA issues
were discussed in some specific signage cases as part of the planning process and the Forest
Preserves will be incorporating a general policy into the final plan.
 What are the gateway sites? A gateway is be designed to invite and encourage people to enter a
forest preserve; entrances will be at high visibility locations with access to outdoor recreation
opportunities (such as trails) and will be revitalized through landscaping, signage, and other
interpretive elements. The Forest Preserves has been awarded funds from the Cook County
Department of Public Health through a CDC grant program in order to create a Gateway Master
Plan and site plans for 10 gateway locations.
 Are the funding needs highlighted in the People Committee’s presentation part of the Forest
Preserves budget or are they a Forest Preserve Foundation funding priority? The funding needs
outlined in the presentation are not currently part of any budget, but those needs may be
included in the Forest Preserves’ 2016 budget requests.
 Will or does the Forest Preserves offer people unrestricted open spaces to interact with nature
outside of the confines of a campground? The Forest Preserves are currently in the process of
producing literature on outside activity opportunities for each campground location.
Campgrounds are all different and offer many types of activities and opportunities for people to
experience nature including ropes courses/climbing walls, nature play areas, and nature trails.
Outside of the campgrounds, there are nature centers with nature play areas. The Forest
Preserves are currently working with the Chicago Zoological Society to develop a nature play
plan for each nature center.
 Is there a formal education program? While the Forest Preserves does not have a formal
education program, it does have many informal programs including Mighty Acorns, Citizen
Scientists in Action, It’s Cooler in the Forest, school field trips to nature centers, and classroom
programs in schools. Its educational programs have been professionally developed to be
3

 






flexible, to meet the needs of any curriculum, and to align with Illinois Learning Standards. The
Preserves also work with University of Illinois Extension to offer teacher training opportunities.
There are also many informal partnerships that use the Forest Preserves for curriculum based
programs, including Birds in My Backyard. The Preserves need to build on the success of its
current programs, which are dependent on the commitment of individual teachers and schools.
What are the metrics, quantitative and qualitative, that the Forest Preserves are using to
measure success with attracting people to the Preserves? The Forest Preserves is part of the
Cook County STAR performance management program through which the Forest Preserves
report quarterly numbers on six strategic areas which are made publicly available. For education
and outreach, the Preserves measure the number of participants in programs and number of
groups with which Preserves staff interact. Preserves staff welcome any recommendations on
how they can better measure programs. Metrics are available to view online at
http://fpdcc.com/star/
Will the website be translated into different languages? Currently website translation is not a
top priority but we are considering it. A suggestion was made that the Forest Preserves should
think about seeking volunteers to translate website in several languages if funding is an issue.
Are there targeted communities? The People Committee recently put together a map of where
the Forest Preserves and partners have groups with which they have worked. This map is a
starting point for determining what communities the Preserves and its partners are not
currently reaching and where the Preserves and its partners should focus.
Is it possible to leverage resources with partners? It is something the Forest Preserves can
consider, but even its partners need resources. The Preserves are working on relationship
building, but it can be difficult for community organizations to find funding for their current
programs and the Forest Preserves are not always a priority, so this has been a challenge.

The time to discuss key questions identified by the People Committee was limited, and it was suggested
that Council members provide feedback via email.
1. What do you perceive as the barriers to people accessing the Forest Preserves?
2. In what capacity can we count on the Conservation & Policy Council to assist the People
Committee in implementing these three priority areas?
Presentation by the Economics Committee. Co-chairs Richard Gamble and Chris Adas explained that
the goal of the Economics Committee is to insure that the people of Cook County will “value the
economic benefits of protected lands.” They explained that the Committee is focused on the following
priorities:




Documenting the economic value of the Forest Preserves
Encouraging economic business development
Developing a strategic marketing campaign

(Also see Attachment 1A.)
1. Chris and Rich asked for feedback on this key question: “How do we allocate limited resources
for surveys and marketing to be as efficient and effective as possible?” Also, how do we use the
results from surveys and market research in the most efficient and effective manner, ensuring
our decisions are data driven and focusing on our final goal--getting more people to use and
value the Forest Preserves?
4

 Council members asked questions and offered suggestions as follows:
 It’s a challenge to compete against for-profit companies for advertising/marketing. Consider
using an economic value report to show communities, municipalities and corporations the value
of the Forest Preserves This will help them see the forest Preserves as an asset and encourage
them to market the Forest Preserves on behalf of the Preserves and themselves.
 Consider developing an editorial calendar to help manage the marketing of the Forest Preserves.
 Consider the concept of place making/sense of place – how do we make the Forest Preserves
destination sites? Need to determine if we want to promote/market ‘destinations’ or just
general information/awareness.
 Utilize the Chicago Botanic Garden and Brookfield Zoo membership database and
communications portals to market the forest preserves. Consider a profile on the Preserves in
the Garden and Zoo magazines.
 Discovery Communications had a great approach to promoting the National Parks. Look into it.
 Need to consider public policy perspective and to think about the public and economic benefits
and how it’s translated to the forest preserves constituencies.
 Work with media outlets like WBEZ to do a profile on the Preserves or perhaps a regular feature.
 The value of partnerships is important to keep in mind, because partners all use the Preserves
and there is no competition.
 Think about partners for actual dollars—and expand partnership base to include local chambers
of commerce, real estate agents
 Consider corporations as ‘partners’ through volunteering, marketing, and actual dollars. Should
develop an asset map highlighting corporations adjacent to Preserves.
 Look at digital infrastructure and wayfinding.
 Focus on church and faith based institutions when trying to recruit new partners. People like to
give where they are involved already.
 General impression problem, corportations may not see the benefits of the Preserves.
 Is the Forest Preserves considering a naming rights policy? There are many opportunities for
naming with current assets. Could the Forest Preserves could make money? The Forest
Preserves is already considering naming rights/sponsorship and has worked with REI to sponsor
a trail, for example.
 People don’t think about the Preserves in the bigger picture of the regions assets. The Preserves
should come to mind when one thinks of the lakefront and the Chicago parks system.
 Consider joining forces with other partner agencies and corporations to develop a general
nature campaign to help promote the forest preserves. By aligning with others, the Preserves
have more opportunities for marketing, PR and research.
 Work with Choose Chicago and the “Epic” Campaign, e.g., birds making an epic journey an
stopping in the Forest Preserves.
 The Forest Preserves should considering highlighting its role with ADA25 Chicago as a marketing
opportunity.
Review and approval of amended language in section 4.3g of the Plan. A motion was made by Mark
Templeton and seconded by Peter Ellis to approve the amended language proposed to read as follows:
Put in place a financial plan that will produce the annual investment needed to restore 30,000 acres and
expand the forest preserves to 90,000 acres in 25 years, and to meet the other goals outlined in the Next
Century Conservation Plan.

5

 The language change was approved by majority vote. The Council stressed the importance of
determining a targeted annual measurement so we can hold ourselves accountable and know what we
need to do each year to reach our goals.
Early Action Seed Funding. $40,000 is currently available for funding small scale projects, with the
maximum award capped at $10,000. An RFP has been drafted and will be open to the public. Proposals
must accomplish the goals of the Next Century Conservation Plan and is open to both current and new
partners. Council members suggested the cross-committee initiatives could benefit from this funding.
Communications Strategy. The current www.nextcenturyconservationplan.com website is being
revamped to include information on the NCCP’s implementation process and the work of the
Conservation & Policy Council. Recent and future accomplishments will be featured on the website
through journalistic quality stories and progress on key targets for 2020 will be highlighted and tracked.
Adjournment. A motion was made by Falona Joy and seconded by Laurel Ross and the meeting was
adjourned at 5:00 PM.

6

 ATTACHMENT 1A
PEOPLE COMMITTEE TOP PRIORITIES FOR 2016
Nature and Health
2014/2015 Baseline

2016 Mileposts

• Health and education
workshops held with 25
community providers
• Held a Nature, Culture
and Human Health
Forum

•Hold four health/
community workshops
•Launch one pilot study
to document benefits of
nature and health

2016 Funding Needs
•$15K for four
workshops
•$20K for one pilot
study

Where wewant to be in2020
•Health/community
workshops held
regularly creating lasting
relationships with the
healthcare community
•Have documented
research validating
benefits of nature on
health

ADA Accessibility
2014/2015 Baseline
•Finalizing site and
facility assessment for
accessibility
•Creating a working
group focused on ADA
programming and
training

2016 Mileposts

2016 Funding Needs

•Prioritize facility and
site improvements
•Evaluate current
programs
•Develop programming
and training plan

•Staff time
•$150K (including ADA
consultant, equipment,
programming)

Where wewant to be in2020
•Implement Phase I of
ADA accessibility plan
•ADA awareness
integrated into staff
training
•Increase number of
accessible programs

Cultural Competency
2014/2015 Baseline
•Identify and prioritize
materials/signage for
translation
•Current culturally
focused programs and
partnerships

2016 Mileposts
•Develop
communications and
engagement strategy

7

2016 Funding Needs

Where wewant to be in2020

•$75K (consultant, focus
groups, marketing,
translation, and
programming)

•Programming,
materials and outreach
efforts will be reflective
of largest cultural
communities in Cook
County

 ECONOMICS COMMITTEE TOP PRIORITIES FOR 2016

Documenting Economic Value
2014/2015 Baseline

2016 Mileposts

2016 Funding Needs

Where wewant to be in2020

• With research
partners, document and
publicize the dollar value
and avoided costs of
nature’s benefits, such
as reducing flooding,
improving air quality
and storing carbon, as
well as offering free
public health amenities.

• The FPCC will develop
a report that documents
the full economic value
of the Preserves via land
type and other metrics
used by land mgt.
Agencies.
•The FPCC will produce
maps to show elected
officials, business
leaders, and other key
stakeholders, District
(District + Partner +
Volunteer) investments,
including direct job
creation figures.
•The FPCC will support
and identify
opportunities for
compatible economic
development.

•$10K-$100K (Possible
collaboration with Earth
Economics, U.S. Forest
Services, CW, CMAP)

•FPCC is able to leverage
its political and branding
capital for future new
investments and
fundraising strategies.

Encourage Economic Business Development
2014/2015 Baseline

2016 Mileposts

2016 Funding Needs

Where wewant to be in2020

•Work with
communities to find
opportunities for trail
and preserve-related
retail uses.
•Help neighboring
communities use the
forest preserves to
attract visitors and
create markets.
•Collaborative projects,
such as promoting
native landscaping on
corporate campuses.
•Anticipate how local

•Consider expanding
concession and other
business opportunities
including farmers’
markets, coffee shops,
bike rentals, canoe and
kayak facilities or
outdoor outfitters.
•Connect FPCC users to
local hotels, B&Bs,
restaurants and retreat
facilities nearby (and
vice versa).
•Establish partnerships
with local chambers of

•New staff focused on
marketing
•Budget for marketing
staff
•Cost of new marketing
staff and budget TBD

•FPCC users are happy
with being exposed to,
or have access to, other
amenities, concessions,
and tourism
opportunities (1) the
Forest Preserves has
marketed, (2) that are
near the Forest
Preserves, or (3) are at
the Forest Preserves.
•IL/Cook County/CW
area visitors are
exposed to FPCC via
hotels, restaurants, etc…

8

 economic development
needs relate to nature
conservation goals.

commerce, tourism
bureaus and community
organizations.

•Businesses
locate/relocate to be
near FPCC/FPCC users.

Marketing Campaign
2014/2015 Baseline

2016 Mileposts

2016 Funding Needs

•Capitalize on shared
marketing opportunities
with the Garden and
Zoo.
•Creatively tie the
preserves to tourism
opportunities.
•Package visitor
opportunities with
cultural and dining
possibilities and a robust
tour program.
•Track and publicize
increased local
investment and tax
revenues from these
new preserve-related
businesses.

•Visitors to the CBG &
the CBG will receive new
marketing related
information/
communications about
the FPCC.
•FPCC will work with
surrounding businesses,
neighborhoods, and
elected officials to
connect to FPCC users
and FPCC amenities.

9

•Additional Staff
focused on
Communications
•Increased budget for
communications
•Outside
Agency/Consultant

Where wewant to be in2020
•The FPCC will be able
to reach new users,
build support
throughout the County
for future new
investments, and
promote its economic
value in support of the
implementation of the
NCCP.

 Attachment 2

Forest Preserves of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Council 5 Year Plan Review Committee
Minutes for August 7, 2015

The meeting was called to order at 9 am. The following Council members and others
participated in the meeting:
Conservation & Policy Council Review Cmte
Wendy Paulson
Mark Templeton (by phone)
Michael DeSantiago
Peter Ellis (by phone)

FPCC Staff & Others
Arnold Randall
Cathy Geraghty
Eileen Figel
Emily Harris
Lenore Beyer-Clow
Troy Alim

The following issues were discussed:
Council’s obligations to report – these will be the focus of the Sept. Council meeting:




Annual report to the President – this will be in the form of a brief summary memo summarizing
where we are, how we got here, and where we are going. The report will highlight key aspects
of the strategic plan and budget recommendations.
Strategic operating plan.
Budget recommendation.

Review of draft 5 year strategic plan. Emily Harris presented an overview of the draft 5 year
strategic plan. The review committee offered the following suggestions:
Document Overview. There was consensus that:


The strategic plan has three purposes:
1. Connect the broad long-term goals of the Next Century Conservation Plan to
operations of the District
2. Set priorities
3. Serve as an internal and external communications and management tool
about how the NCCP is being implemented



The primary elements of the NCCP vision are mutually dependent and the four goals are
all in service of these priorities which include:

10

 o Restoration (30,000 acres high quality for ecological health)
o Expansion (grow Preserves to 90,000 acres)
o Public Engagement (welcoming preserves, iconic for Chicago region,
users/community of support reflecting diversity of Cook County)
Proposed Revisions. The current document moves in the right direction with the following
changes:


Add an introduction to: (i) Explain the purpose of the strategic plan and how it ties to
the NCCP, (ii) summarize top priorities including building partnerships, changing culture,
improving internal and external communications, etc., and (iii) highlight our approach to
scaling up, increasing resources, and other challenges. These three elements should also
be carried through to the introduction to each goal as appropriate



There are many good programs and projects which address priority goals; the challenge
is scaling these up to create large scale impact. The plan should be explicit about
strategies to validate successful programs and/or design new pilot programs and
evaluate the potential for replication and scaling up. These pilots/validation efforts will
ultimately surface the metrics for evaluating the success of the plan, especially in terms
of the People goal which is harder to measure.



Be explicit about any actions omitted from 5 year strategy (such as local food
production).



Add details explaining how we will get from 2016 mileposts to 2020 outcomes (e.g.
identify additional mileposts along the way.) The current draft is inconsistent.



Make explicit whether resource needs are for the District or for Partner organizations.
Clarify throughout throughout how the district can “set the table for others” to be
effective partners in accomplishing the goals, recognizing that this level of partner
engagement requires an investment of staff time by the District

Detailed recommendations.


Final design: Provide a map of the entire forest preserves system in the final document.
Provide working maps for the council detailing key programs and proposals (such as the
7000 acres currently under restoration, 3000 to 5000 acres which are a top priority for
restoration, etc.)



Nature Goal:
o Metrics seem fairly explicit in terms of acres but more clarity needed about
process vs. results
o How do metrics for hours translate to restoration goal? Is there a way to
monetize these as in-kind hours toward the ultimate cost of restoration to
demonstrate what is being contributed?
o Include a communication focus including continuing and expanding efforts to
communicate more effectively to those already engaged
11

 

People goal:
o Metric is harder to achieve – theory is that positive experience will translate to
engagement. Evaluation should test/validate this
o Be explicit that a goal is to reflect the diversity of Cook County and demonstrate
how existing and pilot programs are increasing that engagement
o Include engagement of business community (civic leadership) examining things
like how Corporate work days translate to ambassadors for the Preserves
o Consider new opportunities to partner with Chicago Public Schools in ways that
can lead to much larger scale participation of diverse urban audience. Difficult
to achieve, but consider a pilot designed to be scaled

Review of draft 2016 budget recommendations. Eileen Figel and Troy Alim presented a
framework for the 2016 budget recommendations. The Review committee agreed that the
entire district budget should be reflected in the analysis to enable a conversation about
costs/benefits and tradeoffs of both new and “legacy” programs. This conversation may be
limited during this first year, but could become more in-depth in future years.
Determining how to count partner investment is tricky. It is important to be explicit about the
relationship to Plan priorities – e.g. restoration investment that is toward the priority sites
identified by the District’s natural and cultural resources master plan.
Next Steps. The committee asked to proceed as follows:
1. Committee members will send to Eileen questions or suggestions they have regarding any
aspects of the draft 5 year plan.
2. Eileen and Cathy will review and respond to questions.
3. Staff will update the draft plan, add an introduction and prepare budget recommendations and
distribute the updated documents to the review committee. Staff will offer various group or
individual phone calls to get feedback from the review committee.
4. Eileen will incorporate feedback and forward a final draft to the full council one week prior to
the September 10 council meeting.
5. The Council will be asked to approve the 5-year plan with proposed changes and authorize the
review committee to approve a final document (including designed format) for presentation to
the President and Board of Commissioners. We will utilize the same process for annual report
and budget recommendation.

12

 