Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila,
Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia
M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of Finance
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner Patrick D.Thompson, President Kathleen
Therese Meany
Thursday, October 2, 2014

9:30 AM

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

Call Meeting to Order
President Kathleen Therese Meany presiding, called the meeting to order at 9:30
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

7-

Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K.
Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; and Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

2-

Michael A. Alvarez; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Board Room

 Public Hearing

1

Meeting Minutes

October 2, 2014

14-1134
Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will
hold a public hearing at 9:30 a.m. on the 2nd day of October, 2014, in the
Board Room at the Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public
comments on the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to
issue not to exceed $500,000,000 General Obligation Capital Improvement
Bonds of the District to provide funds required for the replacing, remodeling,
completing, altering, constructing and enlarging of sewage treatment works,
administrative buildings, water quality improvement projects, or flood control
facilities, and additions therefor, including, but not limited to, the construction of
pumping stations, tunnels, conduits, intercepting sewers and outlet sewers,
together with the equipment,
including
air
pollution
equipment,
and
appurtenances thereto, to acquire property, real, personal or mixed, necessary
for said purposes, and for costs and expenses for the acquisition of the sites
and rights-of-way necessary thereto, and for engineering expenses for
designing and supervising the construction of such works and other related
and incidental expenses.
By order of Kathleen Therese Meany, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago.
Dated the 22nd day of September, 2014.
/s/Jacqueline Torres
Clerk, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Kari K. Steele, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

The call of the meeting stated above and the foregoing agenda item is
hereby approved.
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

2

14-1154

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue
General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds in an amount not to exceed
$500,000,000
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Debra Shore, that this Report be
Published and Filed. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Aye:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

1-

Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

October 2, 2014

Open Discussion
Catherine A. O'Connor, Director of Engineering, presented a report to the Board on the
District's intention to issue General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds

Adjournment
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Kari K. Steele, that this Public
Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by unanimous acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays
/s/Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this October 2, 2014, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
October 2, 2014

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 