Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice
Tuesday, July 22, 2014

11:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
The recessed Public Hearing meeting of the Criminal Justice Committee of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County held on Tuesday, June 18, 2013 will reconvene on Tuesday, July 22, 2014 at the hour of
11:15 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to
consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance
of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time
for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes;
the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall notuse vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is
germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

323681

14-3726
CREATION OF A COOK COUNTY TASKFORCE TO EVALUATE THE FEASIBILITY
OF ESTABLISHING A COUNTYWIDE FIREARM REGISTRATION SYSTEM AND A
REFERENCE BALLISTICS IMAGING DATABASE (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.
CREATION OF A COOK COUNTY TASKFORCE TO EVALUATE THE
FEASIBILITY OF ESTABLISHING A COUNTYWIDE FIREARM
REGISTRATION SYSTEM AND A
REFERENCE BALLISTICS IMAGING DATABASE
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as defined in Article
VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and

 WHEREAS, Cook County has an ongoing responsibility to protect the health, welfare and
safety of its residents; and
WHEREAS, the fight against violent crime is one of the most important law enforcement
initiatives of our day. And although much progress has been made in reducing the level of
violent crime there is much more that can and must be done; and
WHEREAS, from Newtown, Connecticut to Chicago to Boston to the White House,
Federal, State and local law enforcement are now engaged in a national debate to find more
effective and efficient ways of addressing gun violence; and
WHEREAS, forensic science has long played a key role in the detection and solution of
crimes. The science of ballistics, in particular, has been an important component in
addressing violent crimes, which are often committed with firearms; and
WHEREAS, the general principle behind ballistic imaging technology is that each firearm
imparts markings, unique to that firearm, on the shell casing and projectile of expended
ammunition. Ballistic imaging technology was first employed by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) in the early
1990s. Later the collaboration between the FBI and ATF resulted in a unified system called
the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network which specializes in ballistic imaging
of crime-scene data; and
WHEREAS, interest by states to evaluate the desirability and feasibility of establishing a
reference databases of projectiles/cartridge cases associated with firearms sold by dealers
within their jurisdiction prompted the Office of Justice Programs, National Institute of
Justice and the Department of Justice to commission the Center for Criminal Justice
Technology (CCJT) to develop a computer-based impact analysis model and handbook to
assist state legislators and law enforcement officials in establishing and operating a
Reference Ballistic Imaging Database (RBID) that meets national standards; and
WHEREAS, the creation of a statewide RBID system would call for all test-fired shell
casings and projectiles be provided to the state police at the time of sale for all new or
refurbished guns. Once the exemplars are imaged and archived, the images will be stored in
an image database, along with such information as serial number, gun model, and vendor;
and
WHEREAS, shell casings or bullets that are recovered from crime scenes may be imaged
and searched against the RBID. A hit will identify the serial number and type of firearm that
fired the ammunition recovered at the crime scene. This information, in turn, can be used in
conjunction with the state’s permit or registration database to determine the original legal
owner of the firearm. Law enforcement authorities will then use this information as a lead to
help determine the perpetrator(s) of the crime being investigated. Effectively, this approach
permits the conduct of a gun trace without having recovered a firearm. In the case of a gun
that has been recovered from a crime scene and whose serial number has been obliterated,
law enforcement officials can test-fire the gun, image the shell casing and/or projectile, and
then search the RBID to determine such information as the gun make, model, serial number,
and vendor.

Page 2 of 20

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners create a taskforce to evaluate the feasibility of establishing a
countywide firearms registration system and a reference ballistics imaging database.
*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

14-3727
323682

INTENSIVE STUDENT EDUCATION AND FAMILY SUPPORT CENTERS
(PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean
Collins, County Commissioner.
INTENSIVE STUDENT EDUCATION AND FAMILY SUPPORT CENTERS
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as defined in Article
VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, it is a universal concept that family and community issues impact educational
success and that when social and economic supports are not available to assist children and
their families to buffer the consequences of poverty and other problems then no amount of
school reform will change the educational success of the abovementioned population; and
WHEREAS, just as important is the data, which has historically been the same, showing
the correlation between education and self-worth, decision making, crime, unemployment,
homelessness, incarceration and health; and
WHEREAS, it has been nationally accepted and proven that early identification and
intervention programs have better results for behavior modification problems than to wait
until children get into more serious problems at a later age; and
WHEREAS, the school system affords the greatest opportunity for early identification of
children who are experiencing academic and/or social difficulties in their homes and/or at
school; and
WHEREAS, children of working parents or guardians who are expelled from school for
extended periods of time without supervision are prime targets for gang recruitment and
other criminal activities; and
WHEREAS, the concept behind the centers is to take a holistic approach to addressing
problems by linking home, school and community to create a more comprehensive,
integrated system of school-based student and family support services.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners recognizes the potential for the use of intensive student education
and family support centers to address crime reduction and family and community stability;
and

Page 3 of 20

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners extend an open invitation to the Illinois State Board of Education, Illinois P20 Council, City of Chicago, Chicago Board of Education and community stakeholders to
discuss more effective ways to better serve the needs of children from families who are at
risk of academic and/or social economic failure and the creation of a lead exploratory
committee to examine the use of these centers; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the exploratory committee examines the feasibility
of establishing intensive student education and family support centers that:





Serve students at risk of academic failure and behavioral problems; and
Are located in or near schools in which twenty percent (20%) or more of
the student body are eligible for free or reduced-priced school meals; and
Promote identification and coordination of new and existing funding and
resource pools; and
Include, but not limited to, the following core components:
a.
Afford students who exhibit behavioral problems alternatives to
suspension except for those who commit crimes that would
constitute a felony if they were adults; and
b.
Afford opportunities for early identification and intervention for
students who are at risk for academic failure and behavioral
problems; and
c.
Promote a holistic approach when addressing students problems
including family’s critical needs that impact the students ability to
succeed academically and socially; and
d.
Minimize the need for new funds by funding collaborations with
federal, state and local units of government, utilizing professionals
who qualify for government and private reimbursement, establish
agreements with colleges and universities with internships and
other programs; and
e.
Provide safe havens for children who are forced to live in hostile
home environments through establishing temporary housing
campus like settings; and
f.
Academic and social economic success; and
g.
A safe, stimulating, learning environment; and
h.
Behavior modification; and
i.
Individualized service plans for students in crisis, to be
administered by professionals who qualify for third party
reimbursement; and
j.
Reducing school expulsions to only those who commit crimes that
would constitute a felony; and
k.
Child, family and community advocacy programs; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Exploratory Committee issue a written report of
its findings within six months from the date of its’ creation; and

Page 4 of 20

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the
Illinois State Board of Education, Illinois P-20 Council, City of Chicago, Chicago Board of
Education and selected community stakeholders in hopes of collectively finding solutions to
minimize barriers to education.
*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

14-3729
323683

CREATING AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL TASKFORCE TO REDUCE CRIME
COMMITTED BY PERSONS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS AND/OR SUBSTANCE
ABUSE (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.
CREATING AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL TASKFORCE
TO REDUCE CRIME COMMITTED BY PERSONS WITH
MENTAL ILLNESS AND/OR SUBSTANCE ABUSE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as defined in
Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and
affairs; and
WHEREAS, the state of Illinois has primary responsibility for individuals with
mental illness and drug addiction it has imposed upon Cook County tax payers to
shoulder the entire financial burden; and
WHEREAS, the closing of the Illinois state mental institutions coupled with
declining resources for treatment at the local level, are the driving influences for the
increase in the homeless population, the crime rate, and overcrowding at Cook
County Jail; and
WHEREAS, according to the latest law enforcement data approximately 65% of
homicides are committed by individuals with mental illness and/or drug addicted;
and
WHEREAS, Cook County has experienced a drastic increase in gun crimes
resulting in injuring and killing of innocent babies, youth and adult bystanders,
which have drawn attention throughout the country and abroad; and
WHEREAS, the release of thousands of ex-offenders and returning veterans who
have exhausted all legal means to supply their basic needs create fertile ground for
expanding violent subculture; and
WHEREAS, gangs and other criminal elements have formed a culture of violence
and retaliation which have begun to dominate economically distressed communities
with fear, human trafficking and economic exploitation.

Page 5 of 20

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of
Commissioners create an intergovernmental taskforce to reduce crime committed by
persons with mental illness and/or substance abuse; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the task force be represented of federal, state,
county, local government and community stakeholders. The purpose of the task
force is twofold; (1) to develop a collaborative system of services to facilitate our
crime reduction efforts and (2) to provide more humane services for homeless
individuals with mental illness, drug addicted, jobless veterans and ex-offenders
who have exhausted all legal means for supporting their critical human needs; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the taskforce should be comprised of 21
members selected by the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.
8.

9.

Two (2) appointed by the County Board President; and
Two (2) appointed by Cook County Hospital Systems Board; and
Two (2) appointed by the Governor or the General Assembly: from health
& human services; and
Three (3) appointed by the Federal Department: one from Health & Human
Services, one from HUD and one from the department of Veterans Affairs;
and
Three (3) appointed by the Mayor of Chicago: one from Department of
Human Service, two from Law enforcement; and
Two (2) appointed by Cook County Sheriff; and
One (1) appointed by Suburban Mayors Association: one appointed by
Suburban 708 Mental Health Board; and
Two (2) appointed by Cook County Circuit Court: one from mental health
court and one from drug court; and

10.
11.

Three (3) appointed by Community Mental Health Care Providers
Association; and
One (1) Clinical Psychologist; and
One (1) appointed by Hospital Association; and

12.

One (1) appointed by the Coalition of the Homeless; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the duties of the taskforce shall include but
not be limited to the following:
1.

2.
3.
4.

Determine the number of homeless individuals with mental illness, drug
addicted, veterans and ex-offenders who have no legal means to supply
their basic human needs; and
The number of aforementioned population who have committed serious
crimes; and
Establish a system of treatment services to respond to their essential human
needs in accordance with federal, state and local laws; and
Develop a funding consolidation plan that will support a holistic
individualized service plan that can be funded by different service providers
who are funded and responsible for the various services needs outlined in

Page 6 of 20

 5.

6.

7.

the individual plan; and
Conduct meetings with local police and community service providers to
gain first hand knowledge as to the problems and needs of the
aforementioned population in order that the service plan will be targeted to
respond to their specific needs; and
Contract for professional and technical support with Cook County Board
approval for staff and other technical and professional services that’s
essential to fulfill the task force responsibilities, to the extent possible
utilize existing qualified county task forces and volunteers; and
Within ninety days provide a progress report to the Cook County Board;
and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the specific action plan shall include, but not
be limited to the following:
1.

2.

3.
4.
5.

6.
7.
8.

Access the number and quality of service providers in the targeted areas.
Conduct individual and group meetings to gather firsthand knowledge and
information; and
Identify specific services and needs of returning homeless veterans.
Conduct meetings with US Department of Veteran Affairs and local veteran
centers, and organizations; and
Identify current and past Government funding sources and dollars spent on
service needs over the last several years in the targeted areas; and
Conduct a feasibility review of all government special use funds specific to
Human Services including grant funds for the target population; and
Establish a Cook County Housing Trust Fund in collaboration with the state
housing trust fund, Chicago Housing program, US, HUD, US Department
of Veterans Affairs, and the Cook County Homes Program which could be
administrated under Cook County Land Bank Authority to ensure their low
income housing goals; and
Establish rules for spending priorities from money saved from crime
reduction in Cook County; and
To lobby the state Governor and legislators to revisit mandatory sentencing
laws; and
Expand Crisis Intervention Teams to all police districts in the targeted
areas; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all options are explored to establish
coordinated funding pools made of stakeholders who target the needs of the family,
including but not limited to the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Employ professionals who qualify for federal reimbursement for health
services including psychological and emotional problems; and
Work with universities schools of social work to utilize their students who
need to meet their practical work experience requirements; and
Tuition reimbursement programs for students who agree to work for the
county for a specified time and in high crime areas; and
Utilize dollars saved by diverting individuals suffering from mental illness
and /or drug addiction from the Cook County jails and 1115 waiver; and
Consider utilizing the new federal law that allows Counties to establish 708
mental health boards; and
Employ clinical social workers and legal advisors to assist law enforcement

Page 7 of 20

 7.

with domestic violence crisis involving children and families. Funding pool
established in collaboration with Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services and mental healthcare reimbursement for clinical social
workers; and
Establish a shared funding pool comprised of:
a.
Government and private funds designated for crime prevention and
intervention; and
b.
Health and Human Services at all levels of government; and
c.
Housing Funds at all levels of government; and
d.
Job training workforce investment funds; and
e.
Special grants; and
f.
Redirecting a percentage of tax levy for public safety; and
g.
Shifting funds from programs inside prisons and jail to develop
services in the communities.

*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.
14-3731
323684

COOK COUNTY JAIL DIVERSION PROGRAM FOR NON VIOLENT MENTALLY
ILL AND/OR SUBSTANCE ABUSE DETAINEES OR ARRESTEES (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Toni
Preckwinkle, President, Earlean Collins, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, John A. Fritchey,
Bridget Gainer, Jesus G. Garcia, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Stanley
Moore, Joan P. Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Timothy O. Schneider, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah
Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.
COOK COUNTY JAIL DIVERSION PROGRAM FOR
NON VIOLENT MENTALLY ILL AND/OR
SUBSTANCE ABUSE DETAINEES OR ARRESTEES

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article IV Jail Diversion Program, Division 2 Program Established, Sections
46-201 through 46-207, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 46-201.

Preamble

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as defined in Article
VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has an ongoing responsibility for protecting the health and
safety of its residents and remains committed to public service that is efficient, equitable
and accountable; and
WHEREAS, approximately 20% of the jail population is diagnosed with mental illness and
if coupled with the population suffering with substance abuse the number increases to
approximately 60%; and

Page 8 of 20

 WHEREAS, for individuals with mental illness and substance abuse who are diverted from
incarceration Cook County saves an estimated $2,000.00 per month by avoiding the cost of
prosecution and court expenses not including the cost of healthcare. More importantly, it
has been well documented that a more efficient use of criminal justice dollars is to allocate
resources to diverting non-violent mentally ill and substance abuse detainees or arrestee
from incarceration and into holistic community based treatment programs; and
WHEREAS, some diversionary methods currently employed are among the most
successful; (1) pre-booking; diversion at the first line of contact by the arresting officer, (2)
post-booking; diversion at the State’s Attorneys level and (3) the mental health and drug
courts; and
WHEREAS, the establishment of a Cook County Jail Diversion Program, in partnership
with the State of Illinois, local law enforcement, community-based mental health and social
service providers, will reduce Cook County’s jail population and improve the quality of life
for the aforementioned population.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the President and the Cook County Board
of Commissioners to amend the Cook County Jail Diversion Program for Non-Violent
Mentally Ill and/or Substance Abuse Detainee or arrestee.
Sec. 46-202.

Short Title.

This Ordinance shall be cited and known as the “Cook County Jail Diversion
Program for Non-Violent Mentally Ill and/or Substance Abuse Detainees or Arrestees”.
Sec. 46-201.

Purpose.

Sec. 46-203.

Purpose.

The purposes of the County Jail Diversion Program are to:
(1)

Improve public safety and reduce overcrowding at the County jail by
establishing partnerships and cooperative working relationships between
state, federal and local units of government and community based service
providers for the housing, and treatment and case management of the
mentally ill population non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse
detainees or arrestees in the Cook County.

(2)

Provide mentally ill and substance abuse offenders non-violent mentally ill
and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees with improved access to the
appropriate assessment and treatment services.

(3)

Reduce rates of recidivism among mentally ill and substance abuse
offenders non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or
arrestees.

(4)

Reduce the jail population in the County.

Page 9 of 20

 (5)

Assist in maintaining compliance with the Federal consent decree on jail
overcrowding.

(6)

Afford equal access to all people, without regard to race, color, sex, age,
religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital
status, parental status, military discharge status, source of income, housing,
or any other protected categoryies established by law, to alternatives to
incarceration.

(7)

Improve positive relationships between target population citizens and law
enforcement officers.

(8)

Ease the financial burden on County taxpayers for the cost of treatment for
the aforementioned population in the County correctional system.

Sec. 46-204.

Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
County means the County of Cook.
Appropriate Authorities means the Circuit Court of Cook County, the State’s
Attorney of Cook County, the Sheriff of Cook County, the Public Defender of Cook County
and local law enforcement.
Case Management means those services which will assist individuals in gaining
access to needed social, educational, medical, treatment and other services. (20 ILCS 301/110. Co-occurring Substance Abuse Disorder means an individual with mental illness and
substance abuse (M.I.S.A.).
Crisis Intervention means to safely intervene with people in crisis in order to
stabilize a crisis situation while minimizing the risk of harm to the individual and all
persons involved.
Diversion Plan means an individualized community based treatment and supportive
service plan as an alternative to incarceration with a focus on minimizing repeat unlawful
conduct.
Felony means an offense for which a sentence to death or to a term of imprisonment
in a penitentiary for one year or more is provided. (720 ILCS 5/2-7).
Class 4 Felony means an offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment of
1 to 3 years. (730 ILCS 5/5-8-7).
Mental Health Service Provider means Mental Health Service Providers with
expertise in providing comprehensive psychological, emotional and/or psychiatric services,
in accordance with the Illinois Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Code, 405
ILCS 5/1 et seq., and consistent with standards adopted by recognized professional mental
health service provider associations including the Illinois Psychological Association.

Page 10 of 20

 Mental illness means a mental or emotional disorder that substantially impairs a
person's thought, perception of reality, emotional process, judgment, behavior, or ability to
cope with the ordinary demands of life, but does not include a developmental disability,
dementia or Alzheimer's disease absent psychosis, a substance abuse disorder, or an
abnormality manifested only by repeated criminal or otherwise antisocial conduct. (405)
ILCS 5/1-129.
Misdemeanors means any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment,
other than to a penitentiary, for less than one year may be imposed. (720 ILCS 5/2-11).
Class A misdemeanor means an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment shall
be a determinate sentence of less than one year. (730 ILCS 5-4.5-55(a).
Class B misdemeanor means an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment shall
be a determinate sentence of not more than 6 months. (730 ILCS 5-4.5-60 (a).
Class C misdemeanor means an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment of
not more than 30 days. (730 ILCS 5-4.5-65 (a).
Post Booking Diversion means diversion agreed to by the States Attorney’s Office
after the arrest of a Detainee as an alternative to prosecution.
Pre-Booking Diversion means diversion agreed to by local law enforcement
authorities prior to any formal charges being filed against a detainee.
Substance Abuse Service Providers means individuals in local organizations and
health facilities with expertise in providing comprehensive assessments and treatment
services in accordance with the Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependence Act, 20
ILCS 301/1 et seq., as administered by the Illinois Department of Human Services, formerly
known as the Illinois Department of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse.
Target Population mean non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainee or
arrestee, with a primary focus on offenders from areas with the highest crime rates.
Third Party Health Coverage means health coverage provided by public or private
reimbursement insurance, including but not limited to 1115 Waiver, Medicaid or Medicare.
Sec. 46-2025.

Scope.

The County Board calls upon persons responsible for the administration of the
criminal justice system with the in Cook County, and the officials and community service
providers responsible for mental health services in the State of Illinois to work together to
develop improved and expanded diversion programs for person suffering from non-violent
mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees. mental illness and substance
abuse disorder in order to determine how such programs might be expanded to promote
treatment as an alternative to incarceration on a broader scale within the County. Successful
jail diversion programs must incorporate:

Page 11 of 20

 (1)

Assessments. Detainees who are considered for diversion must agree to
undergo an individualized mental health and physical evaluation and
assessment and to accept referrals for appropriate services including
housing and case management. The program must be designed to reduce
the number of non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse arrestees or
mentally ill and substance abuse detainees entering into the County jail and
afford greater opportunities for crisis intervention and essential supportive
services.

(2)

Provider Participating service standards providers. To the extent possible,
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Disorder In addition to meeting the
qualifications established by State and Federal laws for the treatment of
mental health and substance abuse disorder Service Providers who
participate in the jail diversion program shall be those who are already
receiving funds from Federal, State, County, and/or local units of
governments for Mental Health and Substance Abuse Disorder services.
All County funding for such services, if any, shall be performance based
and any renewal shall be contingent upon the quality and quantity of service
rendered the previous year. Each participating diverted detainee or arrestee
must have an individualized service plan which shall be developed by a
licensed professional in the State in the field of mental health and substance
abuse disorder. This plan must be in collaboration with the appropriate law
enforcement officials and the criminal justice system when applicable. The
treatment plan shall be consistent with the Illinois Mental Health and
Developmental Disabilities Code, 405 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and in accordance
with the Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependency Act, 20 ILCS
301/1 et seq., standards adopted by recognized professional mental health
and substance abuse service provider associations including the Illinois
Psychological Association, and the Illinois Department of Human Services.

(3)

Regional cCrisis resources for law enforcement A regional 24-hour crisis
intervention resource center, operated by a lead agency, shall be established
to be utilized by local law enforcement when there is no available service in
the impacted area. The crisis center shall assist local law enforcement,
including any law enforcement crisis intervention teams, when called upon
to stabilize a crisis situation involving a mentally ill and substance abuse
offender. Intervention Center. A 24-hour crisis intervention resource
center, equipped with social workers will be established and in each police
district within the targeted areas to assist with resources for stabilizing and
follow-up case management as needed. The crisis center and the crisis
intervention team shall be subject to funding by the intergovernmental
agreement established in accordance with provisions set forth in Division 3
of this article.

(4)

Third party health care reimbursement sources. In those cases where a
diverted detainee does not have a source of third party health coverage, the
Cook County Health and Hospital System Bureau of Health Services shall
make every concerted effort to assist the diverted detainee in making
application for any third party health care reimbursement.

Page 12 of 20

 Sec. 46-2036.

Target population.

The County's Jail Diversion Program shall focus on the following categories nonviolent mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees from the targeted areas. of
detainees with a primary focus on offenders within the jurisdiction of agreed upon police
districts within the City of Chicago and the Village of Maywood, the jurisdiction of the
Juvenile Court and misdemeanor courts of the District 4, Maywood Courthouse of the
Circuit Court of Cook County and the jurisdiction of the Mental Health Court located at the
Criminal Court Building in the City of Chicago:
(1)

Mentally ill detainees and substance abuse detained for Class A, B and C
misdemeanors which are nonviolent.

(2)

Mentally ill detainees and substance abuse detained for nonviolent Class 4
felony offenses.

Sec. 46-2047.

Eligibility.

(1)

Non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse offender who commits a
Class A, B and C misdemeanor is qualified for pre-booking diversion where
a plea of guilty is not required.

(2)

Non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse offender who commits a
non-violent Class 4 felony offense.

For pre-booking jail diversion there is no mandatory requirement that a diverted
detainee first plead guilty to an offense prior to participating in a diversion program.
Sec. 46-2058.

Types of jail diversion programs.

(a)
This Jail Diversion Program is designed to strengthen existing jail
diversion efforts which are currently used by some local law enforcement officials such as
station adjustments, peer juries, special courts, and other alternatives to incarceration.
(b)
This Jail Diversion Program will include four types of diversion, each of
which shall be subject to the approval of the appropriate authorities and have agreed-upon
conditions by all parties involved, the agreement shall be tailored to particular
circumstances, for which diverted detainees shall be held accountable. The four categories
of diversion are as follows:
(1)

Pre-booking diversion. Pre-booking jail diversion does not mandate or
require that an detainee or arrestee plea guilty to an offense prior to
participation in a diversion program. Pre-booking diversion may be sought
by local law enforcement for non-violent mentally ill and/or substance
abuse detainees or arrestees mentally ill detainees and substance abuse,
booked for Class B and C misdemeanors, as often as possible. The arresting
officer shall be the first line of contact and shall be encouraged to take the
following basic steps prior to any official charges for minor and/or nuisance
crimes:

Page 13 of 20

 a.

Attempt to resolve any crisis without harm to the suspect, general
public, or law enforcement officials.

b.

Refer directly to a hospital or treatment center when appropriate.

c.

Contact parent or guardian if individual with mental illness
mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainee is under 17.

d.

Evaluate the situation and determine if the suspect is potentially
divertible.

e.

Determine if detainee or arrestee can be sent to his or her residence
under conditions agreed upon by law enforcement, detainee
offender, parent(s) or guardian, and the victim of the crime.

f.

Contact a community based mental health and substance abuse
service provider when appropriate for proper assessment and
referral for services.

g.

If no community based mental health and substance abuse service
provider is available contact the 24-hour regional crisis center for
crisis intervention.

h.

In cases where the detainee or arrestee has caused injury to a person
or damage to one's property, the appropriate authorities shall be
encourage to explore all efforts for restitution as a condition of prebooking diversion.

i.

Complete a detailed incident report.

(2)

Post-booking diversion. This category of diversion may be sought by the
State's Attorney for non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse
detainees who are detained for crimes that constitute Class A misdemeanors
and Class 4 felonies and which are nonviolent. The State's Attorney may
seek a pre-arraignment investigation which may include, but need not be
limited to, assessment by a mental health and substance abuse service
provider to determine whether the suspect is eligible for diversion. If a
diversion plan is agreed upon by all parties involved, it may include a
requirement that the diverted detainee adhere to an individualized treatment
and service plan developed by an appropriate clinician, provision for
restitution with respect to injuries or property damage caused by the
diverted detainee and may identify a case manager who shall monitor the
diverted detainee's compliance with the diversion plan and report on such
compliance as required in the diversion plan.

(3)

Pre-trial diversion to special courts. This level shall continue to emphasize
proper assessment and speedy trials for those detainees who have been
diagnosed by the appropriate clinicians as being mentally ill having a
mental illness or with substance abuse disorders. If a detainee has been
diagnosed as being mentally ill having a mental illness or diagnosed with
substance abuse disorders and is held over for trial the detainee shall have

Page 14 of 20

 immediate access to the appropriate treatment services. The case should be
referred to the appropriate special courts for a speedy trial. This category of
diversion is subject to the approval of the court.
(4)

(5)
Sec. 46-2069.

Post-adjudication diversion.
a.

This category of diversion is for persons adjudicated guilty of an
offense by the courts. In cases where a person has also been found,
by a licensed clinician, as being mentally ill having a mental illness
and suffering with substance abuse and it has been agreed upon on
by the courts that a diversion plan may be developed, that person
shall be eligible for immediate treatment.

b.

This category of diversion consists of dispositions in the Juvenile
Court and the misdemeanor courts within the jurisdiction of the
District 4, Maywood Courthouse of the Circuit Court of Cook
County and the Mental Health Court. In appropriate cases as
ordered by the court, a diversion plan may be developed as a
condition of a defendant's probation or supervision. The court may
consider assignment of a case manager to monitor the defendant's
compliance with the diversion plan and may require notification of
the arresting law enforcement agency or other parties prior to the
defendant's release from custody or discharge from hospitalization
for mental health or substance abuse treatment.

Resumption of prosecution. Failure to comply with the diversion plan shall
subject the diverted detainee to further prosecution.
Crisis intervention training.

The intergovernmental agreement shall include provisions for shared resources for
explore funding and promotion of training opportunities for law enforcement and service
providers with respect to crisis intervention involving persons with mental illness and/or
substance abuse. which Training shall include recognition of mental illness and substance
abusers, knowledge of available local resources and the use of less than lethal force the
proper use of force.
Sec. 46-20710. Confidentiality.
The rules of confidentiality, as set forth under the Illinois Mental Health and
Developmental Disabilities Code and Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependency
Act and other applicable State, Federal and local laws, shall be adhered to.
Sec. 46-211.

Intergovernmental Agreement.

The Cook County Board President and the Board shall request that the State’s
Attorney develop an Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County Board of
Commissioners, City of Chicago, State of Illinois, Cook County Sheriff, Cook County
Circuit Court, and local units of government within the targeted areas. The agreements shall
address the following:

Page 15 of 20

 (1) The role of the State of Illinois, the County of Cook, and community 708
mental health boards in regards to funding and providing services for the
target population.
(2) The feasibility of improved service coverage for diverted detainees or arrestees
through shared resources.
(3) The creation and funding of 24-hour crisis intervention centers.
(4) Standardized policies and procedures to ensure equal opportunity for all
mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees to participate in a
diversion program.
Sec. 46-212.

Funding.

Mental health and substance abuse service providers participating in the Cook
County Jail Diversion Program shall seek reimbursement for their service from third party
reimbursement sources (i.e. 1115 Waiver, KidCare, Medicare/Medicaid, and/or private
insurance entities) and when applicable may be compensated through Federal, State and
local funds; subject to the appropriation and availability from State, County and local
government.
Sec. 46-213.

Advisory Panel.

The purpose of the Advisory Panel is to establish a strong advocacy and resource
group to enhance Cook County’s effort to improve the quality of mental health and
substance abuse services in Cook County and to reduce the population of non-violent
mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees entering the Cook County criminal
justice system. The thirteen member panel shall be composed of persons with expertise in
law enforcement, criminal justice, assessment and treatment of the mentally ill and
substance abuse populations.
Sec. 46-214.

Structure.

A thirteen-member Advisory Panel is established to report to the Board of
Commissioners regarding the implementation and evaluation of the Cook County Jail
Diversion Program.
The Advisory Panel shall consist of thirteen (13) members as follows: (1) appointed
by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, (1) appointed by the Cook County
Sheriff, (2) appointed by the Cook County State’s Attorney, (1) appointed by the Cook
County Public Defender, (2) appointed by the City of Chicago Office of the Mayor, (1)
appointed by the Village of Maywood, and (5) appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners; from among the following: (1) selected the Cook County
Department of Public Health, (1) selected from University of Illinois Jane Addams School
of Social Work, (1) selected from Illinois Community Mental Health Providers Association,
and (2) selected from a consumer organizations with (1) representing mental health.
This Advisory Panel’s composition will reflect the demographics of the County as a
whole, with a majority of members selected from the target areas. The Panel shall select
officers from among its membership.

Page 16 of 20

 Sec. 46-215.

Responsibilities of Advisory Panel.

The Advisory Panel shall:
(1)

Recommend administrative policies and procedures for implementation of
the Cook County Jail Diversion Program.

(2)

Identify current local, state and federal funding resources for services to the
mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees.

(3)

Develop a feasibility study to determine the availability of essential mental
health and substance abuse services at the community level, to ensure a
successful mental health diversion program for both youth and adults.

(4)

Recommend a structure for maximizing the use of existing resources and
making them readily available to law enforcement crisis intervention
centers.

(5)

Assist in establishing a collaborative relationship between the State of
Illinois, County of Cook, local municipalities and local community based
mental health and substance abuse service providers, with emphasis on
mutual goals, shared responsibilities and resources.

(6)

Review existing training curriculum for law enforcement officials and make
recommendations for change to enhance their ability, where needed, to
identify mentally ill and substance abuse persons.

(7)

Establish criteria for measuring the outcome of the programs.

(8)

Devise a plan for minimizing cost through service integration and
coordination.

(9)

Lobby federal and state governments to improve funding resources for Jail
Diversion Program services at the local level.

(10)

Request that the County apply for funds for support staff to the Advisory
Panel.

(11)

Recommend procedures to ensure nondiscriminatory opportunities for
detainees and arrestees to participate in a diversion program.

Sec. 46-216.

Establishment of Electronic Database.

Law Enforcement, the State’s Attorney’s Office, the Courts and the Probation
Department are required to maintain a data base of information regarding persons who have
been diverted by their respective agencies in order to improve information sharing between
departments and to assist in identifying repeat offenders who may have been previously
diagnosed with a mental illness and/or substance abuse.

Page 17 of 20

 Sec. 46-217.

Police Evaluations.

Law Enforcement is encouraged to include the following criteria for evaluation of
police response to crises involving mentally ill and/or substance abuse offenders.
Evaluations of police responses should be consistently conducted on a case-by-case basis to
determine the best case practices when detaining or arresting people in crisis. Evaluation
criteria should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)

Was there any significant violence or harm done to the subject, the general
public or law enforcement officials during the process of apprehension?

(2)

Was the crisis resolved on the scene? At the police station? Or elsewhere?

(3)

Where family members alerted and included in the problem solving process
in accordance with State and Federal law, when the offender is under the
age of 17?

(4)

Was the detainee transported or referred to the appropriate service provider
when warranted?

(5)

Was the detainee formally incarcerated?

(6)

Did law enforcement take advantage of community-based resources and
were the resources readily available as well as suitable for the situation?

(7)

Was this a repeat encounter with the detainee or arrestee within a year, six
months, 90 days, or 45days, who had participated in a diversion program?

Sec. 46-218.

Performance Measurement Standards.

Performance measurement standards shall include, but not limited to, the following:
(1)

Percentage of detainees or arrestees with case managers.

(2)

Total number of detainees or arrestees seen per quarter.

(3)

Number of appointments made for detainee or arrestee and percentage of
those kept.

(4)

Percentage of detainees or arrestees with living arrangements.

(5)

The number of periodic follow-ups with detainee or arrestee.

(6)

Percentage of current and accurate detainee or arrestee records that are
available for review by any appropriate agency.

(7)

Progress reports on arrestee’s or detainee’s efforts in complying with their
individualized treatment plan.

(8)

Rate of recidivism.

Page 18 of 20

 (9)

Reduction in the jail population

(10)

Number of community-based service providers.

(11)

Percentage of detainees or arrestees in diversion programs.

(12)

Percentage of reduction in non-violent crimes.

(13)

Cost analysis

(14)

Increase stakeholder’s training regarding identifying and servicing persons
with mental illness and/or substance abuse.

Sec. 46-219.

Applicability.

As provided in Article VII, Section 6(c), of the State of Illinois Constitution of
1970, if this Ordinance conflicts with an ordinance of a municipality, the municipal’s
ordinance shall prevail within the municipality. This Ordinance shall be enforceable within
the municipal jurisdiction to the extent permitted under the statutes and constitution of the
State of Illinois and of the United States of America.
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to compel law enforcement officers,
the State’s Attorney’s Office, the Public Defender’s Office, the Circuit Court of Cook
County or any office or agency working with those offices in the administration of the
criminal justice system to take any action which is inconsistent with the judgment and
decisions of those offices or to act in a manner which is contrary to existing law. To the
extent that any provision of this Ordinance requires express statutory authorization, the
approval of any official or requires an agreement between the affected parties, this
Ordinance shall be contingent upon such statutory authorization, approval or agreement.
Sec. 46-220.

Severability.

If any article, paragraph, sentence, or clause of this Ordinance or the application
thereof to any person is for any reason deemed to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect any remaining portion, section, or part thereof or application of this
Ordinance to any person.
Sec. 46-221.

Effective Date.

(1)

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage.

(2)

Within six weeks of the passage of this Ordinance an Advisory Panel shall
be appointed and approved.

(3)

Within one year after the implementation of this Ordinance, the Advisory
Panel shall report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners regarding
the number of detainees and arrestees diverted the cost benefits to Cook
County, the effectiveness and future viability of the jail diversion program.

Page 19 of 20

 Secs. 46-20822 - 46-230. Reserved.
*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

____________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Collins
Reyes
Committee of the Whole

Page 20 of 20

 