MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
June 18, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on June 18, 2002 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory Jones and Members Ira
Rogal, Elzie Higginbottom, and Tobias Barry.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Philip Parenti, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan McDonald, James Wagner, Chief Legal Counsel Mark Ostrowski, Deputy
Chief Legal Counsel Jeannette Tamayo, and other members of the staff.
Chairman Jones convened the June 18, 2002 Regular Meeting at 9:45 A.M. in the 3 rd floor
Board Conference Room. Member Rogal moved that pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs
(1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat
Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s (June 18, 2002) agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:55 P.M.

 Approval of Minutes
Member Higginbottom moved that the Board approve the following closed session
minutes of the Illinois Gaming Board:
• Closed Session Minutes:
-

-

Regular Meeting of May 14, 2002
Special Meeting of May 17, 2002
Special Meeting of May 20, 2002
Special Meeting of May 22, 2002
Special Meeting of May 28, 2002
Special Meeting of June 3, 2002

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Rogal moved that the Board approve the following open session minutes of the
Illinois Gaming Board:
• Open Session Minutes:
-

-

Regular Meeting of May 14, 2002
Special Meeting of May 17, 2002
Special Meeting of May 20, 2002
Special Meeting of May 22, 2002
Special Meeting of May 28, 2002
Special Meeting of June 3, 2002

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Jones announced that as of July 1 st the Illinois Gaming Board would implement its
own Self-Exclusion Program for problem gamblers. Chairman Jones stated that the program
would give persons who recognize that they have a gambling problem the opportunity to
exclude themselves from all riverboat casinos in Illinois. Chairman Jones stated that the
exclusion would take place only after the person with the gambling problem completes forms
voluntarily requesting that he or she be placed on the self-exclusion list. Chairman Jones
stated that a person who is placed on the self-exclusion list would be barred from entering a
casino in Illinois for a period of five years. Chairman Jones stated that once the program

2

 begins on July 1, 2002, those seeking self-exclusion would be able to enroll in the program at
the Chicago or Springfield offices of the Illinois Gaming Board. Chairman Jones stated that
starting October 1, 2002, IGB agents would also be taking applications for self-exclusion.
Chairman Jones stated that the Illinois Department of Human Services has indicated that it
would provide a list of alcohol, substance and gambling abuse counselors who would be
available to enroll those seeking to self-exclude. Chairman Jones stated that over the next
few weeks IGB staff would meet with their colleagues from DHS to determine just how
quickly the DHS counselors could be made part of the self-exclusion program. Chairman
Jones stated that the end result of these efforts would mean that there would be 18 locations
in the State of Illinois where problem gamblers would be able to enroll in the Self-Exclusion
Program. Chairman Jones acknowledged and congratulated the various IGB staff whose
dedicated efforts have made the program possible. Chairman Jones also thanked the Illinois
Casino Gaming Association and all of the other groups who have had input and suggestions
to help make the program successful.
New Business
Member Rogal moved that the Board add "Board Policy Items" to the Agenda. Member
Rogal further moved that the discussion of the Board Policy item, rulemaking, be placed
on the public agenda for deliberation and decision. Member Rogal further moved that the
Agenda for the open session for today's meeting be amended to include "Board Policy
Items”, including rulemaking and the Self-Exclusion Policy and Program, as topic
number 7. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Administrator’s Report
Administrator Parenti added to what Chairman Jones discussed regarding the Self-Exclusion
Policy. Administrator Parenti praised Chairman Jones for his dedication to the program.
Administrator Parenti stated that the Self-Exclusion Program was Chairman Jones’ primary
focus and that the program would not have succeeded without the input and strong hand of
Chairman Gregory Jones.
Public Commentary
Susan S. Gouinlock, Legal Counsel, Illinois Casino Gaming Association, was present to
discuss Illinois casinos’ charitable efforts. Ms. Gouinlock announced that casino employees
from each of the nine member casinos are preparing for their annual Casino Employee
Helping Hand Food Drive to benefit local food pantries in each of the nine casino host
communities. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the Drive would take place from Friday, July 12 to
Friday July 26, 2002. Ms. Gouinlock stated that this would be the third annual Drive. Ms.
Gouinlock stated that last year Illinois casinos committed $35 million to charitable causes.
Ms. Gouinlock stated that the Alton Belle Casino was recently honored by the Southwestern
Illinois Chapter of the American Red Cross for its donation of $5,000.00 to the chapter’s
relief efforts following the September 11 terrorist attacks. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the

3

 Casino Queen, through its charitable foundation, recently donated $60,000 to the East St.
Louis Children’s Foundation to support the vital work of East St. Louis’ Christian Activity
Center. Ms. Gouinlock stated that last month, Harrah’s Joliet and Harrah’s Metropolis
together made a $200,000 grant to the not for profit organization, Senior Services of Central
Illinois, for construction of a new 2,000 square foot wing at the Springfield Senior Citizen’s
Center. Ms. Gouinlock stated that having already donated $500,000 to Bradley’s Centennial
Campaign, the Par-A-Dice Casino just made the second of three, $50,000 additional
donations for a scholarship endowment fund at the University. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the
Empress Casino Joliet has supported the Will-Grundy Counties Easter Seals Telethon for
seven years. Ms. Gouinlock stated that in addition to significant cash donations to the event,
the Empress provides a ballroom, hotel rooms and food for telethon staff for a week each
year, and Empress employees volunteer to construct the set and otherwise make the telethon
happen. Ms. Gouinlock stated that Hollywood Casino has been a substantial and reliable
supporter of the Quad County Urban League for eight years, providing funds for computers
and other tools to fulfill the Urban League’s mission of providing underprivileged kids in
Kane, DuPage, Kendall and Will Counties with a better chance to excel academically and to
help their families achieve self sufficiency. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the Grand Victoria
Casino in Elgin is one of the major charitable givers in the State of Illinois from any industry.
Ms. Gouinlock stated that since Grand Victoria opened in the fall of 1994, the casino has
committed over $90 million to its charitable foundation, the Grand Victoria Foundation.
Ms. Gouinlock introduced Mr. Joe Neri, Director of the Illinois Facilities Fund (IFF). Mr.
Neri was present to inform the Board of the donations that the Grand Victoria Casino
Foundation has provided for childcare in the State of Illinois. Mr. Neri stated that the Illinois
Facilities fund is a non-profit community development finance institution that provides
capital and technical assistance, including real estate development, to low-income and
special needs populations. Mr. Neri stated that the Grand Victoria Foundation has been one
of the most significant contributors of IFF, especially in the area of childcare. Mr. Neri
stated that over the past five years the Grand Victoria Foundation has made over $3 million
dollars worth of grants to the IFF. Mr. Neri stated that funds were used to serve projects
serving low-income and special needs populations. Mr. Neri stated that those projects
include two childcare centers in the Elgin community; a well-child center that provides
health services and pre-natal care to hundreds of low-income families; a community health
clinic serving families on Medicaid and the uninsured; and an educational facility that serves
developmentally disabled youth. Mr. Neri stated that this year the Grand Victoria
Foundation made a $2 million dollar grant to IFF, which would be targeted specifically for
work in childcare in the highest need communities throughout the metropolitan area.
Member Higginbottom stated that he noticed that during Ms. Gouinlock’s and Mr. Neri’s
presentation that they did not mention any efforts made in the City of Chicago or in Cook
County, which are also areas of high need. Member Higginbottom stated that because of the
large population concentration in Chicago and in Cook County, it would seem that with over
$100 million dollars in the fund that there could be more efforts in the City of Chicago and
Cook County. Ms. Gouinlock stated that the $100 million dollars is just the Grand Victoria
Foundation, it does not include the other casinos. Ms. Gouinlock stated that she is sure that
4

 there are other fine examples of the foundation donating to the Chicago area. Ms. Gouinlock
stated that she would speak with the foundation’s Director and provide that information to
the Board. Mr. Neri stated that the foundation provided a grant for the resurrection project in
developing a childcare facility in the Back of the Yards community. Ms. Gouinlock read a
list of recent donations by the Grand Victoria Foundation. The list included the Chicago
Association of Neighborhood Development, Chicago Foundation for Women, Chicago Jobs
Counsel, Chicago State University, and Chicago’s Environmental Fund.
Board Policy Items
Deputy Legal Counsel Jeannette Tamayo stated that House Bill 2381 was sent to the
Governor for signature on June 6, 2002. Ms. Tamayo stated that the Bill changes the
graduated scale for the casino taxes and also increases the admission tax. Ms. Tamayo stated
that staff would need emergency rulemaking in order to implement the changes effective July
1, 2002, assuming that the Governor signs the legislation. Ms. Tamayo stated that staff is
requesting permission to file an emergency rulemaking and permission to file the proposed
amendments with JCAR.
Member Higginbottom moved that the Board authorize the adoption of proposed rules on
an emergency basis and concurrently authorize the First Notice submission of these
rules with the Secretary of State for publishing the amendments to Board rule
3000.1071 regarding admission and wagering tax upon H.B. 2381 becoming law.
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
In regards to the Self-Exclusion Program, Ms. Tamayo stated that over the next three
months, it is more in the nature of a pilot program. Ms. Tamayo stated that staff has not had
the opportunity to test it and implement it. Ms. Tamayo stated that the program is a
consensual program, where the individual who is seeking assistance identifies that they have
a gambling problem and consents to the actions that are being taken. Ms. Tamayo stated that
the casinos are cooperating with this program because the Board has adopted a rule that
requires them to do so. Ms. Tamayo stated that there is a General Manager’s meeting
scheduled to discuss the Self-Exclusion Program more elaborately.
Owner Licensee Items
EMPRESS/ARGOSY GAMING COMPANY – PROPOSED BARGE CONSTRUCTION
UPDATE – Paul Keller, Vice President of Design, was present on behalf of Argosy Gaming
Company to update the Board on Argosy’s proposed barge project. Mr. Keller stated that
legislation was passed by the Illinois legislature to increase the marginal tax rate. Mr. Keller
stated that the tax increase was not accompanied by any offsetting rule change that would
allow Argosy to expand its revenue base by adding even a small amount of capacity. Mr.
Keller stated that the burden of the entire tax increase must come only from existing
revenues and provides nothing in the way of incentives to expand these revenues. Mr. Keller
stated that the investment that Argosy planned for nearly a year, and which it has already
5

 spent a significant amount of money on, can no longer be justified in any kind of economic
sense. Mr. Keller stated that Argosy has a duty to its shareholders, employees, and to the
State of Illinois to make fiscally prudent decisions and to employ its capital where it can be
most productive. Mr. Keller announced that it is Argosy’s decision to place its project on
hold for the time being. Mr. Keller stated that Argosy is evaluating several less ambitious
alternatives to the previous plan. Mr. Keller stated that within the next few months, Argosy
would return before the Board to inform the Board of Argosy’s decisions about how they are
going to employ capital at the Joliet property and move the property forward under the
existing circumstances.
Member Rogal asked what Argosy’s standards are for economic justification. Mr. Keller
stated that Argosy’s standards are a fair return on investment for the risk they take, which he
stated would obviously be exceeding the cost of capital. Mr. Keller stated that the cost of
capital is around 12%, and the cost of capital for a project of this magnitude would be higher.
Member Rogal asked what would the return on the investment have been for the $75 million
dollar project. Mr. Keller stated that he has no knowledge of that. Member Rogal asked Mr.
Keller to provide staff with information relating to what the return on investment would have
been for the $75 million dollar project. Mr. Keller stated that he would submit to staff
information regarding the return on investment.
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – LICENSE RENEWAL - Brenda Bauer, Vice President for
Argosy Gaming/Acting General Manager for Empress Casino, Joliet, was present on behalf
of Empress Casino to request initial consideration for license renewal. Ms. Bauer provided
the Board with a video presentation highlighting Empress Casino’s accomplishments over
the year. Ms. Bauer stated that Empress Casino would be working closely with staff over the
next month to answer any additional questions that they might have.
HARRAH’S ENTERTAINMENT, INC. – NORMAND J. MULLAN, DIRECTOR OF
INTERNAL AUDIT – KEY PERSON – Karen Wosnack, Attorney, was present on behalf of
Norman J. Mullan to request approval for Normand J. Mullan as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve Normand J. Mullan as a Key Person of Harrah’s
Entertainment, Inc. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
Suppliers Licensees
ARISTOCRAT – LICENSE RENEWAL – Kris Pribadi was present on behalf of Aristocrat
to request approval of license renewal.
Member Rogal moved that the Board approve a restricted Supplier’s license of
Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. for a term of one year expiring June 2003 and impose the
following condition:

6

 1. Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. shall file all appropriate and
required documents relevant to its license renewal in a
timely manner.
In the event that Aristocrat, Inc. fails to make an appropriate and timely request as
specified in Board Rule 3000.405 for a hearing within 5 days of delivery of the written
restriction of licensure, this action of the Board shall become the final action of the
Board restricting the Suppliers license application for one year.
Further, based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that
the Board certify and approve the following positions and persons as Key Persons of
the licensee:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Chief Executive Officer (Chief Executive Director);
Chief Operating Officer (President);
Aristocrat Leisure Limited;
Aristocrat International Proprietary Limited; and
Desmond H. Randall.

Further, Member Rogal moved that the Board approve Aristocrat Technologies, Inc. to
provide EGD’s pursuant to the requirements set out in the Board’s Adopted Rules.
Member Higginbottom seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously
by voice vote.
A.C. COIN & SLOT SERVICE COMPANY, INC. – LICENSE RENEWAL - John Janicik,
Attorney, and Tom McCormick, Vice President and General Counsel, were present on behalf
of A.C. Coin & Slot Service Company, Inc. to request license renewal.
Based on a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom
moved that the Board approve the Supplier’s license of Atlantic City Coin & Slot
Company, Inc. for a term of 4 years expiring in June 2006.
Further, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board certify and approve the following
person and position as a Key Person of the licensee:
1.
2.

Maxie R. Seelig; and
President/Director.

Further, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board approve Atlantic City Coin & Slot
Company, Inc. to provide EGD’s pursuant to the requirements set out in the Board’s
Adopted Rules. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.

7

 U.S. PLAYING CARD COMPANY – GREGORY S. SIMKO, PRESIDENT – KEY
PERSON – Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member
Higginbottom moved that the Board approve Gregory S. Simko as a Key Person of U.S.
Playing Card Company. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Rogal moved that the Board
approve 127 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 330 applications for
an Occupational License Level 3.
Further, Member Rogal moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue Notices of
Denial to the following seven applicants for Level 2 and Level 3 licenses, each of whom
previously received notice that staff intended to recommend denial and either did not
respond or provide additional information to rebut that recommendation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Antoine Blasingame;
Nicholas Davila;
Onie R. Ramsay;
John J. Steelman;
Troy Lockridge;
Thomas Buechel; and
Donald Dickinson.

Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Disciplinary Complaints
IN RE THE DISCIPLINARY COMPLAINT ACTION OF JUAN A. VILLEGAS - Based on
a review of staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Higginbottom moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Juan A. Villegas, a Level 3
Occupational Licensee, for fraudulently crediting a Grand Victoria casino patron’s
account and engaging in conduct that would discredit or tend to discredit the Illinois
gaming industry in violation of the Board's Act and Adopted Rules.
Further, Member Higginbottom moved that the Board revoke Mr. Villegas' Occupational
License. Said action to take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of this
complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period. Member Barry
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 Administrative Hearing/ALJ Report
IN RE THE DENIAL OF THE APPLICATION OF LUN C. NG, OL-01-02 - Based on a
thorough review of the record and report of proceedings and evidence before Administrative
Law Judge Arnold in the Matter of Lun C. Ng, OL-01-02, Member Higginbottom moved that
the Board adopt and issue the proposed final order incorporating the Hearing Officer’s
Recommended Decision, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, as the Board's Final
Administrative Decision in this matter.
Member Higginbottom further moved that the Board direct the Administrator to provide
a copy of the Board’s Decision to the parties and the ALJ, and include therein a notice
to Mr. Ng of his right to appeal the Board’s Decision to the circuit court within 35 days
from the date said Decision is served. Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At 3:05 P.M. pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraph (11) and (14) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Rogal moved that the Board
retire to Closed Session to discuss the following subject matters:
1. Litigation involving Emerald Casino, Inc.;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees
Member Barry seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 4:58 P.M. Member Rogal made a motion to reconvene into Open Session. Member
Higginbottom second the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
The Board adjourned at 4:58 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

9

 