STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on May 5, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman (participated by telephone-conference from Springfield office); Charles
Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director (participated by telephone-conference from Springfield office); and staff members.
John F. Brosnan acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD APRIL14, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the April 14, 2009 meeting. Member
Sadlowski made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Anderson seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions
for the period of time from April 1 through April 30, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CB-08-016
Deborah R. McDaniel/Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 222

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge
(ALJ) Strizak's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to
review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. L-CA-08-048
Deborah R. McDaniel/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Case No. L-CA-08-049
Aaron E. Morris/County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and recommended that the Board
uphold the ALJ's decision. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the ALJ's
recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher summarized the agency's April 28 Senate budget hearing and updated the Board as to
the status of legislation that could affect the agency. The Chair and Members of the Board discussed the
pending legislation. Member Anderson made a motion to leave open session. Member Sadlowski
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Sadlowski made a
motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel issues. Member Anderson seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion,
Member Anderson made a motion to leave executive session. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion,

 and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Anderson then made a motion to return to
open session. Chairman Gallagher seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 2nd day of June, 2009.

2

 