STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on October 7, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Charles Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward E. Sadlowski, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan,
Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Sharon B. Wells acted as counsel to the Board
at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD AUGUST 12, 2008

Member Anderson made a motion for approval of the minutes of the August 12, 2008 meeting. Member
Sadlowski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Member Sadlowski asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from August 1 through September 30, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board for
review, and the Board examined and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case Nos. L-RC-06-013, L-RC-06-016, and L-RC-06-023
1.
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/Local 200, Retail,
Wholesale and Department Store Union/County of Cook

Member Sadlowski called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan discussed the issues presented by the
County's exceptions and recommended that the Board accept Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Clifford's
Recommended Decision and Order (RDO) and direct a representation election in the petitioned-for unit. The
Board Members then engaged in a lengthy discussion of the ALJ's determinations and the County's
exceptions. Member Anderson also questioned the acting general counsel to ensure that voters whose
eligibility was doubtful would be subject to challenge. At the conclusion thereof, Member Anderson moved
to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Sadlowski seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CA-08-003
National Nurses Organizing Committee/County of Cook
Member Anderson summarized the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a dismissal on July
24, 2008, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Wells reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board reject the executive director's dismissal of that portion of the charge dealing
with the request for information, and instead, issue a complaint for hearing. As to the remainder of the
charge, the acting general counsel determined that the Board had a choice of either upholding the dismissal,
or rejecting the dismissal and deferring the charge to the parties' grievance arbitration process. After a
lengthy discussion, Member Sadlowski moved to deny Charging Party's motion for oral argument, reject the
executive director's dismissal, issue a complaint for hearing on the information request portion of the charge,
and defer the remainder to arbitration. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

 VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Member Anderson noted that there was no fiscal report and nothing to report regarding legislative matters.
Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not
necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of December, 2008.

2

 