Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: February 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Steven Rothschild, M.D.
Joseph B. Starshak
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., DDS, MPH
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Victor M. Gonzalez
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: February 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:03 a.m.
Approval of Minutes: January 2017 and December 2016 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: As we are very much aware, we inaugurated a new President since
our last meeting. Commissioner Morita provided some updates on CDPH’s work as a result of
the new administration.
New Administration
 CDPH continues to work to ensure the positive impacts we have seen as a result of the
Affordable Care Act are not repealed. This has included sharing information with our
Congressional Delegation and working with partners to ensure more people are aware of
all the ways we have been impacted – not just in getting more people insurance, but in
providing us with direct funds that have helped our immunization, lead and food
protection programs.
 Sheri Cohen from our team will present today on the ACA more in depth, but as a
preview, I wanted to share an article on the effects of the ACA for our department that
was featured in the Tribune last week.
 As you have probably seen in the media, Mayor Emanuel has reiterated the important of
immigrants and refugees to Chicago and has pledged to uphold Chicago’s status as a
Sanctuary City. Our staff has been instructed to reiterate this commitment to our clients
and we have created new signage in multiple languages, including Arabic and Urdu that
will be at all our clinic sites in the coming week reminding residents that “All Are
Welcome.”
 Though the President has repeatedly threatened to cut federal funding to cities that
welcome all immigrants, we have received no word regarding this threat and given the
various legal questions involved, we will continue to operate under the assumption that
all federal contracts will continue to be met. That said, we are watching this situation
closely, as we are watching other emerging situations, and will provide any updates if and
when they occur.
Flu Season
It is flu season. We have seen an uptick in cases, which is par for the course this time of year.
However, flu season has not been as severe as the most recent past thus far. But there are still
several weeks left. The good news is the two most common strains of flu we are seeing this year
are included in the vaccine. If you haven’t gotten your flu shot yet, please do.
Mental Health
In January, Commissioner Morita joined the Mental Health Response Steering Committee to
launch our first Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) training for community members. We announced
plans to train more than 400 community leaders in Austin, Lawndale and Garfield Park so they
are able to better able to respond to a mental health crisis, access the city’s mental health services
and request a CIT first responder. This is part of our comprehensive effort to strengthen the
city’s overall behavioral health response system and follows training already provided to
Aldermanic offices and all OEMC dispatchers.
Public Works
Commissioner Morita reported they are seeing more public works projects and programs across
our sister agencies that will positively impact public health. Specifically, the city recently

 Chicago Board of Health
Meeting Summary: February 15, 2017
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
announced modernization for the Garfield Green line and Garfield Gateway project, as well as
the modernization of the Red and Purple lines, following the improvements already made to the
Southside branch of the Red line. Additionally, there is a new pilot program to develop vacant
homes in neighborhoods in need and the expansion of youth mentoring programs that the Mayor
announced last month – all of which directly align directly with the goals of Healthy Chicago
2.0.
CDPH Recognition
 For the second year in a row, Chicago has been named one of the nation’s top 25
innovators by Harvard University. This year we were honored for the predictive analytics
model developed by DoIT and used by our food protection team to identify restaurants
most likely to have critical health code violations. The model has allowed us to prioritize
those inspections, identifying problems faster and helping owners comply with the code
more quickly.
 This morning, CityHealth, a project of the de Beaumont Foundation, will announce that
Chicago is a gold-level city – the highest rating. This was determined based on an
assessment of city policies and efforts around nine evidence-based topic areas that boost
people’s well-being, including the social determinants of health.
Additional updates reported:
 Chicago was ranked the most bike-friendly city in the United States according to the
Bicycling magazine.
 Healthy Chicago 2.0 is serving as template to other health organizations and agencies.
 Violence is a priority in Healthy Chicago 2.0 and CDPH’s violence prevention program
is working with varies departments and agencies.
 Marilta White, Director of Violence Prevention will be asked to attend an up-coming
meeting to provide information and status on the violence programs and activities
currently being worked on.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez welcomed the students and provided an
overview of the board’s history and explained the board’s advisory role in matters of infectious
disease and health issues affecting public health.
Presentation: Potential Impacts of ACA Repeal Sheri Cohen, Senior Healthy Planning Analyst
Policy Update: None
New Business: The Chicago Board of Health passed a resolution in support of immigrant rights,
calling on all medical and healthcare providers in Chicago to adopt policies and procedures to
actively protect immigrants. The resolution also reiterates Mayor Rahm Emanuel's recent
commitment that Chicago is and will remain a Welcoming City for all of its residents.
Old Business: None
Public Comment: None
Adjourn: The meeting adjourned at 10:30 a.m.
Next Board Meeting: Wednesday, March 15, 2017 at 9:00 a.m.

 