Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, October 7, 2014

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeitng of the committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings
of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.
14-0417
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to Waste Management of Illinois, Inc. (“WMI”), Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain two
groundwater monitoring wells, one existing and one proposed, along Doty Avenue at the Beaubien Woods Forest
Preserve. The groundwater monitoring wells are to insure that the groundwater quality
is not affected by the nearby landfills.

 Term:

Ten (10) Years

License Fee:

$3,400.00

License Application Fee: $1,000.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $7,800.00 for the term of the License(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: 0.004 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be acceptable;
therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the issuance of this
license.
District(s): 4
Legislative History:

9/9/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

14-0419
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to The Village of Niles, Illinois (“the Village”) to locate, operate and maintain a 72-inch storm
sewer and outfall structure to the North Branch Chicago River. The storm sewer is part of a storm water relief
program that also includes a detention basin and bioinfiltration facility on other village property. The sewer will
capture storm water runoff to relieve flooding and to reduce the combined sewer overflow discharge. The request
also includes licensing the existing combined sewer overflow structure for which no license or agreement is known.
The Village will also construct a new ADA crosswalk on Caldwell Avenue at Cleveland Street with push button
activated flashers, and a new paved trail connection, along the route of the new storm sewer, to the existing North
branch Trail. The crossing will improve accessibility and safety and provide an alternative to the current use of the
FPCC driveway and parking lot to access the trail.
Term:

Continuous

License Fee:

$23,439.39

License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00

Page 2 of 3

 Total one-time upfront fee of $27,339.39 for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: $141,212.64
The area of the License is: 0.34 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and has found them to be acceptable;
therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the issuance of this
license.
District(s): 13
Legislative History:

9/9/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice Chairman:
Members:

Murphy
Gorman
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

 