REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION,
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND VETERANS RELATIONS

May 28, 2008
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri and Commissioners Beavers,
Butler, Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy.
Peraica, Quigley, Schneider and Sims (15)

Absent: Commissioners Collins and Steele (2)
Also Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. - Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions
Present: Bureau; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau; David

Ansell, MD, MPH - Chief Medical Of?cer, Associate Dean and Vice
President of Hospital Affairs, Rush University Medical Center; Warren L.
Batts - Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Premark
International; Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM President and Chief Executive
Of?cer, Mercy Hospital Medical Center; Luis Munoz, MD- Director of
Occupational Medicine, WorkCare Medical Management

Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.
Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental and Veterans Relations of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Wednesday, May 28,
2008 at the hour of 10:00 AM. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North
Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report,
the recommendations are as follows:

294146 CANDIDATES FOR THE INTERIM BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK
COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH (ADDITIONAL APPOINTMENTS).
Transmitting a Communication from Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County
Board of Commissioners, dated May 15, 2008.

With the restructuring and reorganization of the Bureau of Health Services, the
passage of adequate new revenue found in the 2008 Budget and an
agreement on the legislation needed to establish an independent hospital
governance, the County Board, under my leadership, is poised to take the next
step. in a series of positive steps, to preserve the Cook County Health Care
System.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 28, 2008

PAGE 2

As this process moves forward, it is important to affirm that all of the parties
involved have worked with genuine concern for the long-term well?being of our
health system. The organizations which participated in the Nominating
Committee did a tremendous job in fonivarding a solid group of individuals.
Additionally, I believe the County Board did their duty in analyzing the
nominees presented by this administration. This is not a perfect process (and it
is not enough to merely vote but it is the process we must move forward
in order to ensure that our children's generation has universal access to quality
health'care in Cook County.

Based on the amendments passed by the Board to the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System Ordinance, I am transmitting the names of four
additional persons to serve:

0 David Ansell. MD. MPH: Chief Medical Officer, Associate Dean and
Vice President of Hospital Affairs, Rush University Medical Center;

. Warren L. Batts: Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Of?cer,
Premark International;

. Sister Sheila Lvne. RSM: President and Chief Executive Of?cer,
Mercy Hospital Medical Center; and

0 Luis Munoz. MD. MPH: Director of Occupational Medicine,
WorkCare Medical Management

Their vast experience in health care administration, as well as their
backgrounds in both the public and private sectors, will be much-needed
assets. I am con?dent that these four individuals will bring professional and
independent oversight and I therefore. urge the Board of Commissioners to
provide for their swift confirmation.

Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental and
Veterans Relations on May 20, 2008.

Chairman Suffredin explained the procedures that would be used for the meeting. First,
testimony from the public would be taken on all proposed nominees. Next, each proposed
nominee would provide a brief presentation of their qualifications, after which Committee
members would be given the opportunity to ask questions of the preposed nominee.
Finally, the Committee members would take a roll call vote on each proposed nominee
after all had presented to the Committee.

The proposed nominees presented in the following order:

1. David Ansell, MD, MPH
2. Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM
3. Luis Munoz, MD, MPH
4. Warren L. Batts

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

MAY 28, 2008
PAGE 3
1. Quentin Young, MD Chairman, Health and Medicine Policy Research
Group
2. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Chairman Suffredin requested that a communication received from the Emergency
Network to Save Cook County Health Services be made a part of the record. (See

Attachment 

David Ansell provided a brief overview of his qualifications, which was followed by a
question and answer session with the Committee members.

Sister Sheila Lyne provided a brief overview of her quali?cations, which was followed by a
question and answer session with the Committee members.

Luis Munoz provided a brief overview of his quali?cations, which was followed by a
question and answer session with the Committee members.

Warren L. Batts provided a brief overview of his qualifications, which was followed by a
question and answer session with the Committee members.

Chairman Suffredin requested that a copy of the testimony of July 10, 1997 of Warren L.
Batts before the Subcommittee on Social Security of the House Committee on Ways and
Means be made a part of the record. (See Attachment 

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to concur with
the recommendation of the President (Communication Number 294146) and to
confirm the nomination of David Ansell to the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board of Directors. A Roll Call was taken, the vote of yeas and nays being

as follows:

ROLL CALL TO CONCUR WITH THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
AND TO CONFIRM THE NOMINATION OF DAVID ANSELL TO THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(COMMUNICATION NUMBER 294146)

Yeas: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri and Commissioners Butler,
Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Quigley, Schneider and
Sims (12)

Nays: Commissioners Maldonado and Peraica (2)

Absent: Commissioners Beavers, Collins and Steele (3)

The motion to concur and confirm CARRIED.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 28, 2008

PAGE 4

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to concur with
the recommendation of the President (Communication Number 294146) and to
confirm the nomination of Sister Sheila Lyne to the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors. A Roll Call was taken, the vote of yeas and

nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL TO CONCUR WITH THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
AND TO CONFIRM THE NOMINATION OF SISTER SHEILA LYNE TO THE COOK
COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(COMMUNICATION NUMBER 294146)

Yeas: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri and Commissioners Butler,
Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica. Quigley,
Schneider and Sims (13)

Nays: Commissioner Maldonado (1)

Absent: Commissioners Beavers, Collins and Steele (3)

The motion to concur and con?rm CARRIED.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved to concur with
the recommendation of the President (CommUnication Number 294146) and to
confirm the nomination of Luis Munoz to the Cook County Health and Hospitals

System Board of Directors. A Roll Call was taken, the vote of yeas and nays being
as follows:

ROLL CALL TO CONCUR WITH THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
AND TO CONFIRM THE NOMINATION OF LUIS MUNOZ TO THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BQARD OF DIRECTORS
(COMMUNICATION NUMBER 294146)

Yeas: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri and Commissioners Butler,
Claypool, Daley, Goslin?, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley and Sims (11)

Nays: Commissioners Gorman, Maldonado and Schneider (3)

Absent: Commissioners Beavers, Collins and Steele (3)

The motion to concur and con?rm CARRIED.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 28, 2008

PAGE 5

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to concur with
the recommendation of the President (Communication Number 294146) and to
Confirm the nomination of Warren L. Batts to the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board of Directors. A Roll Call was taken, the vote of yeas and nays being

as follows:

ROLL CALL TO CONCUR WITH THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
AND TO CONFIRM THE NOMINATION OF WARREN L. BATTS TO THE COOK
COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(COMMUNICATION NUMBER 294146)

Yeas: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri and Commissioners Butler,
Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Quigley, Schneider and
Sims (12)

Nays: Commissioner Maldonado (1)

Present: Commissioner Peraica (1)

Absent: Commissioners Beavers. Collins and Steele (3)

The motion to concur and con?rm CARRIED.

Commissioner Quigley, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri, moved to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 294146 Approved

David Ansell Nomination Con?rmed
Sister Sheila Lyne Nomination Con?rmed
Luis Munoz Nomination Con?rmed
Warren L. Batts Nomination Con?rmed

Respectfully submitted.
Committee on Legislation,
Intergovernmental and Veterans
Rela 

 

Larry Su?redih.? Chairmah 



/Mait_bew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

The transcript and audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the
Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

Emergency Network to Save
Cook County Health Services

tester-in - - I ittcdThe Emergency Network to Save Cook County Health Services has grave concerns regarding the
con?rmation of Warren Batts to the Independent Board of Directors for the Bureau of Health Services.

The Emergency Network is unable to support Batts? con?rmation to the Health Board, due to his public
opposition to Medicare and Social Security and his lack of commitment to public healthcare. The Emergency
Network believes that members of the Health Board must be citizens committed to delivering healthcare to all
regardless of their ability to pay.

As Chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers, Warren Batts aligned himself with an
organization, which has historically supported the privatization of America?s healthcare system and Social
Security System.

In regards to healthcare policy, the National Association of Manufacturers has publicly stated, ?that private
market solutions are superior to huge government-run pro grams.? The Emergency Network questions how
Mr. Batts could be entrusted to run a ?huge government-run program? like the Cook County Bureau of Health
Services, if he ?indamentally opposes government healthcare initiatives.

Secondly, the Emergency Network has many questions for Mr. Batts regarding his public comments on
America?s Social Security System. In July of 1997, Mr. Batts testi?ed before the Subcommittee on Social
Security of the House Committee on Ways and Means. In his opening statements, Batts stated that ?two
programs of the federal government present signi?cant threats to the continued vitality of-the US. economy:
one is Medicare; the other is the Social Security retirement system.? Batts? solution for addressing the ?scal
insolvency of America?s Social Security System was privatization individuals should "own? their retirement
savings, no less than they own a piece of real estate or shares of stock.

Lastly, Warren Batts serves as a Governor of the United Republican Fund, an organization dedicated to
advancing conservative principles, ideas and policies. The United Republican Fund has as one of their main
principles that ?government should only intervene to establish minimum health and safety standards, and
encourage competition.?

The Emergency Network questions how Warren Batts could faithfully serve as a steward of a healthcare
system when it appears that he has aligned himself with organizations that oppose government-run healthcare
programs, and have favored instead the privatization of public initiatives.

With the exception of Warren Batts, the Emergency Network commends President Todd Stroger?s selections
to the Independent Board of Directors for the Bureau of Health Services, and we would like to thank President
Stroger for taking the ?rst step to restore the Bureau of Health Services by putting forth well?quali?ed and
committed individuals to serve as the directors of the county?s healthcare system.

With the selection of President Stroger?s other nominees to the Health Board, the Emergency Network
believes that ongoing expertise will be put in place giving people the care they deserve. We urge the Cook
County Board of Commissioners to accept President Stroger?s nomination of Dr. David Ansell, Dr. Luis
Munoz, and Sister Sheila Lyne, so that the Cook County will have the historic opportunity to make the Bureau
of Health Services one of the ?nest healthcare in America, even stronger.

ATTACHMENT #1 

 Apr. 24. 2005} No.3796 P. 13
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social Security, Testimony 7-10-97 Page 1 of 5

Statement of Warren L. Batts, Chairman and CEO

 

 



Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Social Security
of the House Committee on Ways and Means

Hearing on "The Future of Social Security for this Generation and the Next"
Members of Congress and Business and Labor Groups

July 10, 1997

Thank you Chairman Banning. I am Warren Batts, Chairman and CEO of the Tupperware Corporation,
and Chairman of Premark International, Inc., and of the National Association of Manufacturers. I am
pleased to represent the NAM today in testifying before this subcommittee.

This morning, I shall make observations concerning:

The importance of economic growth to all Americans, and the negative effects of unrefonned
entitlement programs on such growth;

Certain "principles" for reform of the current Social Security System, offered for the consideration of
this Subcommittee; and,

A suggested "demonstration program" as a way to test the popularity and feasibility of reforms.
Entitlement programs, economic growth, and ?mdamental fairness to Americans.

Mr. Chairman, two programs of the federal government present signi?cant threats to the continued
vitality of the us. economy: One is Medicare; the other is the Social Security retirement system.

I don?t make this statement for the sake ofdrarnatic effect. In fact, if my objective were to shock the
Subcommittee and members of Congress, I could ?nd words more pointed than that the programs
"signi?cantly threaten the Vitality" of our national economy. The truth of the matter is that Medicare and
Social Security constitute premises which are beyond the ability of the government to pay. The
projected costs of the programs exceed the funds that will be available. And if goVernment sought to
raise enough additional funds through new levels of taxes to pay for the continuing shortfall, the
economy would simply get turned on its head, with both individuals and businesses contributing
increasing portions of their earnings to pay for entitlement programs out of control.

Neither this economy nor any economy has the strength and resiliency to absorb the necessary level of
tax increases to pay for these programs and remain competitive in the global marketplace. Global
competition destroys those who are complacent or inef?cient, or those whose organizing principles
come ?'orn obsolete ideologies. If we lose our ability to compete effectively in this marketplace, our
economy becomes static. At the very least, it can no longer grow; in fact, it is far more likely to decline.

And growth, Mr. Chairman, is what America is all about.

America is an idea based on growth, where successive generations have invested their energy and
human capital, no less than their savings, in hopes of material and social progress. And through
economic growth, America has achieved a high degree of fairness for individuals. Indeed, any lack of


ATTACHMENT #2 

Luna-Nun? manila-tanner ion-nan nnv/lpnumricn?enr?? 

1AM. 24. 2008 1 No.3796 P. 14
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social Security, Testimony 7-10-97 Page 2 of 5

growth by speci?c groups within our American seeiety is taken as an immediate signal of a lack of

 

fairness.

As this century draws to a close, the rest of the world looks to us, even if it sometimes fails to admit it.
and seems ?nally to have learned what Americans have known since the nation was founded: Economic
growth is the best way of accomplishing fairness for individuals within a society. Nations have burned
their ideological textbooks and are studying American institutions, beginning with the economic
institution that is the individual. Growth is achieved through investment of human and ?scal capital in
productive enterprise. Such investment will continue only if the government forebears con?scating the
savings of individuals and businesses in order to pay the compounding liabilities of unreformed
entitlement programs.

Entitlement programs threaten our economic well-being collectively, and threaten the fairness to all of
us as individuals.

Social Security reform and economic growth -

Economic growth through increased productivity and competitiveness of US. manufacturers remains
the most signi?cant goal pursued by the National Association of Manufacturers since its founding more
than 100 years ago. The signi?cant attention by the NAM to the critical need to reform our entitlement
pregrams indicates the relative importance we accord the issue. Even more than issues affecting trade,
regulatory. reform or tax policy, the NAM has identi?ed reform of the entitlement programs as the issue
most important to economic growth for American business and economic independence for individuals.

Growing awareness of structural imbalance of the Social Security system --

Reform or restructuring of the Medicare system is, of course, an enormous issue. In recent weeks,
Congress and the White House have shown increased awareness of the need to address Medicare more
broadly. This series of hearings on the Social Security system provides evidence of increased debate of
the issue. The title of these hearings, "The Future of Social Security," itself underscores growing popular
awareness that the future of the Social Security system actually is in doubt. The NAM regards such
doubts as well taken.

For over a decade, the NAM has warned of structural imbalance within the Social Security system and
the necessity of fundamental reform. NAM attention to the issue quickened during 1995 and 1996. 33
popular perception of demographic changes affecting the system sharpened, and as the ?rst legislative
proposals appeared.

At its September 1996 meeting, the NAM Board approved a resolution on Social Security reform. In

April of this year. the Board approved a "Statement of Principles" outlining its position on reform in
greater detail. The principles emphasize fairness for individuals and growth for the US. economy.

The NAM Statement of Principles for Social Security reform.

The Statement of Principles adopted by the NAM Board are attached to the written testimony provided
in advance to the Subcommittee.

While not endorsing any speci?c reform proposal yet put forward by legislators or public policy

institutions, the NAM principles address prerequisites to fundamental reform -- features which a
reformed system must possess in order to achieve the goals of fairness for individuals and growth for the

Lu_. - ?l-vvnr-nnu-rlr?A?un nntr??h??lrl?n?o??'fl him 4" 219.003

 Apr. 24. 2008 No.3796 P. 15
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social Security, Testimony 7?10-97 Page 3 of 5

U.S. economy.

Less obviously, but no less importantly, the principles address the fact that structural imbalance of the
current Social Security system, not merely insuf?cient funding, makes refortn necessary. A fundamental
distinction in testimony that this Subcommittee is likely to hear is between those who view "The Future
of Social Security? as a funding issue, and those who see reform as a way to address structural
imbalance of the current system. Count the NAM among the latter.

Decoupling of retirement savings from the "safety net" of social insurance -

In addressing structural imbalance of the current system, the ?rst principle for reform is that savings for
retirement be separated ?'om the ?safety net" of protection against poverty in old age.

Mr. Chairman and members of the Subcommittee, I probably don't have to tell you that what I've
referred to as the "?rst principle" -- that of segregating savings from social insurance is the most
controversial part of the debate over reform of the Social Seemity system.

From the point of view of those advocating reform, a separation of the savings function from the social
insurance element of the current system is overwhelmingly obvious. Any business-person inunediately
recognizes that accumulation of reserves -- "savings" - as a function entirely separate ii'om protecting
those reserves through the medium of insurance. Thus, the reaction of pragmatists, such as NAM
members, is to make a separate savings function the ?rst principle and cornerstone of reform.

I recognize, of course, that defenders of the current system are likely to disagree vehemently with my
assertion that a decoupling of savings ?'om safety-net is "obvious." If I understand their position, it is
that the Social Secmity retirement system represents the great achievement of Twentieth Century liberal
democracy -- an total-generational social compact for centralized and scheduled redistribution of funds
acquired through federal taxing authority.

While I respect the right to such views, I disagree profoundly with the assumptions about individuals
and about economics on which those views are based. But to spare this Subcommittee a discussion of-
political theory, I?ll simply note that changing demographics are making the current system
economically obsolete and unsustainable. Hence, our ?rst principle for reform is that the social
insurance element of "Social Security" be separated from the accumulation of retirement savings.

Individual ownership of retirement savings --

The second NAM principle is that individuals should have an ownership interest in the savings that they
accumulate over their working lives.

Individual ownership of retirement savings is not only obvious, but well established as a legal principle
under pension law. Individuals retain a vested right to their accumulated retirements savings, protected
by federal law. Fmther, such savings are to be accumulated until retirement, and not used for other
purposes. In the event of an individual's premature death, the accumulated savings are available to their

survivors and heirs.

In short, individuals should "own" their retirement savings, no less than they own a piece of real estate
or shares of stock.

Investment of retirement savings free of government control --

Huur? Ian-?on hh?l?l 

.Apr. 24. 2008 No. 3796 P. 16
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social Security, Testimony 7-10-97 Page 4 of 5

The third NAM principle for reform is that amounts saved by individuals for retirement should be held


defer to pension law already on the books. The so-called "Exclusive Benefit" rule under ERISA means

that retirement savings exist for one propose -- to provide income to an individual in retirement. Such

savings exist for the singular purpose of providing retirement income to the individual who has saved

the money. The government should have no right to control investment of the funds.

Accordingly. inditriduals' savings would be held in trust by ?duciaries responsible to the individuals
who had saved the money. And within standards similar to those of ERISA, the individual would direct
prudent investments. Obviously, this isn't to say that there would be no pooling of individual accounts --
of course investment managers would pool accounts, in just the same way that hundreds of billions of
dollars in pension plan investments and 401(k) plans are currently pooled.

Early implementation of reforms --

In addition, the NAM reform principles emphasize the importance of implementing reforms as soon as
possible.

We all recognize the enormity of the transition funding issue. And while detailed proposals for an
equitable means of transition ?mding await the development of econometric models, one thing remains
overwhelmingly clear:

Any solution to the issue of transition-period ftmding ultimately turns upon early implementation of
reforms, so that the greatest number of individuals have the greatest amount of time to accumulate
individual retirement savings, and thus become less dependent upon the current Social Security system.

Demonstration program for Social Security reform.

Mr. Chairman, the NAM is an organization composed of more than 14,000 member companies that
differ in the speci?cs of their businesses, but that share certain core Among the most
central assumptions is "practicality" -- whether a proposed strategy or activity will prove successful in
achieving its goals.

To this effect, NAM efforts in furtherance of Social Security reform have stressed practical economic
and political concerns. We believe reform consistent with the NAM principles is not only an intelligent
idea but an eminently doable undertaking.

In making such arguments, the NAM has responded to those who oppose reform, ostensibly at least
because they regard reform of the Social Security system as impractical. Opponents of reform argue that
the detailed record-keeping and funds transfers under a system of individual acctiunts are not feasible,
and further, that as a practical matter, little popular support exists for changing the current system.

Okay then, let's put Social Security reforms to a practical test.

The NAM, upon its own motion, has endorsed an idea put forward by a member of the Congress for
creation of a demonstration program to test the feasibility and popularity of Social Security reform.

Such a demonstration project would allow up to a half-nullion American workers between the ages of

twenty and thirty to participate for a ?ve-year period in a program of individual retirement accounts in
lieu of participation in the Social Security retirement system. Individuals would have choices among

11mm? anvil?aum/enmen/l 4? 8,2008

.Apr. 2.4. 2008 No. ?3796 P. 17
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social Security, Testimony 7-10-97 Page 5 of 5

selected types of individual account plans. At the end of the demonstration period, the individuals Wauld


participated in the demonstration project. In the alternative, the individuals could keep their account

balances as savings for retirement, and have their Social Security bene?ts adjusted actuarially to re?ect

their ?ve-year absence from the system.

We believe that the demonstration program would prove very popular and that it would provide
Congress with highly valuable information and detailed data throughout the ?ve-year period. The
program would ?give Congress a considerable amoont of information regarding levels of
participation and choices among retirement savings plans. Throughout the demonstration program,
Congress would enjoys continuing source of information on savings patterns, investment choices and
operating costs for individual accounts.

We at the NAM took up the idea of a demonstration program without prior discussion with other trade
associations or public-policy organizations. We welcome their commentary, but we strongly encourage
this Subconmtittee and Congress to act quickly, and, at the very least, enact legislation setting up the
administrative structure for a demonstration program. -

Although we are cautious in speaking for them, we suggest that those in the business of pension record-
keeptng and funds management might be forthcoming with ideas and technical systems support for such
a project.

Summary

Mr. Chairman and members of the Subcommittee, in closing I again emphasize the seriousness of the
threat to individuals and to the American economy from an unfonned entitlement program. Secondly. I
invite your attention to the NAM Statement of Principles for reform of the Social Security system.
Finally, I encourage this Subcommittee to report out a bill establishing a demonstration program for
Social Secmity reform.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to answering questions.

hnnce. anv/leannv/snnaenll (Henna/?74 0-97/7-1 Oba?hm't 4/ 8/ 2003

