The Forest Preserves of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Council
Minutes for May 18, 2016 ▪ Camp Reinberg, 1801 N Quentin Rd, Palatine, IL

Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 10:01 a.m. The following Council members
and others attended:
Advisory Council Members
Wendy Paulson, Chair
Falona Joy, Vice Chair
Mark Templeton, Secretary
Laurel Ross
Michael De Santiago
Rob Castaneda
Sylvia Jenkins
Linda Mastandrea
Commissioner Robert Steele

Forest Preserve Staff
Arnold Randall
Eileen Figel
Cathy Geraghty
Presenters
Troy Alim, FPCC
Shelley Davis, Forest Preserve Foundation of Cook County
Ty Kovach, Lake County Forest Preserves
Kindy Kruller, FPCC
Lambrini Lukidis, FPCC
Chris Slattery, FPCC
Karen Vaughan, FPCC

Peter Ellis and Terry Guen did not attend.

Representatives of the Chicago Botanic Garden, Brookfield Zoo, Audubon Chicago, Openlands, Friends of the Forest
Preserves, the Field Museum and other partners and FPCC staff also attended.
Public Comments. There were no comments from the public.
Approval of Minutes. A motion was made by Laurel Ross and seconded by Michael DeSantiago to approve the minutes
of the 3.27.16 meeting; the minutes were approved unanimously.
Discussion Topic 1: Building a Community of Support. Dr. Sylvia Jenkins explained that the first discussion topic would
focus on two NCCP goals: (i) Marketing the preserves as an iconic element of metro area, and (ii) Building the economic
case for nature. Staff and partners discussed the following opportunities and challenges related these goals.
•

Challenges. Dr. Jenkins indicated there are several key challenges related to these goals. First, how do we define
success and how do we know if we are achieving it? We want to achieve a broad understanding across the region
that the preserves are an important asset to our quality of life. For example, Austin is surrounded by protected
natural areas and they are promoted as regional assets by Austin’s chamber of commerce, city government, board
of realtors, university, etc. This is not the case in Cook County; how do we get there? Secondly, how do we handle
initiatives that FPCC does not have the expertise or capacity to lead?

•

Market research. Kindy Kruller presented key findings from surveys and other market research conducted by
FPCC and its partners between 2013 and 2015. This includes research conducted by Openlands consultant Carol
White, Latino roundtables facilitated by FPCC consultant Miguel Palacio, and surveys conducted in conjunction
with FPCC’s Natural & Cultural Resources Master Plan, Trail Master Plan, and Recreation Master Plan. Kindy
highlighted the following findings which recurred across these studies:
1. More information is needed including on-site messaging and external marketing.
2. Residents have a general understanding about the Forest Preserves, but limited knowledge about specific
sites and services including natural resources, facilities and programs.
3. People that regularly visit the preserves really enjoy and care about the preserves.

1

 •

Marketing Strategy. Lambrini Lukidis described a number of collaborative efforts already underway to reach likeminded audiences through the Brookfield Zoo, Chicago Botanic Garden, and others. For example, the Garden is
promoting FPCC programs and events in Keep Growing, a magazine distributed to 55,000 households, and the Zoo
is promoting FPCC programs and events via direct mail to 105,000 membership households. In addition, FPCC
has developed a marketing plan to promote:
1. PROGRAMS as the best way to increase awareness of the Preserves and market to the general consumer.
2. CONSERVATION as the primary focus of FPCC and as a way to increase volunteerism and stewardship.
3. RENEWED CONFIDENCE in FPCC’s policies and practices related to good governance.
The NextCenturyConservationPlan.org site was revamped to provide on-going progress reports related to plan
implementation, and the ForestForward newsletter was launched to grow support and awareness.
Chicago’s True Nature, a documentary on the Forest Preserves produced by WYCC, was recently released and will
be shown at Navy Pier and throughout the county, as well as on WYCC.

•

Busse Woods Pilot. Kindy Kruller discussed the NCCP goal to promote nature-related business development near
the preserves. The Economics Committee explored this goal at Busse Woods, collecting information about
number of visitors, available amenities, etc. However, FPCC does not have the expertise nor the capacity to
proactively recruit small businesses (such as ice cream shops or bike rentals) to sites available in nearby business
districts. No partner has stepped up to lead this initiative.

The Council discussed the following issues related to building a community of support.
Commissioner Steele asked how FPCC will track who is visiting which sites. He suggested adding SKU codes at sites to
allow visitors to scan a code and easily access information about what is happening at a site. Lambrini responded that
FPCC is currently focused on getting people to visit the preserves and making the FPCC website mobile-friendly.
Wendy Paulson asked how FPCC can tap the many residents who love and regularly visit the preserves. Can we use them
to write descriptions of sites and amenities such as trails? Wendy also suggested plugging into small, local newspapers.
Lambrini explained that FPCC sends a monthly media kit to local news sources, but it can be challenging to get the
information published. Eileen Figel added that FPCC has partnered with REI’s Hiking Project, a mobile app designed to
promote local trails by enabling users to rate and write descriptions of the trails. Deer Grove is the first FPCC site to be
uploaded; other site will follow.
Mark Templeton suggested that FPCC provide the platform to tee things up for new business development (rather than
playing the role of business recruiter.) Eileen Figel agreed this is a role FPCC can play and staff has already begun to
assemble information which can be made available to local chambers of commerce or other business associations.
Rich Gamble explained the need for strategic priority setting. There are competing needs—to redesign the website, to
better utilize social media, etc. All of this takes time and resources and FPCC must set priorities and map out activities to
be undertaken. Wendy Paulson stated it all comes back to two primary needs: (i) restore the preserves, and (ii) make
them welcoming. Justin Pepper suggested that crowd-sourced promotions, such as Trip Advisor, are trusted because the
content is generated by actual users. Rich Gamble suggested we need both a point person at FPCC to build relationships
with the media and get information to key influencers AND independent crowd sourcing. Lambrini added that FPCC is
interested in working with YELP, but needs a staff person who can respond to all inquiries.
Falona Joy suggested that the Zoo and Garden can be a great help in getting more people to visit the preserves. Could
there be a program which provides discounts to Zoo and Garden members for FPCC rentals and fees in order to drive more
people to the preserves? Rich responded that the Economics Committee is exploring this as part of the Busse Woods
pilot. He added that the Zoo and Garden are also exploring “adopting” a nearby preserve to connect Zoo and Garden
visitors with nearby FPCC activities.
Linda Mastandrea stated that, each time she stays at a hotel, she receives an email asking her to post a review to
TripAdvisor. Linda suggested that FPCC send an email to visitors who do provide contact info (for fishing permits, etc.)
2

 and ask them to post reviews. Linda also confirmed the need to think about staffing and how to manage the flow of
information to ensure that people submitting comments or questions are not ignored. Michael DeSantiago suggested
FPCC also survey dog park users.
Rob Castaneda stated that, in order to measure the success of the Busse Woods pilot, FPCC must measure who is returning
for future visits. Lambrini agreed that this is important but also noted it is difficult to fully capture this data.
Mark Templeton asked for information on the marketing budgets of FPCC, the Zoo and the Garden. Rich Gamble
responded that the Zoo’s marketing budget is approximately $1.7M (including staff); Jim Boudreau indicated that the
Garden’s marketing budget is about $200K (not including staff); Lambrini indicated that FPCC’s marketing budget is also
about $200K (not including staff). Mark asked Eileen Figel to confirm the marketing budgets, including staff.
Wendy Paulson asked if FPCC should be the primary instigator of economic development. Wendy added that this is not
FPCC's expertise; FPCC should focus on making the preserves healthy and get economic development agencies to
understand and value the preserves as an important regional asset.
Discussion Topic 2: Efficient & Effective Use of Resources. Falona Joy explained that FPCC is looking at two approaches
to improve efficiency: (i) Cost savings (such as outsourcing operation of aquatic centers, reducing the size of the fleet,
etc.), and (ii) Increasing non-tax revenues. She indicated that the discussion with the Council will focus primarily on the
second approach, raising revenues.
Falona explained that FPCC does not have the resources needed to fully implement NCCP, and the current political/fiscal
environment limits options for new tax revenues. Therefore, FPCC is focusing first on non-tax revenues such as growing
concessions and selling naming rights. Falona reminded the Council that these non-tax revenues represent a very small
portion of FPCC’s budget. She asked Troy Alim, FPCC’s budget director, to give an overview of FPCC’s current revenue
sources. Troy reported that FPCC expects to collect $57.5 million in 2016. Of this, $6.3M, or 11% of total revenues, comes
from non-tax sources (such as permit fees, golf and concessions). The remaining 89% of revenue is generated from taxes.
Falona explained that, even if FPCC is very successful with initiatives to raise new revenue and reduce costs, it is highly
unlikely these initiatives will raise the estimated three billion dollars needed to successfully implement the Next Century
Conservation Plan. Staff presented overviews of several initiatives designed to raise revenues or decrease costs.
•

Increasing Earned Revenue. Karen Vaughan presented an overview of current concessions, permits and
memberships. She explained that FPCC is working with a consultant to explore opportunities for growing revenue
from these sources.

•

Cost/Benefit Analysis. Karen described on-going efforts to analyze the cost and benefits of various FPCC programs
and services. Staff are also developing criteria for the level of subsidies which may be provided. Under the
proposed criteria, programs which are completely aligned with FPCC’s mission and which serve the public broadly
may be fully subsidized. This would include, for example, free entry to FPCC nature centers. Programs which do
not further FPCC’s mission and offer limited or individual benefits only would receive no subsidy and should
generate revenue to support other FPCC programs or services. (See attachment.)

•

Asset Marketing. FPCC is working with an asset marketing specialist, Superlative, to attract corporate sponsors
for campgrounds, pools, nature centers, dog parks, and trails. The initial assessment indicates these assets may
attract approximately $700,000 in corporate sponsorships per year.

•

Forest Preserve Foundation. Shelley Davis reported that the Forest Preserve Foundation granted $255,000 to
FPCC and its partners in 2015. The Foundation’s new strategic plan focuses on increasing the foundation’s visibility
and brand, increasing investment in programs, increasing resources, and strengthening leadership.

•

Creative Financing Strategies. Chris Slattery reported that FPCC has retained the Trust for Public Lands (TPL) to
study peer agencies across the country and identify best practices for funding conservation.

•

Lake County Forest Preserves (LCFP). Ty Kovach explained that the LCFP strategic plan establishes key
conservation goals, including: (i) Conserve nature at a landscape-scale by creating three 10,000-acre complexes
of diverse natural communities, (ii) Prevent species loss, (iii) Utilize data for better-informed decision making, and
(iv) Eradicate buckthorn on District lands. In recent years, the district experienced an increase in expenditures
3

 and a decrease in operating revenue. To ensure sustainability, the district refocused on its core mission—
restoring nature—and restructured its staff and budget to match the strategic plan.
The Council discussed the following issues related to effective and efficient use of resources.
Arnold Randall described challenges related to FPCC’s pension deficit, the need for additional resources to implement
NCCP, the need to rebuild trust in FPCC’s ability to govern and use resources wisely, and the need to continue building a
broad community of support.
Ty Kovach described efforts to build trust in LCFP and to tell a clear and compelling story about why the work should
continue. For LCFP, the answer to this question is, “To ensure no more species are lost.” LCFP cut $24M from its budget—
mostly through reduced spending on capital improvements. The district is creating an endowment for each preserve.
Commissioner Robert Steele stated that financial brokers are a large group of potential donors that should be tapped.
Wendy Paulson asked if Lake County has gotten traction with its vision. Ty explained how LCFP is using initiatives, such as
eradicating buckthorn, to build wider awareness, but they still have a ways to go. LCFP is also looking at how investments
in conservation impact property value and ecological value and how much more people will give if they understand these
benefits. LCFP combined its foundation and public affairs functions so there is a clear and consistent message about where
LCFP is going and how donors can help get there. The goal is to use the endowment to fund key positions related to
restoration management and wildlife biology. These positions will serve not just LCFP sites, but all natural areas
throughout Lake County.
Wendy Paulson stated that we must ensure that land which has been restored is maintained, and we may have to ask
tough questions. For example, does it make sense to divest in pools?
Arnold Randall replied that we can’t take back previous capital investments, but everything is up for discussion going
forward.
Michael DeSantiago stated that we must raise private funds. He asked how much private funding LCFP raises per year.
Rebekah Snyder replied that LCFP raised $2M over the past two years and is moving aggressively to build an endowment.
Arnold agreed this is important, but cautioned that philanthropy will not raise the level of resources needed to implement
NCCP. Arnold stated that, per capita, we do not fund the preserves like we should.
Commissioner Steele suggested establishing a FPCC tourism center in each region where residents can purchase gear,
find out what is happening in nearby forest preserves, and have opportunities to comment on plans and proposals.
Cathy Geraghty asked if LCFP has considered a capital campaign, similar to the National Parks Every Kid in a Park initiative.
Cathy suggested a similar campaign could help align FPCC, its Foundation, the Conservation and Policy Council, and others.
Ty Kovach suggested FPCC start a planned giving program. This is a 20 year strategy and should be started as soon as
possible.
Wend Paulson added that there are other important avenues for philanthropic contributions, such as volunteerism.
Volunteers give time and expertise and they become important advocates for the forest preserves.
Adjournment. Prior to adjourning, Mark Templeton suggested that the Council consider extending meetings to half day
sessions or convening a day-long retreat. Falona asked if some meetings should be held downtown to make it easier for
people to attend. Laurel Ross made a motion to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Rob Castaneda and the meeting
was adjourned at 12:04 pm.

4

 Attachment 1: Forest Preserves of Cook County Subsidy and Revenue Generating Plan
Objective:
Implementing the ambitious goals of the Forest Preserves of Cook County’s (FPCC), Next Century Conservation Plan requires additional resources. A
commitment to increasing non-tax revenues from various sources is one of several strategies that the FPCC is applying to generate additional funds.
The FPCC recognizes the need for guidelines to determine how and when to charge for services, programs and projects as a way to generate revenue
and cover costs. The FPCC’s goal is to determine what services, programs and projects most closely meet our mission and determine potential subsidy
levels accordingly.
These subsidy levels assume that the FPCC will subsidize programs and projects with budgeted general operating funds (e.g., program staffing, supplies,
maintenance, etc.). It is not the goal of these levels to subsidize a percentage of non-direct costs (e.g., Legal, HR, Utilities, etc.).
Subsidy Chart:
100 % Subsidy

Over 50% Subsidy

Under 50% Subsidy

0% Subsidy (Break Even)

Revenue Generating

1) Activity, program or
project furthers the
Forest Preserves of Cook
County’s mission and is
open and free for the
general public
2) Activity, program or
project is initiated by the
FPCC or an FPCC partner
3) Activity, program or
project is aligned with
FPCC/NCCP goals
4) Would be difficult to
capture fees or
determine per person
costs

1) Activity, program or project
furthers FPCC mission
2) Activity, program or project is for
limited number of people or for a
specific group
3) Possible to charge fees and
determine a per person cost
4) Fees would not deter Cook
County residents from participating
in the activity, program or project
5) Fees could be discounted for
underserved communities

1) Activity, program or project
mostly furthers FPCC mission
2) Activity, program or project
includes instruction and is for a
limited number of people or for a
specific group
3) If not led by FPCC; led by a
partner group that is charging an
admission fee or is fundraising for
a specific goal
4) Possible to charge fees and
determine a per person cost

1) Activity, program or project is
connected with the FPCC mission
2) Activity, program or project is for
an exclusive group of people and is
not open to the public.
3) Activity, program or project is a
service that FPCC wants to offer to
its patrons but has a significant cost
for the FPCC to provide
4) Activity, program or project has a
for profit goal
5) County residents would expect
to pay a fee for the activity,
program or project

1) Activity, program or project
has little or no connection to
FPCC mission
2) Activity, program or project
has a for-profit goal
3) Activity, program or project is
not led by FPCC
4) Activity, program or project
has implications that may
damage FPCC land but permit
holder will assume cost of any
damages incurred by activity,
program or project.

5

  

