 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Business and Economic Development Committee

Tuesday, April 12, 2016 8:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Gainer. Morrison. Schneider and Steele 
Absent: Vice Chairman Murphy and Commissioner Moore (2)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

 

Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107 
1. George Blakemore, concerned citizen

Additional Speakers List attached.

16-2563

COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval ofthe minutes from the meeting of 3/23/2016

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that the Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Morrison. Schneider and Steele (7)

Absent: Vice Chairman Murphy and Commissioner Moore (2)

16-2150
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioner

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

.IOLEN ELECTRIC COMPANY CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Propelty
Assessment Classi?cation 3 application containing the following information:

Applicant: Jolen Electric Company

Address: 3259 Holeman Avenue, South Chicago Heights. Illinois
Page I of 

Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Bloom Township

Cook County District: 6

Permanent Index Number: 32-33-103-109-0000 and 32-33-103-1 10-0000

Municipal Resolution Number: Village of South Chicago Heights Resolution Number 
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: One (1) month vacant

Special circumstances justi?cation requested: Yes

Estimated Number ofjobs created by this project: one two (2) full-time jobs
Estimated Number ofjobs retained at this location: Eight (8) full-timejobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Same as above

Estimated Number of construction jobs: Five (5)?10 construction jobs

Proposed use of property: warehousing and distribution ofelectrical parts and servicing
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned commercial facility; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as buildings
and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months, have been
purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct ?nancial interest; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist thatjustify
finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that Special circumstances justify finding the
property is deemed abandoned; and

WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase
for value; and

WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this speci?c real
estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the de?nition of abandoned with
special circumstances; and

WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying commercial real

estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that

new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of

substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years,
Page 2 of 1 I

15% for the 1 1th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners ofthe County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed

abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certi?ed
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce of the Cook County Assessor

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that this Resolution
(Class 8) Purchase for Value be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider and Steele (7)

Absent: Vice Chairman Murphy and Commissioner Moore (2)

16-2205
Sponsored by: TONI President and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

LITTLE BEANS CAFE CLASS 7A PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST

WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classi?cation 7A application containing the following information:

Applicant: Little Beans Cafe

Address: 430 Asbury, Evanston, Illinois

Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Evanston

Cook County District: 13

Permanent Index Number: 10?25-206-007-0000; 10?25-206?008?0000 and 10?25?203?01 1?0000

Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution No. 64-R?l4 approved 9/14/2014, 2014 and Resolution No.
80-R-15 approved 8/17/2015

Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Seven (7) years vacant

Special circumstances justi?cation requested: Yes

Confirmation supporting that all ?ve (5) eligibility factors have been met: Yes
Estimated Number ofjobs created by this project: Four (4) full-time, l9 pan-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: None

Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Two (2) full-time, eight (8) part-time

Page3 ofll

Estimated Number of construction jobs: Eight (8) I4 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Commercial
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Af?davit Provided: Not applicable

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adOpted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
7A that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial facility; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Classi?cation System for Assessment defines abandoned property as buildings
and other structures that, a?er having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous months, there has
been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist thatjustify
?nding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 7A and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested buyer,
the County may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding the property as being deemed abandoned;
and

WHEREAS, Class 7A requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as abandoned for the
purpose of Class and

WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 7A is necessary for development to occur on this specific real
estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications ofthis property to meet the definition ofabandoned with
special circumstances; and

WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% ofits market value, qualifying commercial real
estate eligible for the Class 7A can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that
new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of
substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 7A will be assessed at 10% ofthe market value for 10
years, 15% for the I 1th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed
abandoned with special circumstances under the Class and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified
copy ofthis resolution to the Of?ce ofthe Cook County Assessor.

A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider and Steele (7)

Absent: Vice Chairman Murphy and Commissioner Moore (2)

16-2290
Sponsored by: JESUS G. GARCIA, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS, STANLEY MOORE
Page 4 of 

and ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY COMMISSION ON SOCIAL INNOVATION FOR JOB
CREATION, WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT, ENTREPRENEURSHIP, COMMUNITY
REVITALIZATION, AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.

WHEREAS, the municipalities throughout Cook County, including inner?city Chicago and
those comprising the Chicago Southland, are facing high unemployment and other economic challenges; and

WHEREAS, high levels of economic distress in the aforementioned areas have been reported in the
Distressed Community Index from Washington DC. based, Economic Innovation Group, that shows high

levels of inequality; and

WHEREAS, people throughout Cook County are urgently seeking knowledge-based, innovation?driven
solutions to social problems relating to education, health care, unemployment, and poverty.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 14
Community Development, Article IX, sections 14?89 through 14?97 ofthe Cook County Code, is hereby
enacted as follows:

Sec. 14-89. Short title

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Ordinance Establishing the Cook County
Commission on Social Innovation.?

Sec. 14-90. Declaration
The County Board hereby establishes the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
Sec. 14?91. De?nitions

The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where
otherwise speci?cally indicated:

Board of Commissioners or County Board means the Board of Commissioners for Cook County,
Illinois
Commission means the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation created by this ordinance.

Chairperson means the chairperson of the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
County means Cook County, Illinois.

Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.

Inner City means any area within a municipality?s boundaries that is 
economically distressed, especially an area ofhigh unemployment.

Members means members of the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.

Ordinance means this ordinance creating the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
Page 5 of 

Social Innovation means novel solutions to social problems which are more effective, efficient,
sustainable, orjust compared to current solutions, for which the value created accrues primarily to society
rather than to private individuals, and ideas that promote public, private, and philanthropic collaboration in
order to create positive effects on areas with economic challenges.

South/and includes, but is not limited to the south?side of Chicago, the South incorporated
municipalities of Suburban Cook County, and the unincorporated areas of South Suburban Cook County.

Sec. 14-92. Purpose

The purpose ofthis ordinance is to create the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation, which
shall engage in the following activities:

The commission shall make actionable policy recommendations to help achieve the following
purposes:

(I) To strengthen the capacity of the inner city and the Southland and, generally, of the County to
work cooperatively with relevant stakeholders to create, scale, and sustain innovative social
programs;

(2) To build the capacity of nonprofit organizations and government to pursue entrepreneurial
ventures in the inner city and the Southland and in the County; and

(3) To attract investment and philanthropic funding to the inner city and the Southland and to the
County to support these ventures.
The commission shall advise the County Board and the heads ofthe County?s agencies and
departments.

The commission shall gather empirical information on social innovation, social
entrepreneurship, and social enterprise.

The commission shall receive and consider reports and testimony from individuals, government
departments, community-based organizations, nonprofit organizations, foundations, and other public and

private organizations (whether or not based in the County) about how social innovation and
entrepreneurship
can accelerate progress on social issues, work cross?sector, and advance social and economic development
goals.

The commission shall identify promising strategies that have been used in other communities,
counties, states and countries to encourage cross?sector collaboration on social issues.

The commission shall identify useful strategies to educate and train citizens, nonprofit
organizations, governments, students, and businesses on entrepreneurial concepts specifically as applied in the
social sector.

The commission shall serve as a resource for the County?s agencies and departments in
common cause to promote the Southland?s and the County?s data?driven social innovation ecosystem in
collaboration with other relevant actors; and (2) the County?s social innovation laboratory, converting a broad
and diverse array of interests and expertise within and across sectors to facilitate cooperation and the

Page6of11

co-creation of innovative solutions to social problems.

Sec. 14-93. Compliance with law

As a body empowered by the Cook County Board, the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation
shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, rules, regulations and orders.

Sec. 14-94. Chairperson and committee membership

The Cook County Commission on Social innovation shall consist ofthe following persons who shall
serve as commissioners each of whom shall leside within the corp01 ate boundaries of Cook County and shall

serve without 

The Chair of the County Board?s Business and Economic Development Committee, who shall
serve as the commission?s Chairperson.

A Vice Chairperson designated by the Chairperson who shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the commission.

The Executive Director of the South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association or his or her
designee.

The Bureau Chief of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development or his or her designee.

The Chair of the Cook County Economic Development Advisory Committee or his or her
designee.

The Superintendent ofthe Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways or his or her
designee.

A mayor or manager ofa municipality in the Southland, to be designated by the Chairperson as a
member of the commission.

Up to twenty (20) other persons appointed by the Chairperson who shall represent the diversity of
the County and reflect the various disciplines necessary or desirable to ensure the commission?s success.

Sec. 14-95. Term of of?ce; vacancies
The term of each commissioner designated under subsections 14-94(a) through (l1) shall coincide
with his or her term of public of?ce if such commissioner is the Of?ceholder, or with the term of public office

of the designating Of?ceholder if such commissioner is the designee.

Vacancies on the commission shall be ?lled in the same manner that original appointments are
made and shall be ?lled for the unexpired term of the commissioner whose place has become vacant.

Sec. 14-96. Quorum requirement

A quorum, being a majority of the commissioners then in office, shall be necessary in order to
conduct all hearings ofthe Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.

Page 70f ll

Sec. 14-97. Operations
The commission shall meet at least once per month.

The commissioners, under the direction of the Chairperson, shall organize themselves into
committees and subcommittees, which may be permanent or ad hoc. Committees and subcommittees may
include, as non-voting members, members of the public and relevant subject matter experts who are not
commissioners.

The Chairperson of the commission shall appoint the chairperson of each committee.

The chairperson of each committee shall appoint the chairperson of each subcommittee within the
jurisdiction of that committee.

Meetings of each committee or subcommittee shall be held at intervals determined by the
chairperson of the respective committee or subcommittee.

The commission may receive donations of money, labor, services, or other things of value from
any public or private agency or person.

The commission shall respond to assignments from County agencies and County departments in a
timely fashion and shall submit reports to the County Board at least annually. Such reports shall address the
plans, actions, and resources needed to achieve the commission?s purposes.

The commission shall serve as a research organization for the County Board regarding social
issues, incubating proposed solutions to social problems, and advancing them for further consideration and,
upon approval, for implementation. The goals of such collaboration shall include cooperation in prototyping
or modeling innovative social solutions, field?testing such solutions, and evaluating their results to ensure that
such solutions are practicable and to reduce the risks associated with their implementation.

All aspects ofthe commission?s work shall be governed by the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1
to 120/75, and by the Freedom oflnformation Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 to 140/1 1.5. Members ofthe public shall be
encouraged to attend and constructively participate in the commission?s meetings.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to suspend the rules to
consider a substitute introduced outside of the 24 hour minimum window. The motion carried by the
following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider and Steele (7)
Absent: Vice Chairman Murphy and Commissioner Moore (2)

A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, that this Ordinance
be recommended for approval as amended. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider and Steele (7)

Absent: Vice Chairman Murphy and Moore (2)

16-2121

Page Sofll

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and STANLEY MOORE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

PLASTIC COLOR CORPORATION CLASS GB SUSTAINABLE EMERGENCY RELIEF (SER)
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief(SER) application containing the following
information:

Applicant: Plastic Color Corporation

Address: 14201 Paxton Avenue, Calumet City, Illinois

Length of time at current location: 18 years

Length of time property under same ownership: 18 years

Is there evidence supporting 10 years of the same ownership and/or occupancy (tenancy): Yes

Age of the Property (Building): 37

Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Thornton

Cook County District: 4th

Permanent Index Number(s): 29?01?401?003-0000; 29-01-401?004?0000; 29?01?401?005-0000;
29-01-400?018-0000; 29?01-400-023-0000

Municipal Resolution Number: Calumet City Resolution No. 15?10 and Village of Burnham 15?001

Evidence of Economic Hardship: The Applicant has experienced signi?cant economic hardship as a result of
the recent recession, the current condition of the building and the obsolete equipment has made it difficult for
the company to remain viable. The applicant has currently 63 employees and needs to increase their workforce
to keep their competitive edge. This tax incentive will help upgrade the building; replace aging equipment and
increase work staff.

Number of blighting factors associated with the property: The applicant has stated the following blighted
conditions: Dilapidated- the roof has been patched over the years and needs to be replaced; Obsolete - The equipment is
out dated and the system fails to adequately heat and cool the property; and Deteriorated - the building HVAC needs to
be upgraded; the building needs tuck pointing and the parking lot needs to be upgraded.

Has justi?cation for the Class 6b SER program been provided?: Yes

Estimated of jobs created by this project: None

Estimated of jobs retained at this location: 62 full-time

Estimated of employees in Cook County: not applicable

Estimated of construction jobs: not applicable

Page9of11

Proposed use of property: Industrial - Manufacturing: Industrial, manufacturing of dry color compounds
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
6b Sustainable Emergency Relief(SER) that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for a
long-term existing industrial enterprise that meets the quali?cations of the SER program and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment requires that an applicant under the Class
6b SER program provide evidencejustifying their participation in the subject program; and

WHEREAS, Class 6b SER requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property for the purpose of
the Class Program; and

WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a minimum of
ten years prior to the date of the application for the Class 6b SER Program;

WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has submitted evidence of economic hardship
to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development supporting a determination that participation in the Class
6b SER Program is necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue its operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and without the Class 6b SER the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable
causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and

WHEREAS, the applicant is not receiving another Cook County Property Tax Incentive for the same property;
and

WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b SER is necessary for the industrial enterprise to maintain is
Operations on this Speci?c real estate. The municipal resolution cites the quali?cations ofthis property to meet
the definition of the Class 6b SER program; and

WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial real
estate eligible for the Class 6b SER can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the date
that the application is approved by the Cook County Assessor. Properties receiving Class 6b SER will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the I 1th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

WHEREAS, the applicant understand that the Class 6b SER classification is not renewable and also the
applicant vacates the specific real estate while the Class 6b SER is in place the designation will terminate and
the assessment level will immediately revert back to the 25% assessment level; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is meets the
requirements of the Class Program; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce ofthe Cook County Assessor

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison seconded by Commissioner Arroyo to suspend the rules to
consider a substitute introduced outside of the 24 hour minimum window. The motion carried by the
following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Murphy and Moore(2)
Page 10 of 



A motion was made by Commissioner Moore, seconded by Commissioner Steele to adjourn the meeting.

Respectfully submitted

25. 

 

 

Chairman Secretary

video recording ofthis meeting is available at 

 

Page II ofll

Business and Economic Development Committee 
Meeting of April 12, 2016 
Speakers List 
 
              Name                                                                                                     Organization 
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Marc Lane                                                                                    Law Office of Marc Lane 
The Honorable Sue Sadowski Garza                               Alderman 10th Ward, City of Chicago 
K. Sujata                                                                President and CEO, Chicago Foundation for Women 
The Honorable Vernard Alsberry, Jr.                   Village President, Village of Hazel Crest, Illinois 
Teresa Cordova, PhD                         Director of University of Illinois at Chicago’s Great Cities Institute 
Reggie Greenwood                 Deputy Executive Director, South Suburban Mayors and Managers 
Association 
Dan Swinney                                                            Executive Director, Manufacturing Renaissance 
Mollie  Dowling    Executive  Director,  Opportunity  Advancement  Innovation  in  Workforce 
Development 
Valerie Leonard 
Pamela Rodriguez                             President and CEO, Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities 
Victor Dickson                                                                            CEO, Safer Foundation 
Emile Cambry                                                                                 CEO, Blue 1647 
Mark D. McHugh                                                              President and CEO, Envision United 
Brenda Palms Barber                                  Executive Director, North Lawndale Employment Network 
Richard J. Monnochio                                    Executive Director, Housing Authority of Cook County 
Jacky Grimshaw                                                               Center of Neighborhood Technology    
George Blakemore 
Dr. Stuart Strohl                                                                   Chicago Zoological Society 
Michael Jasso 
Andrea Reed                                                         Greater Roseland Community Chamber of Commerce 

 