MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
June 20, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on June 20, 2003. The
Board met in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N.
LaSalle for closed session.
The following Board Member was present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Member
Violet Clark. Members Gary Peterlin and William Dugan were present telephonically.
The meeting convened at 12:10 P.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraph 1 of the Open
Meetings Act, Member Clark moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
items listed under Closed Session on today’s (June 20, 2003) agenda and relating to the
following subject matter:
1. Personnel
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
The Board convened its Open Session at 1:17 P.M.
Personnel
Based on the Board's review of Administrator Parenti's decision to accept employment with
Harrah's Entertainment Inc. and upon full consideration of the Board's duties under the
Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Clark moved that the Board immediately remove Mr.
Parenti as Administrator and place him on administrative leave through July 31, 2003.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Clark moved that Jeannette P. Tamayo be hired as the Interim Administrator of
the Illinois Gaming Board effective June 20, 2003 and receive compensation in the
amount of $13,330.00 per month plus expenses. Member Dugan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman Higginbottom congratulated Ms. Tamayo on her appointment as Interim
Administrator. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he is sure that Ms. Tamayo will be as
effective in her job as Interim Administrator as she was as Deputy Chief Legal Counsel.

 At 1:20 P.M. Member Clark moved that the Board adjourn. Member Peterlin seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

2

 