BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA

for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, May 21, 2014, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-107(dd) Public Testimony, public testimony will be permitted at
regular and special meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this
time to deliver testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three (3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board
Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-107(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of
the Board.
PRESIDENT

14-3079
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JOAN
PATRICIA MURPHY, LARRY SUFFREDIN AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
SMOKING TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN COUNTY FACILITIES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 30 Environment, Article
VIII. Clean Indoor Air, Division 1. Generally, Section 30-901 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as Follows:
Sec. 30-901. Smoking Tobacco Products policy for in County Facilities.
(a) Definitions.
“Cook County facilities” or “County facilities” means all Cook County owned or leased facilities,
including, without limitation, Cook County facilities housing administrative offices, courthouses, detention
facilities, clinics, hospitals, jails, storage facilities, garages and field locations.
“Electronic cigarette” means any electronically actuated device which in operation causes the user to
exhale any smoke, vapor, or other substance other than those produced by unenhanced human exhalation.
“Electronic Cigarette” includes any device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an
electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or
under any other product name or descriptor. The term “electronic cigarette” does not include any asthma
inhaler or other device that has been specifically approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration
“Tobacco product” for the purposes of this Sec. 30-901, means any product in leaf, flake, plug, liquid, or
any other form, containing nicotine derived from tobacco, which product is intended to enable human
consumption of the tobacco or nicotine, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted,
sniffed, or ingested by other means. The term “Tobacco products” excludes any product that has been

Page 2 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

specifically approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product or for other medical purposes, where such product is marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
“Smoke” or “smoking” for the purposes of this Sec. 30-901, means either (1) the carrying, smoking,
burning, inhaling, or exhaling of any kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs, tobacco
product or any other lighted smoking equipment; or (2) the use of any electronic cigarette.
(a) (b) Prohibition.
(1) Smoking in County Facilities. Smoking tobacco products by inhaling, exhaling, burning, chewing,
smoking, snorting, sniffing or ingesting or carrying any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or other lighted
tobacco product in any other form ("smoking") is not permitted in any areas of any County Facility.,
including, without limitation, those County facilities housing administrative offices, courthouses, detention
facilities or jails. This ban on smoking tobacco products in County facilities applies to all public areas of
Cook County Facilities as well as all areas used only by County employees or officials, including without
limitation individual offices of the separately elected or appointed officials operating and conducting
business in County facilities.
(2) Smoking tobacco products in Cook County owned or Cook County leased County vehicles. Smoking
tobacco products is prohibited in all vehicles owned or leased by the County of Cook.
(b) (c) Reasonable distance. Smoking tobacco products is prohibited within 15 feet of an enclosed area
of any County facility, except for County owned health facilities in which case smoking tobacco products
is prohibited within 30 feet, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute fire hazard in the event
of an emergency evacuation of the County facility. However, if the County operates County facilities
within buildings owned by third parties and the County's use in those buildings is not exclusive; this
subsection shall apply only insofar as it restricts the conduct of County employees.
(c) (d) Implementation. All appropriate County representatives, including the Chief of the Bureau of
Human Resources, Director of Facilities Management and the Chief Administrative Officer, and all elected
officials shall implement the foregoing policy ban.
(d) (e) Effect of section. This section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy and the smoking of tobacco products for in County
facilities. It is intended for this section to apply to County facilities. However, to the extent that any
provision of this section is less restrictive in regulating smoking the smoking of tobacco products in County
facilities than another ordinance, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 3 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3190
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Jack L. Block
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Human Rights
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 7/1/2015, or until a successor is appointed. Mr. Block will fill the vacancy of Belkis
Cervantes Muldoon

14-3191
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ceylan Eatherton
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Human Rights
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 7/1/2015, or until a successor is appointed. Ms. Eatherton will fill the vacancy of Jae
Choi Kim

14-3193
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Lyneir D. Richardson
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Land Bank Authority Board of Directors
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/1/2017, or until a successor is appointed. The appointment is pursuant to the
requirement that the Land Bank Authority Board contain one (1) representative with commercial retail
development experience

Page 4 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3194
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Kevin Freeman
Position: Chairman
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: The Chairman shall hold office until a successor is appointed

14-3195
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Alex Botvinnik
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Northfield Woods Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6/2/2017, or until a successor is appointed

14-3196
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Ronald Liotti
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Plum Grove Woodlands Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6/2/2017, or until a successor is appointed
Summary: N/A

Page 5 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

PRESIDENT
JUSTICE ADVISORY COUNCIL

14-2951
Presented by: JULIANA STRATTON, Executive Director, Justice Advisory Council
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Grantee: Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: This planning grant will support the evaluation of program activities, an ARI stakeholder’s
summit, and participation at the National Association for Drug Court Professional’s Conference event for
staff of the Office of the Public Defender.
Grant Amount: $25,212.05
Grant Period: 3/1/2014 - 6/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The ARI stakeholders (which include the Justice Advisory Council, State’s Attorney’s
Office, Office of the Public Defender, Office of the Sheriff, and the Department of Adult Probation) are
requesting funds in the amount of $25,212.05 to support an off-site two-day stakeholder’s summit, a
comprehensive data analysis of the project’s work with participants to date and, lastly, participation in
the National Association Drug Court Professional’s (NADCP) Conference scheduled for May 2014.
COMMISSIONERS

14-3115
Sponsored by: EARLEAN COLLINS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Commissioner Earlean Collins
Request: Approval of transfer of funds

Page 6 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Reason: Professional service contract
From Account(s): 081-110, $8,529.00
To Account(s): 081-260, $8,529.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $8,529.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
5/7/2014, $3,471.00, $8,317.00
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
The account has the funds that are needed. No other account was considered.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
The account was properly funded at the time of budgeting since that time the number of FTE’s has
changed.

14-3170
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT CREATING A PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE COOK
COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Part I.
General Ordinances, Chapter 2. Administration, Article III. County Board, Division 2. Rules of
Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105(g) is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-105. Organization.
(g)

…
Referrals to committees. The Board may by motion refer any item before the Board to a Committee
or to a subcommittee. The Chair of a committee may refer an item pending in that committee to a
subcommittee of that committee. An item referred by the Board to any committee or subcommittee,
or by a committee chair to a subcommittee, shall not be jointly referred to any other committee or
subcommittee. Only upon the return of the item to the Board, either by report of the committee or

Page 7 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

by the Board's discharge of the item from the committee or subcommittee, may the Board refer the
item to another committee or subcommittee.
Any item that creates a new ordinance or amends an existing section or sections of the Code shall
be referred to a committee or subcommittee upon its initial introduction to the Board. Upon referral,
the committee shall consider the item. Following the consideration of the item, the item shall be
reported to the Board or discharged by the committee or subcommittee.
All items referred to committee or subcommittee by the Board shall be designated with a
Communication Number as assigned by the Secretary to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. No committee or subcommittee shall meet for any purpose other than to consider
one or more items designated by Communication Numbers.
The Clerk shall refer the draft Journal of Proceedings directly to the Committee on Rules and
Administration and provide a Communication Number within 21 days of a Board Meeting.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

14-3200
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET GAINER and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO FORM A TASK FORCE TO RESEARCH,
DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE LEGISLATION FOR LEGALIZING AND REGULATING
CANNABIS USE FOR ADULTS IN ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, in 2000, the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) attempted to restate the
goals of the “War on Drugs”: “to educate and enable America's youth to reject illegal drugs as well as
alcohol and tobacco; to increase the safety of America's citizens by substantially reducing drug-related
crime and violence; to reduce health and social costs to the public of illegal drugs use; to shield
America's air, land, and sea frontiers from the drug threat; and to break foreign and domestic drug
sources of supply”; and
WHEREAS, in reality, most scholars agree that despite spending more than $1 trillion dollars over the
last 40 years on the “War on Drugs”, we have succeeded in none of these goals; and
WHEREAS, despite the efforts of the War on Drugs, the health and social costs of drugs increase every
year, and drug users are at heightened risk of death, illness and overdose, as the drugs available on the
black market are generally less safe. Drugs are no less available than before, our borders are not secure,
and treatment is not available to the vast majority of people who need it; and
WHEREAS, in 2010, the Obama Administration’s inaugural National Drug Control Strategy charted a
new course in our efforts to reduce illicit drug use and its consequences in the United States by calling
for drug policy reform rooted in scientific research on addiction, evidence-based prevention programs,
increased access to treatment, a historic emphasis on recovery, and criminal justice reform; and

Page 8 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, the 2013 ONDCP strategy consists of the following goals: “prevent drug use before it ever
begins through education; expand access to treatment for Americans struggling with addiction; reform
our criminal justice system to break the cycle of drug use, crime, and incarceration while protecting
public safety; support Americans in recovery by lifting the stigma associated with those suffering or in
recovery from substance abuse disorders”; and
WHEREAS, between 2001 and 2010, there were over 8 million marijuana arrests in the United States,
88% of which were for possession. Marijuana arrests have increased between 2001 and 2010 and now
account for over half (52%) of all drug arrests in the United States, and marijuana possession arrests
account for nearly half (46%) of all drug arrests; and
WHEREAS, most arrests for marijuana possession do not lead to trials or prison terms. Instead, a large
number of these arrests are plea-bargained, continued without a finding, dismissed, or otherwise handled
in a manner that makes poor use of limited criminal justice system resources; and
WHEREAS, the criminalization of marijuana use disproportionately harms young people and people of
color, sponsors massive levels of violence and corruption, and fails to curb youth access; and
WHEREAS, on average, an African-American is 3.73 times more likely to be arrested for marijuana
possession than a Caucasian, even though African Americans and Caucasians use marijuana at similar
rates. In the states with the worst disparities, African-Americans were on average over six times more
likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than Caucasians. In the worst offending counties across the
country, African Americans were 10, 15, even 30 times more likely to be arrested than Caucasians in the
same county. Such racial disparities in marijuana possession arrests exist in all regions of the country, in
counties large and small, urban and rural, wealthy and poor, and with large and small African American
populations; and
WHEREAS, there have been 1 million arrests for misdemeanor marijuana possession in the State of
Illinois from 1975 to 2009 and Illinois ranked sixth in the nation in per-capita marijuana arrest rates in
2007, representing 58 percent of all drug arrests in the state; and
WHEREAS, mirroring national trends, throughout Illinois, non-whites are arrested at a higher rate than
whites relative to their representation in the general population. Arrest data from 2007 indicated that
disproportionality in drug arrests occurred in 62 of the 102 counties in Illinois, including urban,
suburban, and rural areas and that most of the disproportionality in Illinois drug laws was related to drug
possession charges, which accounted for nearly 75 percent of felony drug arrests across the state; and
WHEREAS, despite the fact that the City of Chicago decriminalized small amounts of marijuana
possession 2 years ago and the number of arrests for marijuana possession have dropped to their lowest
level in 12 years, police continue to make an average of 44 arrests a day for misdemeanor possession
-more than for any other offense - and 78 percent of those arrested since August 2012 for carrying small
amounts of pot were African American, 17 percent were Hispanic, and just 4 percent were Caucasian;
and
WHEREAS, marijuana-related arrests in every Cook County municipality, including Chicago, result in
staggering costs to County government by virtue of the necessary involvement of the county jail,
Sheriff’s department, State’s Attorney, Clerk of the Court, judiciary, and often times, the Public
Defender, annually costing Cook County taxpayers tens of millions of dollars; and

Page 9 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, for the last several years, while Chicago police have made approximately 23,000 arrests a
year for marijuana possession, an astounding 97 percent of charges involving 2.5 grams or less were
dismissed between 2006 and 2010, creating nothing more than an unnecessary arrest record for some
20,000 individuals; and
WHEREAS, arresting people for cannabis possession does nothing to reduce its use, rather it can often
create barriers to living a normal life by negatively impacting public housing and student financial aid
eligibility, employment opportunities, child custody determinations, and immigration status, even if as is
almost always the case, the charges are dismissed; and
WHEREAS, Law Enforcement Against Prohibition (LEAP), a nonprofit organization made up of current
and former members of the law enforcement and criminal justice communities, is speaking out about the
failures of our existing drug policies and how they continue to fail to effectively address the problems of
drug abuse, especially among juveniles, the problems of addiction, and the problems of crime caused by
the existence of a criminal black market in drugs; and
WHEREAS, LEAP’S stated vision is to have a system of legalization and regulation which will end the
violence, better protect human rights, safeguard our children, reduce crime and disease, treat drug
abusers as patients, reduce addiction, use tax dollars more efficiently, and restore the public’s respect and
trust in law enforcement; and
WHEREAS, noted neurosurgeon Dr. Sanjay Gupta has stated that marijuana was classified as a
Schedule 1 substance, despite evidence that it was not as addictive as alcohol or tobacco; and
WHEREAS, existing evidence from other states and countries show there is no indication that
decriminalization of marijuana leads to a measurable increase in its use; and on the effects of marijuana
decriminalization on marijuana use provides no indication that decriminalization leads to a measurable
increase in marijuana use; and
WHEREAS, a 2005 report by Harvard University Professor of Economics, Dr. Jeffrey Miron, entitled
“The Budgetary Implications of Marijuana Prohibition” has been endorsed by more than 530
distinguished economists, who signed an open letter to then President George W. Bush, The United
States Congress, and Governors and State Legislatures across the country calling for “an open and honest
debate about marijuana prohibition,” and stated, “We believe such a debate will favor a regime in which
marijuana is legal but taxed and regulated like other goods.” Chief among the endorsing economists were
three Nobel Laureates in economics: Dr. Milton Friedman of the Hoover Institute, Dr. George Akerlof of
the University of California at Berkeley, and Dr. Vernon Smith of George Mason University; and
WHEREAS, approximately $8.7 billion in savings would result from legalization of marijuana at the
national level; and
WHEREAS, the citizens of Colorado and Washington, both States having previously legalized the use of
medical marijuana, voted in favor of ballot referendums in 2012 to legalize and regulate the use of
recreational marijuana for adults over the age of 21, which were subsequently enacted in 2013; and
WHEREAS, Colorado State's Joint Budget Committee expects to collect approximately $184 million in
tax revenue from recreational marijuana in the first 18 months of legalized sale, and projects tax revenue
of about $610 million when looking at both recreational and medical marijuana sales for that same time
period. Washington state budget officials estimate the state will reap about $134 million in tax revenue
generated by marijuana sales in the 2015-2017 biennium; and

Page 10 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, Illinois is facing severe budget and financial constraints and lawmakers face the
undesirable choice of deciding between increased taxes or substantial service cuts, creating an intelligent,
practical framework of cannabis legalization, regulation and taxation can help address a myriad of
problems such as improved health and public safety, reduced criminal justice and jail costs, law
enforcement efficacy, black market drug displacement as well as increased revenue for education and
treatment protocols.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does herby
urge the Illinois General Assembly to form a task force to research, develop and introduce legislation to
legalize and regulate cannabis use in Illinois for adults; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of the Resolution be tendered to the Speaker of the
Illinois House of Representatives and the President of the Illinois Senate.
Effective Date: This resolution shall be effective upon adoption.

14-3192
Sponsored by:
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner and TONI
PRECKWINKLE, President, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, JOAN
PATRICIA MURPHY, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI and
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ENCOURAGING COOK COUNTY EMPLOYEES TO PARTICIPATE IN THE PACE
RIDESHARE PROGRAM
WHEREAS, Pace Suburban Bus has been designated as the Chicago region’s public ridesharing
administrator since 2006; and
WHEREAS, Pace launched PaceRideShare.com in 2008 to allow commuters to establish a profile and
find others with similar travel patterns in order to start a new carpool or vanpool or join one that already
exists; and
WHEREAS, over 15,000 users have activated a profile on PaceRideShare.com; and
WHEREAS, part of Pace’s RideShare program includes the Vanpool Incentive Program, one of the five
largest vanpool programs in the country; and
WHEREAS, Ridesharing contributes to an overall reduction in the number of cars on Chicago-area
roadways, thereby mitigating traffic congestion, air pollution and energy consumption; and
WHEREAS, Ridesharing saves money for commuters by reducing spending on fuel and vehicle wear
and tear; and
WHEREAS, Cook County employs over 22,000 individuals at a variety of worksites throughout the
county; and

Page 11 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, Cook County employees can have a significant impact on reducing traffic congestion and
improving the region’s air quality by participating in Pace’s RideShare program.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby support the Pace RideShare program and as a sign of its support for and partnership with Pace,
encourage county employees to consider actively participating in order to realize environmental benefits
and reduce commuting expenses; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to Pace Suburban
Bus in honor of its partnership with Cook County.

14-3211
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, Recorder of Deeds
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, PETER N.
SILVESTRI and ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE RECORDER OF DEEDS AND DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS TO IMPLEMENT A VETERANS’ AND MILITARY DISCOUNT CARD
PROGRAM
WHEREAS, though there is no way to adequately repay our nation’s military personnel for their service
and sacrifice, we can demonstrate our gratitude by forging a collaborative effort between businesses and
government that will connect veterans and active-duty military personnel with merchants who choose to
honor their military service through special discounts and promotions; and
WHEREAS, the discount card program, to be named after adoption of this resolution by mutual assent
of the relevant County departments and agencies including, but not limited to, the Bureau of
Administration, the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and the Cook County Recorder of Deeds’
Office, will provide veterans - those honorably discharged and other veterans generally discharged for
reasons other than discipline, misconduct, resignation in lieu of misconduct charges, unfitness for duty,
voluntary resignation, or court martial - and military personnel currently serving our country, with
discount cards that can be used at recruited merchants throughout Cook County who agree to honor the
card by providing holders with a discount on goods and services, or another appropriate money-saving
promotion of their choice; and
WHEREAS, the veterans’ and military discount card program will be mutually beneficial, helping
veterans save money with discounts on goods and services, and helping business owners to enjoy
increased traffic and sales in their stores; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Recorder of Deeds’ Office operates a Veterans Service Office, whose
main function is to record, safeguard and retrieve DD-214 military discharge records, which are
documents issued to servicemen or women upon completion of their service; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Recorder of Deeds’ Office will issue and produce the veteran
identification cards; the Cook County Recorder will use DD-214 military discharge records in
conjunction with photo identification such as a driver’s license, state ID card, federal military or Veterans

Page 12 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Affairs ID, or passport, to issue the card to veterans; in the case of active-duty military, a valid military
ID or other official government identification that denotes active-duty service, and photo ID if needed,
will be used; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Veterans Affairs Division within the Cook County Bureau of
Administration already has the outreach capabilities to let our servicemen and veterans know about this
program, and the Recorder’s Office will assist with promoting this and other Cook County veterans’
benefits; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Office of the Cook County Board
President may also disseminate information and assist in this program; and
WHEREAS, this program is dedicated to the nearly 225,000 veterans in Cook County, who represent
almost one-third of all Illinois veterans, and to the active-duty personnel currently serving, as well as to
those who have made the ultimate sacrifice; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that the Cook
County Veterans Affairs Division and the Cook County Recorder of Deeds honor those who serve this
great nation by implementing a veterans’ discount card program.

14-3179
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, JOAN PATRICIA
MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROCUREMENT CODE- CONTRACTS AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance, Article IV,
Procurement Code, Sec. 34-123 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec 34-123. No power to act for procurements or expenditures of $150,000.00 or more.
The CPO shall have the authority to approve Procurements, execute Contracts and execute Contract
amendments up to an amount less than $150,000.00 without Board approval; provided, however, that Board
approval shall be required for any Procurement of the same or similar supplies, goods, equipment or
services which would result in the aggregate amount of such Procurements from the same vendor by the
same Using Agency equaling or exceeding $150,000.00 in any fiscal year. Notwithstanding, the CPO shall
have the authority to execute Contract amendments on Contracts approved by the Board; provided,
however, that the total of such amendments does not increase the original amount of such Contract by more
than $150,000.00 during the term of the Contract. The "amount" of a Contract shall mean the maximum
amount payable under such Contract.
No Person has the power or authority to approve, authorize or execute a Procurement, a Contract, Contract
amendment or the expenditure of public money in the amount of $150,000.00 or more without approval of
the County Board, except in the following instances: the payment of public utility bills, the payment of rent
pursuant to the provisions of a lease previously approved by the County Board, payment of insurance
premiums, payment of any amount pursuant to the provisions of a Contract, the execution of which was
approved by the Board pursuant to this Section 34-123 above, or other Board-authorized transactions. Any

Page 13 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

contract requiring approval of the County Board shall list the top five lowest bids on the agenda item. In the
event that less than five bids have been received, all bids shall be disclosed. Any action in violation of this
section shall be null and void.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

14-2892
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department:

North Cook Intermediate Service Center/ROE5

Summary: Requesting the North Cook Intermediate Service Center (NCISC) be placed on the Cook
County Board of Commissioners' agenda for 5/21/2014 for the purpose of the three (3) Illinois School Code
Executive Directors having the opportunity to briefly address the County Board.

14-3153
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
POLL RATIFICATION
The following item was previously approved by poll on 5/9/2014.
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Economic Development
Grantee: Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Grantor: Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The purpose of this grant is to make large scale energy efficiency improvements at the Cook
County Department of Corrections and the Cook County Health and Hospital System John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital Campus.
Grant Amount: $2,000,000.00
Grant Period: 6/1/2013 - 5/31/2014
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

Page 14 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Summary: This project meets the objectives of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity’s Public Sector Electric Efficiency (PSEE) Program by implementing cost-effective energy
efficiency savings measures and creating energy savings. Implementing such measures will also enhance
economic development in the State of Illinois through job creation and business development.
COMMITTEE REPORTS

14-2973
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee Date: 5/1/2014

14-2974
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Labor
Committee Date: 5/1/2014

14-2975
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and Business and Economic Development
Committee Date: 5/1/2014

14-3095
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
Committee Date: 5/20/2014

14-2981
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation
Committee Date: 5/20/2014

Page 15 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

14-2980
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee Date: 5/20/2014

14-3060
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee Date: 5/21/2014

14-2979
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Rules and Administration
Committee Date: 5/21/2014

14-2978
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance
Committee Date: 5/21/2014

14-2977
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Zoning and Building
Committee Date: 5/21/2014

14-2976
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Roads and Bridges
Committee Date: 5/21/2014

Page 16 of 97

May 21, 2014

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR

14-2501
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Emergency Telephone Systems Board Internal Audit Report
Report Period: For the period ended 11/30/2012
Summary: The purpose of this report was to assess the internal control procedures and the accounting
records of the Emergency Telephone Systems Board.

14-2770
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Office of the Public Guardian Case Management System Audit Report
Report Period: For the period ended 4/24/2014
Summary: The purpose of this report was to assess the development, implementation, and internal
control procedures of the Public Guardian Case Management System.

14-3056
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Motor Vehicle Fuel Cards Audit Report
Report Period: For the period ending 11/30/2013
Summary: The purpose of the audit was to assess the internal control procedures as they pertain to
Motor Vehicle Fuel Cards.

Page 17 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3072
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: 69 West Washington Management Company, L.L.C.
Report Period: 12/1/2012 - 11/30/2013
Summary: The purpose of the audit was to evaluate the 69 West Washington Management Company,
L.L.C. compliance with certain terms of the Management Agreement.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

14-3159
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 3/20/2014 - 4/29/2014
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.

Page 18 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

BUREAU OF FINANCE
ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING

14-3173
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Director, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
REPORT
Department: ERP, Enterprise Resource Planning
Request: Refer to Committee on Technology
Report Title: ERP Project Status Report
Report Period: Ongoing
Summary: The Director of ERP will provide a comprehensive update to the Board of Commissioners via
the Technology Committee on the status of all ongoing ERP projects. The status update will reflect progress
being made towards achieving the goals of selecting and implementing a Countywide Enterprise Resource
Planning (ERP) platform, configuring and installing a biometric-based Time & Attendance system, and
upgrading and migrating the JD Edwards HR/Payroll system to a cloud hosting environment. This is the
first report of FY2014.
.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFCIE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICE

14-2946
Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Office of the Chief Procurement Officer
Vendor: EqualLevel, Inc., Rockville, Maryland
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Online access and paperless ordering system for countywide catalogue contracts
Current Contract Period: 6/5/2012 - 6/4/2014
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 6/5/2014 - 6/4/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $119,300.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): $107,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 8/15/2012, $12,300.00

Page 19 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

This Increase Requested: $72,250.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2014 $54,000.00, FY 2015 $18,250.00

Accounts: 030-441
Contract Number(s): 12-30-264
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
Bureau of Technology approves this item.
Summary: The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer requests to renew and increase Contract No.
12-30-264 with EqualLevel, Inc., Rockville, Maryland, to provide online access and paperless ordering
from countywide catalog contracts and annual maintenance fees. Since the 2012 launch there have been
over 8,300 orders placed via this online system. The site originally launched with 6 catalogs (vendors) and
has grown to 11 offering easier access for County agencies to make purchases from Countywide contracts.
This contract was awarded for a two year term with three (3) one (1) year renewal options. This request
represents the first one-year renewal option. .

14-2996
Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer
Vendor: Guy Brown Management, LLC, Brentwood, Tennessee
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Office Supplies
Original Contract Period: 4/6/2012 - 9/30/2013
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $2,923,065.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/03/2012, $2,775,065.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): (10/18/2013, contract extension
from 10/1/2013 through 3/31/2014); (5/14/2014, contract increase by $148,000.00 and contract extension
from 4/1/2014 through 9/30/2014)
This Increase Requested: $800,000.00

Page 20 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014 $800,000.00
Accounts: Various 350 Account
Contract Number(s): 12-84-066
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Summary: The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer requests to increase Contract No. 12-84-066
with Guy Brown Management, LLC to provide various office supplies to all County Agencies and
Departments. The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer is completing its evaluation process and will
recommend an award to the County Board for a new Countywide contract to provide various office supplies
to all County Agencies and Departments. This amendment to the Contract will allow all County Agencies
and Departments to continue to order office supplies until the new contract is awarded and fully
implemented.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT

14-1914
Presented by: DEANNA ZALAS, Director, Department of Risk Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Risk Management
Vendor: Dearborn National Life Insurance Company, Downers Grove, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Group Term Life Insurance Benefits for eligible Cook County employees.
Original Contract Period: 6/1/2010 - 5/31/2013
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$14,400,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/18/2010, $10,800,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/8/2013, Extension Period 6/1/2013 - 5/31/2014,
$3,600,000.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $3,368,623.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014 $1,684,311.50, FY 2015 $1,684,311.50

Page 21 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Accounts: 490/499/899-175
Contract Number(s): 10-41-80
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer Concurs
Summary: This contract was originally awarded as the result of a Request for Proposal (RFP) for a
three-year contract with two (2) one-year renewal options. This request represents the second (2nd)
one-year renewal option for the contract. This request is for both a time extension and dollar amount
increase. The expiration date of the current contract is 5/31/2014.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
COOK COUNTY LAW LIBRARY

14-2143
Presented by: MONTELL DAVENPORT, Executive Law Librarian, Cook County Law Library
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LAW LIBRARY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 50 LIBRARIES,
ARTICLE II LAW LIBRARY, Sec. 50-33 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE II. LAW LIBRARY
Sec. 50-33. Rules for use of library.
The borrowing rules and rules for the use of the County Law Library are as follows:
(1) Areas of access. The areas of the Library open to patrons are the main reading room and such shelf
areas as have not been kept locked. The conference rooms will be made available to patrons who register at
the library desk. Access to other material may be had by special arrangements with the Librarian.
(2)
(a) The Cook County Law Library (“Library”) is a public law library open to all for the purposes
of legal research. To ensure open, reliable access to legal information and knowledge in a timely
and efficient manner, the following rules shall be applicable to all users of the Library.
Use.
a.Not to be used in lieu of an office. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, the
1.Use of the Library’s facilities of the County Law Library are and services is limited to patrons
who are persons engaging in legal research, preparing a legal matter, or otherwise using the

Page 22 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

books and materials of the library. They Library’s legal information resources.
2.The Library and its facilities shall not be used in lieu of an office for the practice of law or any
other professional, business, or related activity.
b.Who may use. The facilities of this library shall be freely available to all licensed Illinois
attorneys, judges, and other public officers of this County, plaintiffs and defendants during the
times when this Law Library is open. Visiting attorneys may be allowed to use the material on the
premises.
c. Hours open. Other members of the public, who need to use the Law Library, shall be admitted to
the County Law Library on those days when the library is open and as directed in Subsection (14)c.
(3)Silence. Silence must be maintained in the reading rooms and shelf areas.
(4)Food and beverages. No food or beverage shall be brought into or consumed in the library.
(5)Defacing furniture or equipment. The scratching or marring or other defacing of the library
furniture or equipment is prohibited. Objects likely to damage furniture such as heavy
briefcases shall not be placed upon tables, chairs or other equipment.
(6)Conference rooms. Conference rooms may be used only by members of the judiciary or the
bar for conferences or dictation in connection with the use of library materials. They may be
used for periods of one hour and may be retained for additional one hour periods if not needed
by others.
(7)Paging for incoming calls. Paging for incoming calls is restricted to members of the bar
receiving calls from their offices.
(8)Mutilation or disfigurement of books, etc. The mutilation of books and materials or the
marking or disfiguration of their pages is prohibited.
(9)Rare books, etc. Rare books, microforms-reproductions, and other materials requesting
special handling must be used under the supervision of the library staff.
(10)Returning books to shelves. Patrons shall not return the books to the shelves but shall leave
them on the tables or study desks.
(11)Taking books, etc., from premises.
3. Persons using the Library shall not engage in activities while on Library premises that
violate federal, state or local law or regulation, including, but not limited to the unauthorized
practice of law.
4. The Copyright Law of the United States (Title 17 U.S. Code) governs the making of
photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted materials. The person using the Library is
liable for any infringement.
5. Solicitation of any type is prohibited.

Page 23 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

6. Food or beverages are not permitted in the Library with the exception of beverages in a
sealed, covered, or other spill-proof container. No beverage may be placed near any computer
terminal or photocopier.
7. For the courtesy of other patrons, quiet is expected throughout the Library, except where
necessary for purposes of bibliographic instruction and education. Conversation and use of
personal equipment shall not disrupt others. Cell phones must be set to “vibrate” or be turned
off while in the Library. Cell phones may only be used in designated areas.
8.Users may use laptop or notebook computers in the Library, provided their use does not
disrupt other users. Personal electronic devices including, but not limited to, copiers,
scanners, cameras, audio, and/or video recorders and VOIP telephones may not be used
without prior authorization.
9. Bringing excessive number or size of personal affects, e.g., bags, luggage, carts, into the
Library is prohibited.
10. The Library is not responsible, nor shall it have any liability with regards to, the personal
property that patrons bring into the Library. Personal property left unattended for an extended
period of time may be reported to and removed by building security.
11. Library patrons not using the Library’s facilities and services for researching or preparing a
legal matter or attending Library events may be asked to leave the Library.
12. Theft, abuse, vandalism, mutilation, marring, marking, defacing, or otherwise damaging
books, building, equipment, furniture, or other objects in the Library is prohibited.
13. Permission in advance is required to conduct Library tours or to use Library facilities for
classes.
14. Library materials and books shall not be taken from the premises unless they have been
charged out in the proper manner.
(12)

Briefcases, etc.; inspection.

15. All briefcases, packages, and other containers capable of holding library books and other
materialsouter garments are subject to inspection upon leaving the reading rooms of the
libraryat any time.
16. Loitering, sleeping, and lying on the Library floor or furniture is prohibited.
17. Appropriate attire, including shirts and shoes, must be worn in the Library.
(13) Violation of Library rules. Persons violating these rules or causing disturbances in the
library may be excluded from the library premises
18. Persons whose parcels or bodily hygiene or odor is so offensive as to constitute a nuisance,
cause damage to Library property, or disrupt others’ work shall be required to leave the
Library.

Page 24 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

19.Using Library restrooms for changing clothes, shaving, bathing or any purpose other than
for which restrooms are intended is prohibited.
20. Failure to comply with Library rules, the directives of staff, or to cooperate with staff in
their enforcement of these rules may result in the loss or suspension of Library privileges
including, but not limited to, temporary or permanent removal from the Library premises.
(14)Opening and closing hours.
a.The Library will be open:
1.From 8:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays
2.From 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Saturdays
(b) Hours of Operation for the Cook County Law Library.
1. Main Library located at the Richard J. Daley Center will be open Monday through Friday
from 8:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. except for the months of June, July and August when the Main
Library will be open from 8:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. On Saturday’s the Main Library will be open
from 9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. except for the months of June, July and August when the Main
Library will be open from 12:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.
2. Branch Libraries will be open on the following dates and times:
a. 2nd Municipal District Courthouse - Skokie: Monday-Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
b. 4th Municipal District Courthouse - Maywood: Monday-Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
c. 5th Municipal District Courthouse - Markham: Monday-Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
d. George N. Leighton Criminal Courthouse: Monday-Friday: 9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
b.3. The Library will be closed:
a. All Sundays
b. New Year's Day
c. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
d. Lincoln's Birthday
e. Washington's Birthday
f. Casimir Pulaski Day
g. Memorial Day
h. Independence Day
i. Labor Day
j. Columbus Day
k. Veterans' Veterans Day
l. Thanksgiving Day
m. Christmas Day
n. County authorized Shut Down Shutdown Days
c.4. The Executive Librarian shall have the authority to close the Library in an emergency
when in the Executive Librarian's judgment the circumstances warrant such closing and shall
record such closing. The Executive Law Librarian shall have the authority to amend the hours
of operation as directed by the County Board of Commissioners, in an emergency or as
otherwise may be required for operational purposes.

Page 25 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

(c) The Executive Librarian shall have the authority to implement policies and procedures
regarding Library services including, but not limited to the use of Library facilities, equipment, and
electronic resources, including the Internet. The Executive Librarian is further charged with the
authority to modify the hours of operation for the Library including the Main and Branch Libraries
during the months of June, July and August depending on usage.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION AND HIGHWAYS

14-2517
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type:

Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution

Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Pavement Preservation and Rehabilitation Program - North
Location: Various locations north of the Eisenhower Expressway (I-290)
Section: 14-PPRPN-01-PV
County Board District(s): 1, 2, 8-15 and 17
Centerline Mileage:

N/A

Fiscal Impact: $13,800,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement, as proposed, will consist of milling and resurfacing of the existing
bituminous pavement with hot-mix asphalt or diamond grinding existing concrete pavement and shall
include patching, drainage repairs and adjustments, sidewalk removal and ADA compliant ram
replacement, traffic control and protection, pavement marking, landscaping, engineering and other
necessary highway appurtenances.
This improvement is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide safe
efficient and sustainable highways.

Page 26 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2518
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type:

Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution

Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Pavement Preservation and Rehabilitation Program - South
Location: Various Locations south of the Eisenhower Expressway (I-290)
Section: 14-PPRPS-01-PV
County Board District(s): 2 - 7, 11, 16 and 17
Centerline Mileage:

N/A

Fiscal Impact: $13,800,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement, as proposed, will consist of milling and resurfacing of the existing
bituminous pavement with hot-mix asphalt or diamond grinding existing concrete pavement and shall
include patching, drainage repairs and adjustments, sidewalk removal and ADA compliant ramp
replacement, traffic control and protection, pavement marking, landscaping, engineering and other
necessary highway appurtenances.
This improvement is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide safe,
efficient and sustainable highways.

14-2519
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Repair of existing bridge
Location: Cottage Grove Avenue over North Creek (south of 183rd Street) in unincorporated Bloom
Township

Page 27 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Section: 14-W5906-04-BR
County Board District(s): 5
Centerline Mileage:

N/A

Fiscal Impact: $510,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement, as proposed, shall be repair of the existing bridge and shall include
removal and replacement of the existing expansion joints, approach slab repairs (partial and full depth),
structural repair of concrete, concrete deck (partial depth) and concrete median repairs, traffic control and
protection, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
This improvement is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe,
efficient and sustainable highway.

14-2520
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Repair of existing bridge
Location: Ridgeland Avenue over the Moline Expressway (I-80) in the Village of Tinley Park
Section: 14-W3706-03-BR
County Board District(s): 6
Centerline Mileage:

N/A

Fiscal Impact: $525,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement, as proposed, shall be repair of the existing bridge and shall include
removal and replacement of the existing joint strip seals, deck slab repairs, structural repair of concrete,
traffic control and protection, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
This improvement is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe,
efficient and sustainable highway.

Page 28 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2521
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Lake County
Stormwater Management Commission, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago and
the County of Kenosha, Wisconsin
Request:

Approval

Goods or Services: Upper Des Plaines River and Tributaries Amendment Number 1 to an Agreement
for a Feasibility Study
Section: 12-6HISP-36-ES
County Board Districts: 1, 9, 14, 15, 16, 17
Agreement Number: N/A
Agreement Period: 02/21/2002
Fiscal Impact: $64,106.19
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: First amendment to an Intergovernmental Agreement with the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Lake County Storm water Management
Commission, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago and the County of Kenosha,
Wisconsin wherein the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will be the lead agency to perform a Feasibility
Study to determine the feasibility of improvements to reduce flood damage, restore the environment,
enhance recreation and protect water quality in the Upper Des Plaines River Watershed. This
Amendment terminates the participation of Cook County in the Study, adds the MWRD as a participating
“Sponsor” to the Study and allows the MWRD to assume certain obligations of Cook County related to
the Study, and increases the estimated total Study costs. The Agreement is further amended to reflect
Cook County’s increased share of the Study as $1,412,105.60 (originally $1,086,125.00) and to reflect
Cook County’s remaining obligations under the Agreement and provides for payment from Cook County
to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the amount of $64,106.19 (determined as the balance of
$1,412,105.60 less previous cash payments and in-kind service credits totaling $1,186,771.41 less the
MWRD share of $161,228.00).
The original Agreement was approved by this Honorable Body on 2/21/2002 and this Amendment is
needed to terminate the participation of Cook County in the Study and officially add the MWRD as a
participating “Sponsor” to the Study which is appropriate given that the Illinois State Legislature
conveyed the general supervision of storm water management in Cook County to the MWRD on
11/17/2004.

Page 29 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

The Amendment has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s
Office.

14-2522
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Transportation and Highways Maintenance Resolution for the
Purchase of Hot Patch Materials in northern Maintenance Districts.
Section: 14-HBITN-08-GM
Maintenance District(s): 1 and 2
County Board District(s): 9, 13, 14, 15 and 17
Fiscal Impact: $200,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption, a
maintenance resolution appropriating funds for the purchase of bituminous hot patch materials for use in
northern County Highway maintenance operations for the two-year period ending 7/9/2016. This
improvement, as proposed, will consist of preparing and furnishing 2,080 tons of bituminous hot patch
materials to County maintenance forces in Maintenance Districts #1 and #2.
These materials are needed to enable the Department to protect the public investment in the highway
system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

14-2523
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Transportation and Highways Maintenance Resolution
purchase of Hot Patch Materials in southern Maintenance Districts.
Maintenance District(s): 3, 4
Section: 14-HBITS-08-GM

Page 30 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

County Board District(s): 6, 11, 16 and 17
Fiscal Impact: $175,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Summary: Department of Transportation and Highways Maintenance Resolution appropriating funds
for the purchase of bituminous hot patch materials for use in southern Department of Transportation and
Highway maintenance operations for the two-year period ending 7/9/2016. This improvement, as
proposed, will consist of preparing and furnishing 2,080 tons of bituminous hot patch materials to
County maintenance forces in Maintenance Districts #3 and #4.
These materials are needed to enable the Department to protect the public investment in the highway
system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

14-2524
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Department of Transportation and Highways Maintenance
Resolution appropriating funds for the for the purchase bituminous cold patch materials in northern
Maintenance Districts.
Section: 14-CBITN-08-GM
Maintenance District(s): 1, 2
County Board District(s): 9, 13, 14, 15 and 17
Fiscal Impact: $100,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: Department of Transportation and Highways Maintenance resolution appropriating funds
for the purchase of bituminous cold patch materials for use in northern Department of Transportation
and Highways maintenance operations for the two-year period ending 8/28/2016. This improvement, as
proposed, will consist of preparing and furnishing 650 tons of bituminous cold patch materials to County
maintenance forces in Maintenance Districts 1 and 2.
These materials are needed to enable the Department to protect the public investment in the highway
system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

Page 31 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2525
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Transportation and Highways Maintenance Resolution
appropriating funds for the purchase of Bituminous Cold Patch Materials for southern and central
Maintenance Districts.
Section: 14-CBITS-08-GM
Maintenance District(s): 3, 4, 5
County Board District(s):

4, 5, 6, 11, 16 and 17

Fiscal Impact: $100,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: Department of Transportation and Highways Maintenance Resolution appropriating funds
for the purchase of bituminous cold patch materials for use in southern and central County Department of
Transportation Highways maintenance operations for the two-year period ending 8/28/2016. This
improvement, as proposed, will consist of preparing and furnishing 650 tons of bituminous cold patch
materials to County maintenance forces in Maintenance Districts 3, 4 and 5.
These materials are needed to enable the Department to protect the public investment in the highway
system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

14-2526
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project Transportation and Highways Maintenance Resolution
appropriating funds for the purchase of furnishing 2,080 tons of bituminous hot patch materials in
County Maintenance District 5.
Section: 14-HBIT5-01-GM
Maintenance District(s): 5

Page 32 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

County Board District(s): 4, 5, 6
Fiscal Impact: $100,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement, as proposed, will consist of preparing and furnishing 2,080 tons of
bituminous hot patch materials to County maintenance forces in Maintenance District 5. This
Maintenance resolution will appropriate funds for the purchase of bituminous hot patch materials for use
in southeastern County Highway maintenance operations for the two-year period ending 7/9/2016
These materials are needed to enable the Department to protect the public investment in the highway
system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

14-2527
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Resolution appropriating funds for the improvement of Hintz Road at Wheeling Road in the
Village of Wheeling.
Location: Hintz Road at Wheeling Road in the Village of Wheeling
Section: 14-A5417-06-DR
County Board District(s): 14
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $500,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Resolution appropriating funds for the improvement of Hintz Road at Wheeling Road in the
Village of Wheeling. This improvement, as proposed, shall be the correction of a hazardous settlement
condition along the Hintz Road parkway and shall include pavement removal and replacement, concrete
curb and gutter removal and replacement, back fill special, geotechnical analysis, sidewalk removal and
replacement, storm sewer replacement, drainage additions and adjustments, landscaping, traffic control
and protection, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
This improvement is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe,
efficient and sustainable highway.

Page 33 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2528
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Motor Fuel Tax Project Appropriating funds for Preliminary Engineering and
Environmental Services.
Location: Various locations throughout Cook County
Section: 14-6PESV-01-ES
Fiscal Impact: $2,200,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds for Phase I and Part A preliminary engineering and environmental
services to be conducted by an outside consulting engineering firm for the research and investigations of
County projects at various locations throughout Cook County, and said services shall be supervised by
County Forces.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This appropriation is made
in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

14-2529
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Motor Fuel Tax Project Appropriating Resolution for Preliminary Engineering
Services.
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 14-6PESV-02-ES
Fiscal Impact: $2,200,000.00

Page 34 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds for Phase I and Part A preliminary engineering and environmental
services to be conducted by an outside consulting engineering firm for the research and investigations of
County projects at various locations throughout Cook County, and said services shall be supervised by
County Forces.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This appropriation is made
in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

14-2530
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Motor Fuel Tax Project Appropriating Resolution for Design Engineering
Services
Location: Various locations throughout Cook County
Section: 14-8DESV-01-EG
Fiscal Impact: $220,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds for Phase II and Part B design engineering services to be conducted by
an outside consulting engineering firm for the preparation of roadway design plans and contract
documents for the construction of County projects at various locations throughout Cook County, and said
services shall be supervised by County Forces.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This appropriation is made
in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

Page 35 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2531
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Motor Fuel Tax Project Appropriating Resolution for Design Engineering
Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 14-8DESV-02-EG
Fiscal Impact: $2,200,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds for Phase II and Part B design engineering services to be conducted by
an outside consulting engineering firm for the preparation of roadway design plans and contract
documents for the construction of County projects at various locations throughout Cook County, and said
services shall be supervised by County Forces.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective transportation facilities for the general public in Cook County. This appropriation is made
in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

14-2532
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Motor Fuel Tax Project Appropriating Resolution for a Freight Rail Study
Location: Central and South Cook County
Section: 14-6FRGT-01-ES
County Board Districts: 1-12 and 17

Page 36 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Fiscal Impact: $1,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: Appropriating funds for a Freight Rail Study to be conducted by an outside consulting
engineering firm to evaluate freight system needs and recommend vital improvements to accommodate
current and future freight traffic, ease congestion, and improve truck and rail freight traffic in Central and
South Cook County, and said services shall be supervised by County Forces.
These services are needed to enable the Department to continue its mission of providing safe, efficient
and effective transportation facilities for the general public and supports development of the regional
economy in Cook County. This appropriation is made in anticipation of a forthcoming contract to be
presented to your Honorable Body at a later date.

14-2533
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REQUEST TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request:
amended

Requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to approve as

Item Number: 14-0665
Previously Approved Date: 1/15/2014
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.
This Letter of Correction amends a previous communication dated 12/13/2013 and approved by your
Honorable Body on January 15, 2014 as Board Item #14-0665. The previous communication listed the
Section Number as 12-6HISP-35-ES and should have correctly listed the Section Number as
14-6FRGT-01-ES.
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): State of Illinois
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement between the State of Illinois
Department of
Transportation and Cook County, wherein Cook County will conduct a Freight Rail Study. Location:
Central and South Cook County

Page 37 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Section: 12 6HISP 36 ES 14-6FRGT-01-ES Federal Project: SPR PL 3000(50)
County Board District: 1 12, 17
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $600,000.00 ($480,000.00 to be reimbursed from the State of Illinois)
Accounts: 600 585 Account (Motor Fuel Tax Fund)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways submits for execution an Intergovernmental
Agreement between the State of Illinois Department of Transportation and Cook County, wherein Cook
County will conduct a Freight Rail Study. The purpose of the study is to identify existing freight rail
systems and corridors and recommend vital improvements in rail infrastructure, roads, grade crossings,
and rail to rail intersections to accommodate current and future freight traffic, ease congestion, and
improve truck and rail freight traffic in Central and South Cook County. The State will reimburse the
County for a maximum amount of $480,000.00 towards the study costs under Federal Project Number
SPR PL 3000(50) and the County of Cook will be responsible for the remaining balance, an estimated
$120,000.00.

14-2534
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Department of Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Progress Report
Report Period: Ending 3/31/2014
Summary: Submitting a copy of the Construction Bureau Progress report ending 3/31/2014.

14-2535
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Peter Baker & Son Company, Lake Bluff, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Pavement Rehabilitation

Page 38 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Location: Sanders Road, Techny Road to Lake Cook Road in the Village of Northbrook and
Unincorporated Northfield
Commissioner District: 14
Section: 13-W2445-07-RS
Contract Value: $3,244,464.77
Contract period: 5/21/2014 - 10/10/2014

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $3,244,464.77
Accounts:

71820010

Contract Number(s): 1455-13406
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Office concurs
Summary: This contract for improvement will consist of full depth patching, milling and resurfacing
the existing pavement using hot-mix asphalt materials, and includes drainage additions and adjustments,
removal and replacement of deteriorated median, concrete curb and gutter removal and replacement as
needed, ADA compliant sidewalk ramps, diamond grinding, traffic signal installation at Lindenwood
Lane, landscaping, traffic control and protection, pavement marking, signing, engineering and other
necessary highway appurtenances. Peter Baker & Son Company is the responsible, responsive and
qualified bidder and is recommended for contract award.

14-2543
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Alfred Benesch & Company Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Traffic Engineering Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 13-TCIDS-11-ES
Contract Value: $250,000.00
Contract period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options

Page 39 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Fiscal Impact: $250,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 1323-12478A
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Alfred Benesch & Company of Chicago, Illinois is recommended for a Traffic Engineering
Services Contract. Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code.
These services will consist of traffic counts and analysis, preparation of traffic volume projections, speed
studies, traffic signal control warrant studies, all-way stop control warrant studies, intersection design
studies, crash analysis studies, permit review assistance, and other engineering tasks and shall include
supervision by County Forces. The County will compensate the Consultant for its professional
engineering services the sum not to exceed $250,000.00 on a work-order basis.

14-2544
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Hey and Associates, Inc.,Volo, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Hydraulic Engineering, Surveying and Wetland Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County

Section: 13-6HESS-10-ES
Contract Value: $300,000.00
Contract period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $300,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 13-23-061

Page 40 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Hey and Associates, Inc. of Volo, Illinois is recommended for the Hydraulic Engineering,
Surveying and Wetland Services Contract. Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in
accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
These services will consist of providing hydraulic engineering, surveying and wetland related
engineering services, and draining engineering tasks at various locations at various locations
Countywide.
The County will compensate the Consultant for its professional engineering services the sum not to
exceed $300,000.00 on a work-order basis.

14-2545
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: HNTB Corporation of Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Land Acquisition Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 14-6LAND-02-ES
Contract Value: $635,700.00
Contract period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $635,700.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 1388-13061
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Page 41 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Summary: HNTB Corporation of Chicago, Illinois is recommended for the Land Acquisition Services
Contract. Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code.
These services will consist of providing land acquisition services that would include surveying to
reference highway centerlines to public landlines. Preparing legal descriptions, land surveying to locate
plat of highways, review of appraisals and negotiation work for highway projects is also included and
shall include supervision by County Forces. The County will compensate the Consultant for its
professional engineering services the sum not to exceed $635,700.00 on a work-order basis.

14-2546
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: American Surveying and Engineering, P.C., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Topographic Surveying Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 13-6SURV-11-ES

Contract Value: $350,000.00
Contract period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2016 with one (1) one (1) year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:

$350,000.00

Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Contract Number(s): 1318-12616
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: American Surveying and Engineering, P.C. of Chicago, Illinois is recommended for
Professional Topographic Surveying Services contract. Request for Qualifications (RFQ procedures were
followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
These services will consist of topographic services along various roadway sections, stream surveys,
ground topography. The scope includes land use determination, and other survey tasks and shall include
supervision by County forces. The County will compensate the consultant for its professional
engineering services the sum not to exceed $350,000.00 on a work-order basis.

Page 42 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2752
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Pavement Rehabilitation 2014
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 14-REHAB-01-PV
County Board District(s): Countywide
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $2,750,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement, as proposed, will consist of milling and resurfacing of the existing
bituminous pavement with hot-mix asphalt or diamond grinding existing concrete pavement and shall
include patching, concrete pavement replacement, drainage repairs and adjustments, sidewalk removal
and ADA compliant ramp replacement, traffic control and protection, pavement marking, landscaping,
engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
This improvement will rehabilitate various severely deteriorated roadway segments which suffered from
the unusually harsh winter weather and is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system
and provide safe, efficient and sustainable highways.
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINSTRATIVE HEARINGS

14-0092
Presented by: JOHN ALLEN, Director, Department of Administrative Hearings
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW OFFICERS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article IX - Administrative Hearings, Section 2-904 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
Follows:

Page 43 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Sec. 2-904. Administrative law officers - Powers and Duties.
(a) The Director, in consultation with the Chief Procurement Officer ("CPO") shall be charged with the
authority to issue an RFQ at least once every two years in order for the Director to evaluate and qualify
respondents to provide professional services as administrative law officers in the Department of
Administrative Hearings. The Director shall be responsible for creating and advertising the RFQ for
administrative law officers, and shall be responsible for evaluating and selecting the qualified respondents
to provide administrative law officer services. The Director shall notify the CPO of the qualified and
selected respondents to engage with for administrative law services; the CPO shall execute all contracts on
behalf of the Director with the qualified and selected respondents engaged to perform administrative law
officer services. Contracts with respondents previously qualified to provide administrative law officer
services may be extended by the CPO at the request of the Director. Contracts with persons providing
administrative law officers shall not exceed $50,000 on an annual basis. Each person contracted as an
administrative law officer appointed by the CPO on behalf of the Ddirector shall be an attorney admitted to
the practice of law in the State of Illinois who has not less than five years’ experience. Administrative law
officers shall have all powers necessary to conduct fair and impartial hearings including, but not limited to,
the power to:
(1) Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues;
(2) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(3) Hear testimony;
(4) Rule upon motions, objections, and the admissibility of evidence;
(5) Subject to the restrictions contained in Section 2-913 (relating to subpoenas), at the request of
any party or on the administrative law officer's own motion, subpoena the attendance of relevant
witnesses and the production of relevant books, records, or other information;
(6) Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits and evidence introduced at
the hearing;
(7) Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with this article, the rules adopted by the
department for the conduct of administrative hearings, or other applicable law;
(8) Discuss administrative adjudication proceedings with their supervisors;
(9) Issue a final order which includes findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(10)Impose penalties and fines and issue orders that are consistent with applicable code provisions
and assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation; provided, however, that in no
event shall an administrative law officer have the authority to: (i) impose a penalty of
imprisonment; or (ii) except in cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and collected by
the County, in which this limitation shall not apply, impose a fine in excess of that authorized by the
Code, exclusive of cost of enforcement; and
(11)In any case in which a party has sought review by the department of administrative hearings
of an order or determination of another County department, agency, board or commission, when
such review is authorized by this Code, assess costs upon affirming the order or determination.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 44 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2921
Presented by: JOHN ALLEN, Director, Department of Administrative Hearings
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
UNLAWFUL FILING OF A FRAUDULENT LIEN
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 58 OFFENSES AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS, ARTICLE II. - OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY RIGHTS,
SECTION 58-46 and 58-80 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended and enacted as follows:
Sec. 58-46. Administrative adjudication. Unlawful Filing of Fraudulent Lien, Judgment or
Encumbrance against Individuals and Organizations.
Violations of Article II, Sections 58-42 through 58-45 shall be adjudicated pursuant to Chapter 2,
Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
(a) Any person who knowingly or intentionally records or files or causes to be recorded or filed with the
Office of the Cook County Recorder of Deeds any document which alleges to be a judgment, lien or
encumbrance against a person or organization, not attached to real property, knowing that the theory upon
which the purported lien, judgment or encumbrance is based is not recognized as a legitimate legal theory
by the Courts of the United States, the State of Illinois, or any County within the State of Illinois, commits
the offense of filing a fraudulent lien or judgment.
b) Any person who commits the offense of filing of fraudulent judgment, lien or encumbrance shall be fined
$5,000.00 for the first offense. Any person who commits this offense a second time shall be fined
$7,500.00 or imprisoned for a period not to exceed thirty days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Any
person who commits this offense a third or subsequent time shall be fined $10,000 or imprisoned for a
period not to exceed sixty days or by both such fine and imprisonment for each offense.
(c) This Section does not apply to any attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois who, in
good faith, files a lien or judgment or encumbrance on behalf of his or her client and who, in good faith,
believes that the validity of the lien is supported by law or by a good faith argument for an extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law relating to the validity of the lien or judgment or encumbrance.
(d) For the purposes of this Section, the term “a judgment, lien or encumbrance” means a document
setting out a false claim of indebtedness or encumbrance which even if valid would not create a cloud on
the title of real property; but is likely to impair the subject of the document in the subject’s exercise of
commerce, and can be shown by extrinsic proof to be invalid or inapplicable to the subject.
Sec. 58-80. Administrative adjudication.
Violations of Article II shall be adjudicated pursuant to Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX,
Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect July 1, 2014.

Page 45 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING

14-2419
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Loyola University Medical Center
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 1
Township: Proviso
Property: 2160 S. First Avenue, Maywood, Illinois
Permit Number: 131918
Description: Remodel Office Space
Original Permit Fee: $35,683.76
Percent Waived: 10
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $3,568.38

14-2423
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Chicago Botanic Garden
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 13
Township: Northfield
Property: 1000 Lake Cook Road, Glencoe, Illinois
Permit Number: 140425
Description: Temporary Tent

Page 46 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Original Permit Fee: $735.00
Percent Waived: 5
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $36.75

14-2424
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Chicago Botanic Garden
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 13
Township: Northfield
Property: 1000 Lake Cook Road, Glencoe, Illinois
Permit Number: 140451
Description: Temporary Tents for Antiques & Garden Fair
Original Permit Fee: $17,881.39
Percent Waived:

5

Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $894.07

14-2537
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Loyola University Medical Center
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 1
Township: Proviso
Property: 2160 S. First Avenue, Maywood, Illinois

Page 47 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Permit Number: 131631
Description: Construct Hospital Building/Center for Translational Research & Education
Original Permit Fee: $304,548.67
Percent Waived: 10
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $30,454.87

14-2577
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Chicago Zoological Society - Brookfield Zoo
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 16
Township: Proviso
Property: 3300 S. Golf Road, Brookfield, Illinois
Permit Number: 122160
Description: Renovation of Scoops Toilet Room
Original Permit Fee: $9,445.76
Percent Waived: NO FEE
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $9,445.76

14-2775
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Chicago Zoological Society Brookfield Zoo
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 16

Page 48 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Township: Proviso
Property: 3300 S. Golf Road, Brookfield, Illinois
Permit Number: 140500
Description: 2014 Whirl Tent
Original Permit Fee: $11,532.48
Percent Waived: 5
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $576.62

14-2846
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Chicago Zoological Society
Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 16
Township: Proviso
Property: 3300 S. Golf Road, Brookfield, Illinois
Permit Number: 122155
Description: Renovation of Great Bear Toilet Rooms
Original Permit Fee: $9,475.13
Percent Waived: NO FEE
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $9,475.13

14-3107
Presented by: TIMOTHY P. BLEUHER, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
PROPOSED REDUCED FEE PERMIT
Department: Building and Zoning
Other Part(ies): Forest Preserves of Cook County

Page 49 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Request: Approval of a fee waiver request
County District: 15
Township: Elk Grove
Property: Busse Grove #32, Elk Grove Village, Illinois
Permit Number: 131956
Description: Provide Access to Picnic Grove
Original Permit Fee: $10,279.20
Percent Waived: 10
Amount Waived and Fiscal Impact: $1,027.92
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

14-2308
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: RADA Architects Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Architectural and Design Services
Contract Value: $158,800.67
Contract period: 6/1/2014 -12/31/2015
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $158,800.67
Accounts: County Physical Plant - 20000
Contract Number(s): 1418-13262
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Page 50 of 97

May 21, 2014

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Summary: The Renovation project of the Public Defender’s offices located at the Criminal Courts
Administration Building, 2650 S. California Avenue, is to upgrade the physical environment to support
the operational and staffing requirements for the Public Defender’s office using County space standards.
This space will become the template for all future build-outs countywide; an outcome being adopted
standardized furnishing lines, flooring materials and colors, wall paint colors, fixtures and equipment.

14-2787
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy; SHANNON E.
ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer
JOB ORDER CONTRACT
Department:

Office of Capital Planning and Policy

Summary:
The Office of Capital Planning and Policy, as authorized by the Cook County Chief
Procurement Officer, plans to participate in the Cook County’s Job Order Contract (JOC) program to
complete the (4) capital project listed below. JOC is a quantity based procurement process that allows
facility owners to complete a multitude of repair/maintenance and construction projects with a single,
competitively bid contract. The JOC process generally involves first selecting a pool of potential
contractors through a competitive procurement process, and then identifying projects for such selected
contractors.
The County has already completed a JOC competitive procurement process, and it has created the pool of
generated contractors to perform certain projects generally associated with Maintenance, repairs,
replacement and routine work.
The JOC program has an administrative component managed by the Gordian Group. The Gordian Group
maintains an area price book, which captures the prices for specific construction work items within this
region. JOC contractors bid against the prices included in the price book. The cost, therefore, of any work
performed by the contractor is a contractor markup form the price book. The Gordian Group would
receive 5% administrative fee from Cook County based on the total project cost of the work. The Gordian
Group will manage the JOC process and will verify that all proposals and work are compliant with the terms
and conditions outlined in the JOC contract within the County. The Office of Capital Planning and Policy,
proposes to assign the projects listed below to the Gordian Group to share with participating JOC
contractors.
Project Descriptions:
Division I /Division VII Chilled Water Coil Replacement - Division I/Division VII chilled water coils are
failing and need to be replaced. There are a total of 20 chilled water coils that need to be replaced. The
coils are the size of a small car and will need to be lifted onto the roof of the buildings with a crane. The
penthouse wall will need to be opened to allow these water coils to be lifted onto the roof and into the
building.
JTDC Digital Video Data Center - The intent of this project is to install a new data center to support the
digital video and RFID rounds tracking systems. The new data center will provide adequate space for server
cabinets and include installation of new mechanical, electrical and fire suppression systems. JTDC Ceiling
Replacement - JTDC ceiling replacements will ensure the safety of the juveniles housed at the detention
center. In order to comply with the federal court decree and the Illinois Department of Corrections
building code, we will be installing steel panel ceilings and flush mounted light fixtures to reduce the risk of

Page 51 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

a hanging hazard within the living units.
Skokie Entrance and Exterior Lighting Improvements - The existing store front entrances at the Skokie
courthouse need to be replaced/refurbished in order to accommodate the plant to segregate the judges from
the public while entering and existing the Courthouse. ADA improvements will also be made at these new
entrances to ensure that all persons with disabilities can gain proper access to the Courthouse. This project
will also include the installation of new exterior lighting to increase the visibility of people traffic from the
parking structure to the new entrances.
Budgets:
Division I/Division VII Chilled Water Coil Replacement
JTDC Digital Video Data Center
JTDC Ceiling Replacement
Skokie Entrance and Exterior Lighting Improvements
TOTAL

$380,000.00
$450,000.00
$435,000.00
$300,000.00
$1,565,000,00

Schedule: 1 month  3 months  3 months  3 months
Account(s): County Physical Plant – 20000
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

14-2942
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MASTERPIECE ACQUISITIONS, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Masterpiece Acquisitions, LLC and Resolution No. 51-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 575 Lively Blvd., Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook
County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-27-202-051-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market

Page 52 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

alue for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned
for 21 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create one (1) to three (3) full-time jobs;
retain; 18 full-time jobs and create seven (7) to 10 construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; there has been a purchased for value and the subject
property is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 575
Lively Blvd., Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2943
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ELLA HOLDINGS LLC TONNE SERIES OR ITS NOMINEE 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST

Page 53 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Ella
Holdings LLC Tonne Series or Its Nominee and Resolution No. 61-13 from the Village of Elk Grove
Village for an abandoned industrial facility located at 1845 Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook
County, Illinois, Cook County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-300-052-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for seven (7) months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present;
and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create five (5) to twenty (20) full-time
jobs; retain five (5) to 10 full-time jobs and create 10 to 30 construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the
Class 6b; and is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 1845
Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances

Page 54 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2945
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
2000 HAWTHORNE AVENUE, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from 2000
Hawthorne Avenue, LLC and Resolution No. 57-13 from the Village of Melrose Park for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 2000-2006 Hawthorne Avenue, Melrose Park,, Cook County, Illinois, Cook
County District 16, Permanent Index Number 12-33-400-090-0000 and 12-33-400-091-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the
seller has no direct financial interest; and
.
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market
value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for one (1) month at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and

Page 55 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create two (2) full-time jobs, one (1)
part-time jobs; retain 40 full-time jobs and three (3) part-time jobs and create three (3) to four (4)
construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Melrose Park states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on
this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property
has been vacant for less than 24 months; there has been a purchase for value; and subject property is in
need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class 6b
incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 2000-2006
Hawthorne Avenue, Melrose Park, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2955
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PAUL FAMILY REAL ESTATE VENTURE, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Paul
Family Real Estate Venture, LLC and Resolution No. 15-12 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 950 Pratt Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois,
Cook County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-305-036-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

Page 56 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b ; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b ; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 24 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated two (2) - three (3) full-time jobs; retain 10-12
full-time jobs and create 25-30 construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for over 24 months, there has been no purchase for value and the subject
property is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 950
Pratt Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b ; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-3078
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and JOAN
PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ADVANCE WELDING SERVICES, LLC CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility; and

Page 57 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Advance
Welding Services, LLC and Resolution No. 2012-R-14 from the Village of South Chicago Heights for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 3301 East End Avenue, South Chicago Heights, Cook County,
Illinois, Cook County District 6, Permanent Index Numbers 32-33-101-031-0000.
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the
seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the date
that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the
date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be assessed at 10% of the market value
for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of under 24 months and purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 12 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated six (6) new full-time jobs; four (4) new part-time
jobs and five (5) construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of South Chicago Heights states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months and there has been a purchase for value; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County
of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 3301 East End
Avenue, South Chicago Heights Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

Page 58 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION

14-3024
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department:
Request:
Landlord:
Tenant:
Location:

Real Estate Management

Approval of a Sixth Amendment to Lease
County of Cook
Yong H. Park and Eun Young Shin, d/b/a Ace Shoe Clinic
69 West Washington Street, Lower Level Pedway, Suite LL-18

Term/Extension Period: 9/1/2014 - 8/31/2017
Space Occupied: 299 square feet
Monthly Rent: Monthly $398.67 / Annual $4,784.00
expenses)

(plus $3.00 per sq. ft. annually for operating

Leasehold Taxes: Tenant pays leasehold taxes for the premises in addition to rent and operating expenses.
Fiscal Impact:
Accounts:

Revenue Generating

N/A

Option to Renew:
Termination:

N/A

By Landlord, under certain conditions

Utilities Included:

Tenant pays for electricity metered to Premises

Summary:
The Tenant shall continue to use and occupy the premises as a retail shop, providing
shoeshine and shoe repair services, sale of related goods and key copying, and for no other use or purpose.

14-3025
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Third Amendment to Lease
Landlord: County of Cook

Page 59 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Tenant: Boris Persky, d/b/a Around the Clock Repairs
Location: 69 West Washington Street, Lower Level Pedway, Suite LL-15
Term/Extension Period: 10/1/2014 - 9/30/2017
Space Occupied: 540 square feet
Monthly Rent: Monthly $1,035.00 / Annual $12,420.00 (plus $3.00 per sq. ft. annually for operating
expenses)
Leasehold Taxes:
expenses

Tenant pays leasehold taxes for the premises in addition to rent and operating

Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating
Accounts:

N/A

Option to Renew:

N/A

Termination: By Tenant with 90 day prior written notice
Utilities Included: Tenant pays for electricity metered to Premises
Summary:
Tenant, shall continue to occupy the Premises for the operation of the “Around the Clock
Repairs” shop and for no other purpose

14-3026
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE
Department:

Real Estate Management

Other Part(ies): Hispanic Housing Development Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Action: Requesting authorization to exercise an option to purchase real estate contained in a Lease
Agreement between the County of Cook, as Tenant, and the Hispanic Housing Development Corporation
(HHDC), as Landlord which houses the Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center of CCHHS’ Ambulatory and
Community Health Network of Cook County (ACHN).
Section: N/A
Parcel(s): 16-27-218-022-0000
Location: 2424 S. Pulaski, Chicago, Illinois.
Board District: 7
Fiscal Impact: $125,000.00 plus Purchaser’s share of customary closing costs and title charges up to
$15,000.00

Page 60 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Accounts: 728 - 560 Account
Summary: Under the terms of the lease, the County has the option to purchase the building at the end of
the lease term for $125,000 by giving Landlord written notice of County’s intent not later than 6/1/2014.
By exercising the option, the County and CCHHS would save the annual base rent and real estate taxes
estimated to be $130,000 annually. An inspection has indicated that certain repairs and upgrades to the
property will be necessary, at a cost estimated to be in the range of $250,000, however, these
improvement costs can be spread out over several years.
If the Board approves the proposed acquisition, this approval shall include the following authorization:
(i) For the Real Estate Director to execute any and all notices under the Lease; and
(ii) For the President or the Real Estate Director to execute any and all documents and instruments and to
take such other action as may be necessary to effectuate the purchase of 2424 S. Pulaski, Chicago,
Illinois; and
(iii) For the Comptroller to pay the Purchase Price of $125,000 and Purchaser’s share of customary closing
costs and title charges up to $15,000; and
(iv) For the Comptroller to pay any real estate taxes accruing prior to the approval of an exemption by the
Illinois Department of Revenue, at which time such taxes should be refunded to the County.
The CCHHS Board of Directors approved the exercise of this option and requested the Cook County
Board of Commissioners approve this action at their meeting on 4/25/2014
DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

14-3050
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Interim Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Facilities Management
Request: Transfer approval
Reason: To allow DFM to do an amendment to increase the Hertz Rental Contract 1330-13054
From Account(s): 200-450, $50,000.00
To Account(s): 200-638, $50,000.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $50,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
On 4/21/2014 it became apparent that DFM would need additional funding in this account. The balance
in account 638 was $6,936.00.

Page 61 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
Account 450 was chosen because of the amount of funds that had not been encumbered.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
This account was chosen because of the unobligated amount in the repair building and industrial
supplies.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

14-2711
Presented by: MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD AMENDMENT
Department: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantee: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantor: Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA)
Request: Authorization to Increase
Purpose: The Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) program provides financial
assistance with day to day costs associated with operating an emergency management agency, to include
personnel costs, office supplies, and travel expenses related to emergency management activities.
Supplemental Grant Amount: $56,844.09
Grant Period: 10/1/2012 - 9/30/2013
Extension Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: 6951201
Date of Previous Board Authorization for Grant: 9/11/2013
Previous Grant Amount: $458,733.85

Page 62 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: Cook County will be receiving supplemental EMPG funding from IEMA this year, as it has
in previous years. The EMPG program provides financial assistance to state and local governments for
the development of effective, integrated emergency management organizations in order to perform
administrative activities and prepare for any natural or technological emergency or disaster in accordance
with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations including the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950,
as amended, and the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.

14-3068
Presented by: MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantee: Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Grantor: Chicago Police Department
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The purpose of this grant is to support training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual
support and criminal justice information systems related to law enforcement programs, prosecution and
court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and community corrections programs,
drug treatment programs; planning, and evaluation and technology improvement programs.
Grant Amount: $553,650.00
Grant Period: 10/1/2014 - 9/30/2017
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program will support law enforcement, prosecution and
court programs, education and prevention programs, community corrections and corrections programs, as
well as drug treatment programs for Cook County Government departments as well as our local partners.

Page 63 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3077
Presented by: MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Vendor: Everbridge, Inc., Glendale, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Mass Notification System
Contract Value: $2,919,000.00
Contract period: 6/1/2014 - 5/31/2017 with two (2) one (1) year extension options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: None - Grant Funded Amount: $2,919,000.00
Accounts: 769-260 Account
Contract Number(s): 1350-12923
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The Cook County Department of Homeland Security is requesting for the Chief
Procurement Office to enter into contract with Everbridge, Inc. for the purchase of a Mass Notification
System. The Mass Notification System will be used for various notifications to Cook County employees,
first responders and also residents throughout the County. The system will be tailored to reach both large
scale and specific groups of subscribers with the most critical real-time information.

14-3083
Presented by: MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Vendor: Bus and Truck of Chicago, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Vehicle Parts and Repair Services
Original Contract Period: 10/2/2012 - 2/4/2015

Page 64 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $703,300.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 10/2/2012, $703,300.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $600,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: None - Grant Funded Amount: $600,000.00
Accounts: 769-444
Contract Number(s): 12-30-336
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management (DHSEM) is
requesting an increase to Contract 12-30-336 with Bus and Truck of Chicago, Inc. for Vehicle Parts and
Repair Services. This contract will be used for painting and related repair services for the DHSEM’s
Emergency Response vehicles.
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

14-3080
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller; TRACEY LADNER, Chief, Bureau of
Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resources Biweekly Activity Reports for Pay Periods 5, 6 and 7
Report Period: Pay Period 5: 2/9/2014 - 2/22/2014, Pay Period 6: 2/23/2014 - 3/8/2014 and Pay Period
7: 3/9/2014 - 3/22/2014.
Summary: Submitting the Human Resources Activity Reports Covering the pay periods listed above.

Page 65 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3085
Presented by: TRACEY LADNER, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SEIU LOCAL 73 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS - COOK COUNTY HEALTH
AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2008 through November
30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, have been
negotiated between the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73 representing
Technologists, Technicians, Service & Maintenance, and Healthcare Professional employees at Cook
County Health Facilities; and
WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and are
reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreements negotiated between
the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby refer to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor for review an recommendation the Collective
Bargaining Agreements between the County of Cook and the Service Employees International Union
(SEIU) Local 73.
BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

14-1411
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Cook County Bureau of Technology
Request: Refer to the Committee on Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 3/1/2014 - 5/31/2014
Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated
Cook County Criminal Justice System on a quarterly basis beginning with the first quarter of the
FY2014. This is the second quarterly report of FY2014.

Page 66 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3051
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s):

Bureau of Technology

Vendor: Iron Mountain Information Management, LLC, Boston, Massachusetts
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute.
Good(s) or Service(s): Off-Site Data Storage of Back-Up and Recovery Data
Contract Value: $341,014.00
Contract period:

2/1/2014 - 1/31/2017, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2014: $93,788.33; FY2015: $112,546.00; FY2016:
$115,359.33; FY2017: $19,320.34
Accounts:

490-441

Contract Number(s): 1441-13486
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Under the proposed contract, Iron Mountain will continue to manage the County’s data
storage tapes in a secure facility. Specifically, Iron Mountain will provide tape pickup using secure
containers, vault storage, and emergency data retrieval services to Offices under the President, Chief
Judge, Sheriff, States Attorney, Clerk of the Circuit Court, County Clerk, Treasurer, Assessor, and Cook
County Health and Hospitals.
The proposed contract enables Cook County to safely store digital tapes containing vital records from
server-based, midrange, and mainframe computers. These tapes must be stored off-site and made
available for disaster recovery, regulatory compliance, and to retrieve accidentally deleted data.
The pricing in the proposed agreement, which is 10% lower than what Cook County paid during 2013, is
referenced against a competitively bid contract with Maricopa County, Arizona for similar services. The
Iron Mountain contract allows for a proportionate reduction in monthly charges as the County replaces
tape with newer data retention technologies.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
The Iron Mountain Management LLC, was previously awarded a contract by Maricopa County Arizona,
through a competitive Request for Proposal process. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement
effort.

Page 67 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-3055
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Information Technology Professional Services
Contract Value: $815,000.00
Contract period: 5/21/2014 - 5/20/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014: $350,000.00, FY 2015: $275,000.00; FY 2016:
$100,000.00; FY2017: $90,000.00
Accounts: 71700016/260
Contract Number(s): 1490-13636
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Under the proposed contract, Microsoft will assist BOT with projects related to
infrastructure and support of other agencies and elected officials, which are: Mail Migration, Server
Virtualization, On/Off-boarding automation, Disaster Recovery - secondary sites, Microsoft Certificate
Services, Server/Workstation Security Enhancements, Mobile Device Management (MDM), SharePoint
Modifications, DirectAccess (to replace traditional VPN).
Microsoft Corporation has been actively involved in several current projects which began as part of its
2011-2014 contract with Cook County. These projects all contain a core infrastructure of
Microsoft-based products. Microsoft is the only vendor that can provide direct access to Microsoft
product support teams, source code for current and future products, and software developers for support
of our installed products.

Page 68 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION

14-2404
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING BANK SIGNATURES
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize departments
and offices to open and maintain checking accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized signers on the accounts
maintained for the Adult Probation Department of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the two checking accounts at Harris Bank be updated;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons are authorized to sign checks:
1.Lavone Haywood
2.James Anderson
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following name as signer on the account be deleted:
1.Jesús Reyes
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY

14-2193
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Vendor: Chicago Bar Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Services
Contract Value: $477,402.50
Contract period: 9/1/2014 - 8/31/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact

FY 2014 - $38,505.38, FY 2015 - $155,288.87, FY 2016 -

Page 69 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

$160,390.75, FY 2017 - $123,217.50
Accounts: 300-260
Contract Number(s): 1353-13117
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Since 2008, the Chicago Bar Foundation has managed operations for the Circuit Court’s
Legal Advice Desk for Eviction Court Defendants under Contract No. 11-41-19, which is scheduled to
expire on 9/1/2014. Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures were followed in accordance with Cook
County’s Procurement Code. In 2013, the Chief Procurement Officer issued a RFP for these services for
the Office of the Chief Judge. The CBF was the sole responder to the RFP. The CBF is recommended for
the contract based on its qualifications and extensive experience providing help desk services not only
for the Circuit Court of Cook County, but for the federal court and the City of Chicago as well.
The Legal Advice Desk for Eviction Court Defendants is located on the 6th floor of the Richard J. Daley
Center. The role of the CBF is to oversee and coordinate volunteer lawyers who, in conjunction with
court staff, work to ensure litigants find available legal assistance. The CBF works with following two
local legal aid organizations to link pro-se litigants to attorneys who provide pro bono legal assistance:
Coordinated Advice & Referral Programs for Legal Services and Chicago Legal Clinic, Inc. Assistance
may include in-court representation in appropriate matters.
Benefits of this contract are that thousands of pro-se litigants with eviction cases pending in the First
Municipal District (Chicago) are receiving free legal assistance to better prepare them for their court
appearances. This contributes to the fair, impartial and efficient administration of justice.

14-2688
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Vendor: Ace Coffee Bar Inc., Streamwood, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Operation of the public cafeteria and food services for impaneled jurors at the
George N. Leighton Criminal Division Courthouse.
Contract Value: $943,780.00, or $733,660.60 net of license fees. A monthly license fee for the use of
the cafeteria space provides the county $210,119.40 in revenue over the three (3) year term of this
contract.
Contract period: 8/17/2014 - 8/16/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options.

Page 70 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Expense: FY 2014 - $91,756.40, FY 2015 - $314,593.33, FY
2016 - $314,593.33, FY 2017 - $222,836.94. Revenue: FY 2014 - $19,827.50, FY 2015 - $68,574.83, FY
2016 - $70,632.07, FY 2017 - $51,085.00.
Accounts: 310-223 Expense Account; 1808- 470040 Revenue Account.
Contract Number(s): 1353-13213
Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The operation of the public cafeteria and the delivery of food services to impaneled jurors at
the George N. Leighton Criminal Division Courthouse are currently provided by Ace Coffee Bar Inc., of
Streamwood, Illinois (Ace), under Contract No. 11-84-01. This contract is scheduled to expire on
8/16/2014. On 3/19/2014, the Chief Procurement Officer solicited bids for the operation of the cafeteria
and jury food services for the next three years. Formal competitive bid procedures were followed in
accordance with Cook County’s Procurement Code. Ace Coffee Bar Inc. was the only responsive and
responsible bidder meeting the solicitation requirements. The net cost of the proposed contract is
$59,149.00 less than the current contract.

14-2750
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Vendor: Presence Behavioral Health, Broadview, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Mental Health Counseling, Aftercare and Referral Services.
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2010-9/30/2012
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 2/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $132,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 10/5/2010, $120,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/11/2013, 10/1/2013 - 01/31/2014
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/27/2012, $12,000.00, 10/1/2012 2/28/2013; 2/1/2013, 3/1/2013 - 9/30/2013
This Increase Requested: $50,000.00

Page 71 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014: $45,455.00, FY 2015: $4,545.00.
Accounts: 310-260
Contract Number(s):

10-41-163

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: A contract extension and increase are requested to authorize Presence Behavioral Health to
continue the provision of services while a new Request For Proposal (RFP) is conducted. The Office of
the Chief Procurement Officer issued an RFP in August 2013. The Circuit Court has requested to reissue
the RFP because the court and the community would be better served by contracting with more than one
community-based vendor. Presence Behavioral Health Program participants are offenders who are
diverted from incarceration. Services cover client care management, as well as mental health, psychiatric
and substance abuse interventions.
This amendment to contract no. 10-41-163 will continue a variety of services to adult offenders
participating in the Circuit Court of Cook County’s six adult mental health treatment courts who are
diverted from incarceration. These services are client care management, which includes screening and
clinical assessments, case planning, referral to substance use and mental health treatment services and
intensive case management services.
The Circuit Court’s Specialty/Treatment Court Program operates a network of 19 courts in Chicago and
across suburban Cook County which are dedicated to providing mental health treatment, veterans
support, drug treatment and support to persons charged with felony prostitution. The program helps low
level criminal defendants who suffer from an underlying mental health, social or substance abuse
problem from becoming repeat offenders. The hallmark of the program is intensive judicial supervision
and the delivery of treatment and services from community-based sources, such as Presence which has
provided services to the Circuit Court's Specialty/Treatment Courts Program since 2010.

14-2754
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Vendor: TASC, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s):

Case Management and Outreach Services.

Original Contract Period: 10/1/2010 - 2/28/2013
Proposed Contract Period Extension:

Extension period: 6/1/2014 - 12/31/2014.

Page 72 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $433,875.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement):

10/5/2010, $378,875.00

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

9/11/2013, 10/1/2013 - 1/31/2014.

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 2/1/2013, 3/1/2013 - 9/30/2013;
5/13/2014, 2/1/2014 - 5/31/2014, $55,000.
This Increase Requested: $75,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2014: $64,285.00, FY 2015: $10,715.00.

Accounts: 310-260
Contract Number(s): 10-41-162
Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary:
A contract extension and increase are requested to authorize TASC to continue the
provision of services while a new RFP is conducted. The Office of the Chief Procurement Officer
issued an RFP in August 2013. The Circuit Court has requested to reissue the RFP because the court and
the community would be better served by contracting with more than one community-based vendor.
Program participants are offenders who are diverted from incarceration. Services cover client care
management.
The Circuit Court’s Specialty/Treatment Court Program operates a network of 19 courts in Chicago and
across suburban Cook County which are dedicated to providing mental health treatment, veterans
support, drug treatment and support to persons charged with felony prostitution. The program helps low
level criminal defendants who suffer from an underlying mental health, social or substance abuse
problem from becoming repeat offenders. The hallmark of the program is intensive judicial supervision
and the delivery of treatment and services from community-based sources, such as TASC which has
provided patient care management services to the Circuit Court's Specialty/Treatment Courts Program
since 2010.

14-2777
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantee: Office of the Chief Judge
Grantor: Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services
Request: Authorization to accept grant

Page 73 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Purpose: The grant funds mediation and conciliation services provided through the Access and
Visitation Program of the Domestic Relations Division. This program is operated by the court’s Family
Mediation Services office under the auspices of the Office of the Chief Judge.
Grant Amount: $94,705.00
Grant Period: 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2015
Fiscal Impact: $41,588.00 (FY2014, $17,330.00 and FY2015, $24,258.00)
Accounts: 310-818
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: In situations where noncustodial parents were never married to custodial parents, a judge
may determine it is in the best interest of the child to order the parties to participate in the program,
which facilitates the noncustodial parents’ access to and visitation with their children.

14-2779
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Action: Approval of payment, pursuant to Circuit Court of Cook County General Administrative Order
2014-04
Payee: Center for Conflict Resolution, Chicago Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Dispute resolution services
Fiscal Impact: $195,510.50
Accounts: 531-260
Contract Number(s): N/A
Summary:
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER NO. 2014-04
SUBJECT: ILLINOIS NOT-FOR-PROFIT DISPUTE RESOLUTION ACT
Pursuant to the Illinois Not-For-Profit Dispute Resolution Act (710 ILCS 20/1 et seq.), the Clerk of
the Circuit Court of Cook County has collected fees from civil filings for disbursement to the Dispute
Resolution Centers which qualify under said Act and General Order 19 of the Circuit Court of Cook

Page 74 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

County. Fees collected and available for disbursement from this Fund for the year 2013 total
$195,510.50.
Upon review of applications received for funds collected in 2013, the sole qualifying applicant under
the requirements set forth in said Act and General Order 19 of the Circuit Court of Cook County was
found to be the Center for Conflict Resolution. It is eligible for the maximum amount allowable for
disbursement to any Dispute Resolution Center in a given year of $200,000.00.

Therefore, it is hereby ordered that the amount of $195,510.50, representing the fees collected for
the year 2013, shall be disbursed to the Center for Conflict Resolution.
Dated this 30th day of April 2014. This order shall be spread upon the records of this Court and
published.
ENTERED:
______________________________________
Timothy C. Evans
Chief Judge
Circuit Court of Cook County

14-2893
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department:
Grantee:

Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department, Circuit Court of Cook County

Circuit Court of Cook County

Grantor: Federal Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant (JABG) through the Illinois
Department of Human Services
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: This grant will supplement the Circuit Court’s pre-employment program for minors under the
direction of the Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department. The pre-employment program helps
youth, ages 16 to 18, obtain employment skills. The grant will fund stipends for youth who complete the
program and transportation assistance. It is expected that the program will serve about 40 minors in 2014.
Grant Amount: $36,444.00
Grant Period: 12/1/2013 - 6/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: $4,049.00
Accounts: 326-819
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

Page 75 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Summary: The Circuit Court of Cook County is requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the
amount of $36,444.00 from the Illinois Department of Human Services in connection with the Juvenile
Accountability Incentive Block Grant (JABG), Juvenile Pre-Employment Program. The program is
administered by the Circuit Court’s Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department. The target
population is minors between the ages 16 and 18. The grant will fund stipends for youth who complete
the program which consists of five-weeks of job readiness training followed by a ten-week internship.
Since 2010, 300 minors have participated in the program, and it is expected about 40 minors will receive
services in 2014.

14-2941
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantee: Circuit Court of Cook County
Grantor: Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The purpose of Parentage and Child Support Court is to help ensure that children have two
loving and supportive parents who are not caught in the middle of parental hostility or court proceedings,
that the children receive financial support, and that court assistance is available if needed to assist parents
so that the children may grow up having a positive role model relating to parents and families.
Grant Amount: $1,526,737.00
Grant Period: 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2015
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences: The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal
impact on Cook County, if any.
Summary: This grant funds the salaries of eight (8) administrative hearing officers and nine (9) support
staff. Each administrative hearing officer is paired with a courtroom to help parties reach agreement on
matters related to paternity and child support issues in Title IV-D cases. If no agreement results, parties
are entitled to a hearing before a judge.

Page 76 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2944
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department:

Circuit Court of Cook County, Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department

Grantee: Cook County
Grantor: The Annie E. Casey Foundation
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: This grant will fund the Circuit Court’s Juvenile Detention Alternatives Initiative (JDAI)
model detention reform site activities, as well as JDAI supportive services.
Grant Amount: $185,645
Grant Period: 1/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

Summary: Over the last two decades, the Circuit Court of Cook County has been recognized as a model
reform site for community-based alternative juvenile detention programs by the Annie E. Casey
Foundation. These programs are administered by the court’s Juvenile Probation and Court Services
Department and have helped to divert tens of thousands of minors from the Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center. Not only have these programs steadily lowered the population of the JTDC throughout
the last 20 years, they also have reduced recidivism and significantly lowered costs for Cook County.
The grant funds will be used to host delegations from other jurisdictions made up of multi-disciplinary
juvenile justice professionals. These delegations come to witness firsthand how the court’s
community-based continuum of alternative programs and services for at-risk court-involved minors
achieve success. In 2013, for example, the court hosted groups from Massachusetts, Minnesota,
Nebraska, Ohio and Tennessee, as well as college students from around the country. In addition, the grant
will provide resources for advanced training of court practitioners, ancillary services for diversion
programs, bus passes for court-involved minors and family members, and supplies. It will also fund
program evaluations of JDAI programs to help the court to identify opportunities for further program
enhancements and potential service gaps.

Page 77 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
SOCIAL SERVICES

14-2403
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING BANK SIGNATURES
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize departments
and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signers on the account
maintained for the Social Service Department of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the department’s checking account at U.S. Bank be
updated; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the following persons are authorized to sign checks:
1.Sharon Hoffman
2.Vanessa Whitehead
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following name as signer on the account be deleted:
1. Jesús Reyes
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT

14-2735
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT RENEWAL
Department: Clerk of the Circuit Court
Other Part(ies): Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services
Request:
Requesting authorization for the Cook County Board President to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the State of Illinois/Department of Healthcare and Family Services
(HFS) on behalf of the Clerk of the Circuit Court for a Child Support Agreement between HFS and the
Clerk’s Office which would provide the County with $4,085,078.00 in grant under Title IV-D of the
Social Security Act.
Goods or Services: The Clerk’s Office file all legal actions instituted by the State’s Attorney
concerning IV-D matters; accept and process child support payments and mail out within two (2) work
days, according to procedures set by the State of Illinois, Department of Healthcare and Family Services;

Page 78 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

provide copies of all court orders received by the County, in County courtrooms which hear IV-D cases;
provide to HFS or representatives pertinent case information and copies of support orders needed for
serving IV-D cases or for performance of normal account receivable adjustment functions, among other
duties.
Agreement Number: N/A
Agreement Period: The previous agreement for the last state fiscal year in the amount of $4,085,080.00
was approved by the Board of Commissioners on 5/8/2013. Renewal period is from 7/1/2014 through
6/30/2015.
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court contracts with the State of Illinois, Department
of Healthcare and Family Services, to implement the Child Support Enforcement Program in Cook
County. The Clerk’s Office file all legal actions instituted by the State’s Attorney concerning IV-D
matters; accept and process child support payments and mail out within two (2) work days, according to
procedures set by the State of Illinois, Department of Healthcare and Family Services, provide copies of
all court orders received by the County, in County courtrooms which hear IV-D cases; provide to HFS or
representatives pertinent case information and copies of support orders needed for serving IV-D cases or
for performance of normal account receivable adjustment functions; among other duties.
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK

14-3014
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Office of the County Clerk
Grantee: Office of the County Clerk
Grantor: Illinois State Board of Elections
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: The purpose of this grant is to ensure that all polling places are made accessible to voters with
disabilities.
Grant Amount: $155,529.00
Grant Period: 5/1/2013 - 12/1/2014
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A

Page 79 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: The Voting Access for Individuals with Disabilities (VAID) grant funds are used to make
polling places, including the path of travel, entrances, exits and voting areas of each polling facility
accessible to individuals with disabilities, including the blind and visually impaired, in a manner that
provides the same opportunity for access and participation as for other voters.
It also provides individuals with disabilities and other individuals with information about the
accessibility of polling places, including outreach programs to inform the individuals about the
availability of accessible polling places and training election authorities, election judges, poll worker,
and other election volunteers on how best to promote the access and participation of individuals with
disabilities in elections.

14-3017
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD
Department: Office of the County Clerk
Grantee: Office of the County Clerk
Grantor: Illinois State Board of Elections
Request: Authorization to accept grant
Purpose: Voter Registration State Grant 2014
Grant Amount: $600,000.00
Grant Period: 7/1/2013 - 6/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The purpose of this grant is to assist in the maintenance and other costs associated with the
voter registration system in order for it to communicate with the Centralized Statewide Voter Registration
System as required by Title III Section 303 of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002.

Page 80 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

RECORDER OF DEEDS

14-2821
Presented by: CEDRIC GILES, Chief Deputy Recorder
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Recorder of Deeds
Vendor: Paradigm Solutions, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s):
solution.

Project Management Services (PMP) for “Core Application” technology

Contract Value: $589,000.00
Contract period: 4/1/2014 - 3/31/2016 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $133,000.00, FY 2015 228,000.00, FY 2016
228,000.00
Accounts: 527-260
Contract Number(s): 1441-13490
Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: These services will be required for the duration of drafting the RFP, vendor selection,
implementation of a new state of the art Recording, Cashiering, Indexing, Accounting, and Information
Reporting “core application”. This includes, but not limited to training of CCRD personnel. The time
frame for full implementation may be 1.5 to 2 years. The new CCRD application is expected to be in
effect for at least 10 years or more after completion.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
Paradigm Solutions, Inc. was previously awarded a contract by the City of Chicago through a
competitive Request for Proposals process. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement effort.

Page 81 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2840
Presented by: CEDRIC GILES, Chief Deputy Recorder
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Recorder of Deeds
Vendor: Property Insight, a Subsidiary of Chicago Title, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): CCRD maintains a public search website allowing the Purchaser access to
certain document images filed with the Recorder and to data from the bulk database index information
system.
Contract Value: None. Revenue Generating
Contract period: 4/1/2014- 3/31/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: $600,000.00 Annual Revenue, FY 2014 $400,000.00, FY 2015
$600,000.00, FY2016 $600,000.00, FY 2017 $200,000.00
Accounts: Recorder Revenue Fee; General Fund Revenue
Contract Number(s): N/A
Summary: The Purchaser will have access to copies of data for a bulk purchase and the Purchaser will
deposit funds with Recorder of Deeds for fees in advance of receiving the Data requested. The company
previously paid the County $500,000/year for this access. The ordinances renew the agreement for 3
years at a new flat rate of $600,000/year. Potential, anticipated revenue is $1.8 million over the life of the
agreement.

14-2842
Presented by: CEDRIC GILES, Chief Deputy Recorder
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Recorder of Deeds
Vendor: AMCAD LLC, Herndon, Virginia
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Microfilm Conversion Servicing for Document Storage
Contract Value: $305,677.90
Contract period: 6/01/2014 - 5/31/2015
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014: $305,677.90

Page 82 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Accounts: 527-260
Contract Number(s): 1441-13461
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Recorder of Deeds Office is requesting a Sole Source contract with American Cadastre, LLP
(dba/AMCAD). AMCAD performed the initial digitation services of land records from 1970 through
1985. Services provided did not fulfill agency needs. AMCAD is the only vendor able to provide relief
and recourse for inadequate services under contract #06-41-694. Upon completion over 15,920,724
images will be corrected for better retrieval and viewing by users of CCRD recordings. The images will
be delivered to CCRD and become retrievable through our search engine. The services will be completed
and the final product delivered to CCRD within 60 days of receipt by AMCAD. AMCAD is providing
the services at a discount rate in order to restore its image and reputation in the market. CCRD believes
it is in our best interest to have the images presented in a clear and legible format for all users.
OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS

14-2734
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Department of Corrections
Vendor: 1)A Safe Heaven, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
2) Cornell Interventions, Inc., Woodridge, Illinois and
3) Henry’s Sober Living House, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Alternative Temporary Housing
Contract Value: $9,317,355.00
Contract period: June 1, 2014 - May 31, 2017 with three (3) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:
FY 2014 $1,449,490;
FY2015: $3,105,785.00;
FY2016: $3,105785.00
FY2017: $1,656,295.00.
Accounts: 239-298
Contract Number(s):

Page 83 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

1)A Safe Haven, LLC Contract # 1488-13689, $4,774,200.00 (3years)
2)Cornell Interventions, Inc., Contract # 1488-13688, $3,898,200.00 (3 years)
3)Henry’s Sober Living House , Contract # 1488-13680, $644,955.00 (3 years)
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The Chief Procurement Officer issued an Request For Proposals (RFP) in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code, for Alternative Temporary Housing Program for Participants court
ordered to Electronic Monitoring who have no place to stay. The above vendors are recommended for
award based on their qualifications and extensive experience with other public agencies, including City,
County and State.
OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

14-1812
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
Vendor: Tabb Textile Co., Inc., Opelika, Alabama
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Linens
Original Contract Period: 4/3/2012 - 4/2/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/3/2014 - 4/2/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$523,899.20

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/3/2012, $523,899.20
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $278,193.10
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014 $185,462.08 FY 2015 $92,731.02
Accounts: 239-320, 440-333
Contract Number(s): 11-45-156

Page 84 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Cook County Sheriff’s Office and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center is exercising
the first renewal option for the purchase of linens used by the Cook County Department of Corrections
and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.

14-1813
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Morpho Trak, Inc., Federal Way, Washington
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Live Scan Network Support and Maintenance
Original Contract Period: 3/1/2013 - 2/28/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/1/2014 - 2/28/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$427,462.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/27/2013, $427,462.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $446,010.91
Potential Fiscal Impact: $446,010.91
Accounts: 231-440
Contract Number(s): 12-45-204
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Bureau of Technology concurs.

Page 85 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Summary: Cook County Sheriff’s Office is exercising the first of two renewal options on Contract
Number 12-45-204 to continue maintenance and support for the Countywide Live Scan Network which
provides support and maintenance to 114 law enforcement agencies in Cook County for the purpose of
processing fingerprints through the Criminal Apprehension Booking System (CABS).

14-2349
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County; JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent,
Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff and Department of Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Genuine Parts Company d/b/a NAPA Auto Parts, Naperville, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Vehicle Equipment, Parts Management and Supply Services
Original Contract Period: 5/1/2012 - 9/30/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 10/1/2014 - 9/30/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $2,008,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/1/2012, $700,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 1/16/2013, $1,160,000.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): $148,000.00
This Increase Requested: $2,678,666.67
Potential Fiscal Impact: Account 499-444 FY 2014 $517,000.00, FY 2015 $666,666.67, Account
500-444 FY 2014 $530,000.00, FY 2015 $965,000.00
Accounts: 499-444 ($1,183,666.67), 500-444 ($1,495,000.00)
Contract Number(s): 12-30-185
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officers concurs
Summary: Genuine Parts Company d/b/a NAPA Auto provides the County with vehicle and equipment
parts management and supply services. The Sheriff’s Office and Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court
were added to this Countywide contract and desired certain specific and similar goods of the contractor.
The extension and increase is requested to enable the Highway Department and the Sheriff’s Office to
continue this agreement based on respective needs for vehicle and equipment parts management and

Page 86 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

supply services.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
Genuine Parts Company d/b/a NAPA Auto was previously awarded a contract by the City of Chicago,
through a competitive Request for Proposal process. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement
effort.

14-2436
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Chicago High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA)
Grantee: Chicago High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA)
Grantor: Office of the National Drug Control Policy
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: The purpose of the grant is the continued funding of the Chicago High Intensity Drug
Trafficking Area (HIDTA)
Grant Amount: $4,938,570.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2014 - 12/31/2015
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 7/17/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $4,655,362.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The purpose of the HIDTA Grant is to enhance and coordinate America’s drug control
efforts among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies in order to eliminate or reduce drug
trafficking and it’s harmful consequences in critical regions of the United States. The grant also includes
efforts to reduce the production, manufacturing, distribution, transportation and chronic use of illegal
drugs, as well as the attendant money laundering of drug proceeds.

Page 87 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2600
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County Sheriff
Grantee: Cook County Sheriff Child Support Enforcement
Grantor: State of Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: To provide child support services within Cook County.
Grant Amount: $2,711,260.00
Grant Period: 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2015
Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 5/8/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $2,711,260.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: The Child Support Enforcement program provides services within Cook County that
improves child support collection. The responsibilities of the Sheriff’s Office are to serve and execute
within Cook County, and return all summons, subpoenas, writs, warrants, orders, notices of delinquency
for income withholdings, notice of support obligation and decrees as may be legally directed. In
addition, the Office of the Sheriff cooperates with law enforcement personnel throughout Illinois and
other states regarding Child Support Enforcement.

14-2811
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff and Cook County Adult Probation
Vendor: Ward Auto Body, Inc., River Grove, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Auto Body Repair for Zone One (1)

Page 88 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Original Contract Period: 4/18/2012 - 4/17/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/18/2014 - 4/17/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $140,600.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/18/2012, $140,600.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):

N/A

This Increase Requested: $169,500.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: Account 499-444 (FY 2014 $74,500.00, FY 2015 $75,000.00) and Account
280-444 (FY2014 $10,000.00, FY 2015 - $10,000.00)
Accounts:

499-444 - $149,500.00 and 280-444 - $20,000.00

Contract Number(s): 11-45-2760
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Contract 11-45-2760 was awarded through a competitive bidding procedure, in accordance
with the Cook County Procurement Code. The bid specification included the awarding of a contract by
zones, which included 3 zones. We are currently requesting an extension and increase for Zone One (1),
which will enable the Sheriff’s Office and Adult Probation to continue to provide auto repair services.

14-3021
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Gateway Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Substance Abuse Treatment
Original Contract Period: 5/17/2009 - 5/16/2010 one (1) year with four (4) one (1) year renewal
options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: n/a
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$15,572,140.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/19/2009, $3,114,428.00

Page 89 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): renewal and increase 3/16/2010, renewal and increase
3/15/2011, renewal and increase 3/13/2012
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): renewal 2/6/2013
This Increase Requested: $2,115,010.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: $2,115,010.00
Accounts: 239-298
Contract Number(s): 09-41-118
Concurrences:
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The Cook County Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief Procurement Officer to
enter into a contract with Gateway Foundation to provide substance abuse treatment and all of its
auxiliary services, for a period of one (1) year with four (4) additional one (1) year renewal options for
the contract amount of $3,114,428.00. The Board has previously authorized the CPO and the Using
Agency to exercise the contractual right to exercise the renewal and increase options. The CPO executed
an amendment for the fourth and final renewal option and Gateway Foundation has continued to provide
services from 5/17/2013 until 2/10/2014, which is the date Gateway completed providing services under
the contract. The CPO and the Using Agency are requesting that this Board approve the final increase
for work performed by Gateway Foundation through 2/10/2014.

14-3041
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Sheriff of Cook County
Other Part(ies): Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Request: Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement between the Cook County Sheriff’s Office and the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County.
Goods or Services:
Forest Preserve.

Deconstruction and salvage services with respect to certain sites owned by the

Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 4/11/2014 through 4/11/2015 with a one-year renewal option.
Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Summary: As part of this Intergovernmental Agreement, the Sheriff’s Office will train offenders from

Page 90 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

the Vocational Rehabilitation Impact Center (“VRIC”) and Day Reporting participants to provide
deconstruction and salvage services with respect to certain sites owned by the Forest Preserve District.
Under this agreement the Forest Preserve District agrees to reimburse the Sheriff’s Office for the salary,
benefits and administrative costs for Corrections’ staff.
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office has approved this IGA as to form.
OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY

14-3081
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: This grant will provide funding for: one (1) Victim Compensation Specialist, two (2)
Generalists, one (1) Suburban Generalist, one (1) Senior Specialist, one (1) Gang Homicide Specialist, one
(1) Domestic Violence Specialist, and one (1) Juvenile Courthouse Specialist.
Grant Amount: $470,699.00
Grant Period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2015
Fiscal Impact: $121,603.00 (Required Match $117,675.00, Over Match $3,928.00)
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 5/29/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $470,699.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: Requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $470,699.00 from the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority, Chicago, Illinois, for the Law Enforcement Prosecutor Based
Victim Assistance Program. This grant will provide funding for: one (1) Victim Compensation
Specialist, two (2) Generalists, one (1) Suburban Generalist, one (1) Senior Specialist, one (1) Gang
Homicide Specialist, one (1) Domestic Violence Specialist, and one (1) Juvenile Courthouse Specialist.

Page 91 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

This grant requires that our Office match 25% of the grant award. The match commitment for this
program is a cash match that supports a portion of the salary costs and a portion of the fringe benefits of
the eight (8) Victim Specialists, as well as the independent audit.
OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU

14-2771
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Civil Actions Bureau Child Support Enforcement Division
Grantee: Civil Actions Bureau Child Support Enforcement Division
Grantor: Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: Offer the citizens of Cook County child support enforcement services.
Grant Amount: $12,050,164.00
Grant Period: 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2015
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 5/8/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $12,050,164.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: This funding provides salary and fringe benefits to support 122 positions such as, assistant
state’s attorneys, investigators and support staff. This staff is 100% dedicated to provide child support
enforcement services to the citizens of Cook County.

Page 92 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

14-2506
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Cortez v. County of Cook

Case Number: 13 L 12182

14-2512
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Erica Crenshaw v. Cook County

Case Number: 13 CV 4718

14-2513
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Elizabeth Osaigbovo v. Cook County, et al.

Case Number: 13 CV 8917

14-2593
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Patrick Sheahan v. Sheriff of Cook County

Page 93 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Case Number: 13 C 9134

14-2594
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Craig Harris v. Chief Judge

Case Number: 13 L 14296

14-2595
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

State Farm Mutual v. Kenneth Vargas and County of Cook

Case Number: 13 M1 015662

14-2618
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Darnez Perkins and Mickin Perkins v. Cook County, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 2430

14-2619
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Page 94 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

Case Name:

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

Denise Murray v. Cook County Sheriff’s Office, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 2496

14-2925
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Percy Taylor v. Thomas Dart

Case Number: 13 C 1856

14-2928
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Jeremy Brown v. Thomas Dart

Case Number: 14 C 175

14-3109
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Roldan v. Sheriff Dart

Case Number: 13 L 014446

Page 95 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER

14-3022
Presented by: MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer; DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit
Court; ZAHRA ALI, Director, Department of Revenue
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Treasurer, Department of Revenue, Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Tyco Integrated Security, Boca Raton, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Alarm System Monitoring and Maintenance
Original Contract Period: 1/1/2013 - 12/31/2013
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $72,463.78
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/30/2013, $72,463.78
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $91,890.75
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014 $91,890.75
Accounts: Treasurer $61,326.10 (060-630) Department of Revenue $12,301.68 (007-440) Clerk of the
Circuit Court $13,291.49 (335-449) and $4,971.48 (529-660)
Contract Number(s): 12-45-395
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Tyco Integrated Security is the sole provider of maintenance services to alarm systems for
three County Agencies (Clerk of the Circuit Court, Treasurer, and Revenue). In the past, each agency
listed above had their own separate contract with Tyco Integrated Security. However, with this
amendment we are bringing all three separate contracts into one contract amendment, with the same
general terms and conditions, and the same contract expiration date.

Page 96 of 97

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

May 21, 2014

CHICAGO-COOK WORKFORCE PARTNERSHIP

14-3214
Presented by: KARIN M. NORINGTON-REAVES, Chief Executive Officer, Chicago Cook Workforce
Partnership
REPORT
Department: Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: 2014 1st Quarter Report
Report Period: through 3/31/2014
Summary: A report from the Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership to update the Board of
Commissioners on ongoing workforce development efforts, activities and outcomes.

Page 97 of 97

 