BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA

for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, April 9, 2014, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-107(dd) Public Testimony, public testimony will be permitted at
regular and special meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this
time to deliver testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three (3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board
Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-107(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of
the Board.
PRESIDENT

14-2346
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CABLE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT EXTENSION/RENEWAL
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the Illinois Constitution provides in relevant part that a home
rule unit "may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs
including, but not limited to, the power to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals and
welfare; to license; to tax . . ."; and
WHEREAS, Section 5/5-1095 of the Counties Code, 55 ILCS 5/5-1095, provides in relevant part that "The
County Board may license, tax or franchise the business of operating a community antenna television
system or systems within the County. . .”; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners (“County Board”) adopted Ordinance 82-O-32
("the Cook County Cable Television Ordinance" or "the Cable Ordinance"), to provide for the
non-exclusive franchising and regulation of CATV Systems within Unincorporated Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County seeks to provide cable Franchises and renewals in an equitable and
nondiscriminatory manner, taking all relevant facts and circumstances into account, so as to allow all cable
television Franchisees to provide service within Unincorporated Cook County on a fair and competitive
footing; and
WHEREAS, Comcast of California/ Illinois, LP; Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC; Comcast of California/
Colorado/ Illinois/ Indiana/ Texas, LLC; Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana; Comcast of Illinois IV, Inc.; Comcast
of Illinois/ West Virginia, LLC; Comcast of Illinois/ Texas, LLC; Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana/ Michigan,

Page 2 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Inc. ("Comcast") requested a renewal of its various cable television franchise(s) to provide CATV Service
in Cook County; a new Cable Franchise Agreement was negotiated and granted on June 5, 2007 by the
County Board; and
WHEREAS, the June 5, 2007 Cable Franchise Agreement provided for a five (5) year term with an option
to extend the term of the Franchise by two (2) additional years upon Grantee’s written request to the County
to renew the franchise for two (2) years upon the same terms and conditions as the June 5, 2007 Cable
Franchise Agreement; this renewal may be extended for another two (2) year term conditioned on the
above; and
WHEREAS, prior to the expiration of the original Agreement, Comcast requested to exercise the first two
(2) year extension/renewal and on January 18, 2012 the County Board approved execution of the first
extension for the period of June 4, 2012 through June, 3, 2014; and
WHEREAS, Comcast has constructed and installed, and is currently maintaining and operating a CATV
System in Unincorporated Cook County pursuant to the Franchise Agreement which is set to expire on June
3, 2014; and
WHEREAS, Comcast provided to Cook County a letter stating the Grantee’s intent to renew its Cable
Television Franchise Agreement pursuant to Section 626 of the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C.
Section 546; which the County received and subsequently the Grantee and Cook County reviewed the
terms the Franchise Agreement and extension/renewal terms pursuant to 47U.S.C. Section 546(h); and
WHEREAS, Comcast has timely remitted its Franchise Fees in the amount of 5% of its gross revenue for
the franchise area on an annual basis and will continue to provide the statutory maximum franchise fee
under the terms of the extension/renewal; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Revenue has reviewed Comcast’s performance per the terms of the
Cable Franchise Agreement; and
WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to renew the grant of a non-exclusive cable television franchise to
Comcast in accordance with the terms of the Cable Franchise Agreement entered into on June 5, 2007.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby
authorizes a renewal of the June 5, 2007 Cable Franchise Agreement upon the same terms and conditions
with Comcast of California/ Illinois, LP; Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC; Comcast of
California/Colorado/Illinois/Indiana/Michigan, LP; Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana; Comcast of Illinois IV,
Inc.; Comcast of Illinois/ West Virginia, LLC; Comcast of Illinois/ Indiana/ Michigan, Inc. (“the Grantee”);
and
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that the President be authorized to execute an addendum to the June 5,
2007 Cable Franchise Agreement authorizing the second two (2) year extension/renewal of the June 5,
2007 Cable Franchise Agreement with the extension period to begin on June 3, 2014 and expire on June
3, 2016.

Page 3 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

14-2412
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Joseph Dentzman
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Garden Homes Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/ 1/2017, or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A

14-2413
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Joseph Ford
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: South Stickney Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/1/2017, or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A

Page 4 of 73

April 9, 2014

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

COMMISSIONERS

14-2408
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
GREGG GOSLIN, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
THE COOK COUNTY COMPANION ANIMAL AND CONSUMER PROTECTION
ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, Pet stores selling live animals have traditionally been a sales outlet for young dogs, cats,
and rabbits bred commercially in puppy mills, kitten mills, and rabbit mills both within the United States
and abroad; and
WHEREAS, according to the Humane Society of the United States, it is estimated that 10,000 puppy
mills produce more than 2,400,000 puppies a year in the United States and that nearly all pet store
puppies, kittens and many pet store rabbits come from puppy, kitten and rabbit mills, respectively; and
WHEREAS, puppy mills are mass-breeding facilities that churn out puppies with an emphasis on profit
over welfare. These mills usually house dogs in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions without adequate
veterinary care, food, water and socialization. Puppy mill dogs do not get to experience treats, toys,
exercise or basic grooming; and
WHEREAS, the inhumane conditions in puppy and kitten mill facilities lead to health and behavioral
issues as well as congenital and hereditary illness and disease. Puppy mill puppies often arrive in pet
stores and their new homes with various diseases including giardia, parvovirus kennel cough, heartworm
and distemper. These diseases can lead to excessive veterinary costs both upfront and down the line; and
WHEREAS, rabbits are often treated inhumanely in the breeding mills and because rabbits can multiply
every 28 days, rabbit mills are particularly prone to problems of overcrowding. These animals are often
viewed as disposable, and after the Easter holiday it’s estimated that as many as 80% of rabbits sold as
Easter or springtime pets are abandoned by their owners; and
WHEREAS, the lack of enforcement resources at local, state and federal levels allow many inhumane
puppy, kitten, and rabbit mills to operate with impunity. According to a spokesman from the United
States Department of Agriculture, due to budget constraints, the Illinois Department of Agriculture
employs only seven inspectors that are charged with overseeing more than 1,300 dog dealers, kennel
operators and pet shop operators; and
WHEREAS, every year millions of cats and dogs are euthanized in our nation’s animal shelters because
there are more pets than there are responsible homes for them. Puppy and kitten mills contribute to pet
overpopulation and cause countless animals lifetimes of suffering in squalid wire cages; and

Page 5 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, according to information obtained from the Illinois Department of Agriculture regarding
publicly run animal care and control facilities located within Cook County, in 2011 these facilities
impounded 19,442 dogs and cats that were not reclaimed by the owner, and euthanized 6,618 of these
animals (roughly 34% of total). In 2012 these facilities impounded 22,679 dogs and cats that were not
reclaimed by the owner, and euthanized 8,035 of these animals (roughly 39% of total); and
WHEREAS, between 2011 and 2012 there was an increase of 3,237 dogs and cats impounded and not
reclaimed by the owner and a 5 percent increase in the rate of euthanasia; and
WHEREAS, this Ordinance specifically addresses the retail sale of dogs, cats and rabbits in pet stores
and will not affect a consumer’s ability to obtain a dog or cat of his or her choice directly from a breeder,
a breed-specific rescue organization or a shelter; and
WHEREAS, across the country, thousands of independent pet stores as well as large chains operate
profitably with a business model focused on the sale of pet services and supplies and not on the sale of
dogs and cats. Many of these stores collaborate with local animal shelters and rescue organizations to
offer space and support for showcasing adoptable homeless pets in need of a forever home; and
WHEREAS, on March 5, 2014, the Chicago City Council overwhelming approved a similar ordinance
that allows for the commercial sale of dogs, cats and rabbits in the City of Chicago only if they are
sourced from shelters and other humane adoption centers, effectively ending the sale of pets from animal
mills in the interest of the health and well-being of animals and local consumers alike; and
WHEREAS, in the United States and Canada alone, over 40 cities have enacted ordinances addressing
the sale of puppy and kitten mill dogs and cats, including: Chicago, Los Angeles, California; San Diego,
California; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Austin, Texas; Brick, New Jersey and Toronto, Canada; and
WHEREAS, current Federal and State of Illinois laws and regulations do not properly address the sale
of commercially bred dogs, cats and rabbits in the County’s business establishments; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners believes it is in the best interests of the County
to adopt reasonable regulations to protect the citizens of the County who may purchase dogs, cats or
rabbits from a pet store, help prevent inhumane breeding conditions, promote community awareness of
animal welfare, and foster a more humane environment in the County;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
10, Animals, Article I, In General, Sections 10-1 through 10-3 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is
hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 10-1. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide harmonious relationships in the interaction between man and
animal by:
(1) Protecting the citizens of the County from rabies by specifying such preventive and control measures
as may be necessary;

Page 6 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

(2) Protecting animals from improper use, abuse, neglect, inhumane treatment and health hazards,
particularly rabies;

(3) Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation, and injury from cats, dogs and other
animals;

(4) Encouraging responsible pet ownership;
(5) Providing for the assessment of penalties for violators and for the enforcement and administration of
this chapter;

(6) Protecting consumers purchasing dogs, cats or rabbits in the County.
Sec. 10-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the licensed veterinarian appointed by the County Board, pursuant to the Illinois
Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) or authorized representative.
Animal means any live vertebrate creature except man.
Animal capable of transmitting rabies means all animals classified as mammals.
Animal control warden means an employee of the County appointed by the Administrator to powers in
the enforcement of this chapter.
Bird means any flying vertebrate that is covered with feathers.
Bite means seizure of a person with the jaws or teeth of any cat, dog or other animal capable of
transmitting rabies so that the person so seized has been wounded or pierced and further includes contact
of the saliva of cat, dog or other animal with any break or abrasion of the skin.
Cat means all members of the classification, Felis catus.
Confined means the restriction of the cat, dog or other animal at all times by the owner in a manner that
will isolate the cat, dog or other animal from the public and other cats, dogs or other animals.
Control means any owned animal that is either secured by a leash or lead, or within the premises of its
owner, or confined within a crate or cage, or confined within a vehicle, or within the premises of another
person with the consent of that person.
Dangerous or vicious animal means any animal which has known vicious propensities or which has been
known to attack or injure any person who was peacefully conducting themselves in any place where they
may lawfully be.

Page 7 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Dog means all members of the classification, Canis familiaris.
Domestic animal means any animal which has been domesticated by man so as to live and breed in a
tame condition.
Guard dog means a dog used in a commercial business or by a municipal or police department for the
purposes of patrol and protection.
Inoculation against rabies means the injection of a rabies vaccine approved by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture and administered by a licensed veterinarian in accordance with the company's
recommendations for the vaccine used.
Offer(s) for sale means to display, sell, deliver, offer for sale or adoption, advertise for the sale of, barter,
auction, give away or otherwise dispose of a dog, cat or rabbit.
Owner means any person having the right of property in an animal, who keeps or harbors an animal, who
has it in their care, acts as its custodian or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by them unless possession is prohibited by Federal or State laws. Native wildlife
remaining on or about any premises shall not be included in this definition.
Pound means any facility licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture and approved by the
Administration for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless,
abandoned or unwanted animals.
Rabbit means all members of the classification, Oryctolagus cuniculus.
Rescue organization means any not-for-profit organization that has tax exempt status under Section
501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, whose mission and practice is, in whole or in
significant part, the rescue and placement of dogs, cats or rabbits.
Retailer means any person licensed or required to be licensed, who offers for sale any dog, cat or rabbit
in the County.
Service animal means any guide dog, signal dog, or other animal individually trained to do work or
perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including, but not limited to, guiding
individuals with impaired vision, alerting individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds,
providing minimal protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, or fetching dropped items.
Stray animal means any owned animal that is not controlled.
Tethering means to restrain a dog by tying the dog to any object or structure, including without limitation
a house, tree, fence, post, garage, shed, [or] clothes line by any means, including without limitation a
chain, rope, cord, leash or running line.
Tow chain or log chain means any chain that is more than one-quarter of an inch in width.

Page 8 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Sec. 10-3. Violations.
(a) Any person violating any provision of this chapter or counterfeiting or forging any certificate, permit or
tag, or resisting, obstructing or impeding any authorized officer in enforcing this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding
six months or both such fine and imprisonment. Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for every
day in which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed or permitted to continue and
shall be punished as provided in this chapter. Any person violating or failing to comply with Sec. 10-13 of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $500.00 for each violation. Each sale or act in violation of said
section shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(b) The Administrator or State's Attorney or any citizen of the County may maintain a complaint in the
Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin all persons in the control of a dangerous animal from allowing or
permitting such animal to leave their premises when not under the control of a leash and muzzle or other
recognized methods of physical restraint.
(c) If any owned animal injures another animal which is under control, the owner of the attacking animal is
liable for the full amount of the injuries sustained.
(d) If any owned animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any person who is peacefully conducting
himself in any place where he may lawfully be, the owner of such animal is liable for damages to such
person for the amount of the injury sustained.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Animals,
Article I, In General, Section 10-13 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 10-13. Prohibiting the sale of Commercially Bred Dogs, Cats and Rabbits in Pet Stores.
(a) A retailer may offer for sale only those dogs, cats or rabbits that the retailer has obtained from:
(1)

an animal control center, animal care facility, kennel, pound or training facility operated by
any subdivision of local, state or federal government; or

(2)

a humane society or rescue organization.

(b) Exemptions. The restrictions on retailers set forth in subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to any
entity listed in paragraphs (1) or (2) of subsection (a) of this section, or to any veterinary hospital or clinic
licensed pursuant to the Veterinary Medicine and Surgery Practice Act of 2004, codified at 225 ILCS 115.
(c) Disclosures required. Any retailer who offers for sale a dog, cat or rabbit shall make the following
disclosures to the customer about such animal:
(1) for each dog or cat: a written disclosure meeting all of the requirements set forth in Sections 3.5 or
3.15, as applicable, of the Animal Welfare Act, codified at 225 ILCS 605; and

Page 9 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

(2) for each rabbit: (i) the breed, approximate age, sex and color of the animal; (ii) the date and
description of any inoculation or medical treatment that the animal received while under the possession
of the retailer; (iii) the name and address of the location where the animal was born, rescued,
relinquished or impounded; and (iv) if the animal was returned by a customer, the date of and reason for
the return.
(d) The disclosures required under this subsection (c) shall be provided by the retailer to the customer in
written form and shall be signed by both the retailer and customer at the time of sale. The retailer shall retain
the original copy of such disclosure and acknowledgement for a period of 2 years from the date of sale.
Upon request by an authorized Administrator or Animal control warden, the original copy of such
disclosure and acknowledgement shall be made immediately available for inspection by such authorized
official. The retailer shall post, in writing, in a conspicuous place on or near the cage of any dog, cat or
rabbit offered for sale all of the information about a dog, cat or rabbit required under this subsection and
other applicable law.
(e) Applicability of this section. This section shall apply to all areas within Cook County, Illinois, except
those areas which are governed by an ordinance of another governmental entity (which by law may not be
superseded by this section).
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on July 1, 2014

14-2386
Presented by: TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Commissioner Timothy O. Schneider
Request: Approval of transfer of funds
Reason: Additional employee
From Account(s): 095-289, $17,000.00
To Account(s): 095-110, $17,000.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $17,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
3/10/2014; $254,007.00

Page 10 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
No other accounts considered
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
Commissioners offices budgeted $358,824.00
Concurrence(s):
N/A

14-2388
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
REPORT
Department: Veterans Assistance Commission of Cook County
Request: Receive and file
Report Title: FY 2014 1st Quarter Report
Report Period: 12/1/2013 - 2/28/2014
Summary: Per Board Resolution, this quarterly report provides daily activity at the Veterans Assistance
Commission for the captioned time period.

Page 11 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2397
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department:

Secretary to the Board of Commissioners

Summary: Request to rescind the authority to pay granted to the Comptroller for item 14-1364 which is
a duplicate of item 14-0776. Both items were approved by the Board on 2/19/2014.
14-1364
Attorney/Payee: Donna L Ryder
Presenter: Same
Fees: $387.50
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): legal representation
Name(s) of respondent(s): Christine Coleman (mother)
In Re: D. Coleman (minor)
Case No. (s): 04JA1609

14-2401
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
REQUEST TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM
Department: Secretary to the Board of Commissioners
Request:
amended

Requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to approve as

Item Number: 14-0606
Previously Approved Date: 1/15/2014
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.
14-0606
Attorney/Payee: Dr. Diane Lytton
Presenter: Stephen F. Potts
Fees: $6,976.47 $6,563.57
Service Rendered for court-appointed representation of indigent respondent(s): expert witness
Name(s) of respondent(s): Jermaine Carpenter
Case No(s): 09CR80002

Page 12 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

COMMITTEE REPORTS

14-2239
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Litigation
Committee Date: 4/8/2014

14-2241
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation
Committee Date: 4/8/2014

14-2243
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Technology
Committee Date: 4/8/2014

14-2260
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Audit
Committee Date: 4/8/2014

14-2275
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and Business and Economic Development
Committee Date: 4/8/2014

14-2244
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Rules and Administration
Committee Date: 4/9/2014

Page 13 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2255
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Committee Date: 4/9/2014

14-2245
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Finance
Committee Date: 4/9/2014

14-2247
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Zoning and Building
Committee Date: 4/9/2014

14-2249
COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Name: Roads and Bridges
Committee Date: 4/9/2014
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

14-2267
Presented by: IVAN SAMSTEIN, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Finance Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Request: Receive and File
Report Title:
2013
Report Period:

Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance Report of Depository Accounts for Fiscal Year
Fiscal Year 2013

Page 14 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: The Bureau of Finance respectfully submits the Taxpayer Interest Assurance Ordinance
Report of Depository Accounts for Fiscal Year 2013 as required by the Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest
Assurance Ordinance (County Code Section 34-40 et seq.) the Office of the Chief Financial Officer has
requested certain information and documents regarding depository accounts held by all elected and
appointed officials of Cook County during Fiscal Year 2013. The Report of Depository Accounts for
Fiscal Year 2013 is a compilation of all information received.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET MANAGEMENT SERVICES

14-2057
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget and Management Services
Request: The Department of Budget and Management Services respectfully submits a request to enter
the Transfer Report for the 1st Quarter of 2014 Fiscal Year, ending 2/28/2014 in accordance with FY
2014 Resolution Section Number 9.
Report Title: 1st Quarter, FY 2014 Transfer Requests $10,000 and Under
Report Period: 12/1/2013 - 2/28/2014
Summary: The report consists of the list of transfer requests $10,000.00 and under within and between
accounts for 2014 Fiscal Year, 1st quarter ending 2/28/2014.

14-2209
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget and Management Services
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bond Series Status Report - 2014 Fiscal Year, 1st Quarter Ending 2/28/2014
Report Period: 2014 Fiscal Year, 1st Quarter Ending 2/28/2014

Page 15 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: Submitting the Bond Series Status Report for the 1st Quarter of 2014 Fiscal Year ending
2/28/2014. The report consists of two (2) sections; the first section defines the bond funding status for
Capital Improvement and the second section for Equipment approved by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. The report presents the projected cost, adjustments to the projected cost, expenditures
and commitments, unencumbered balances, existing funding resources and future funding resources
required for the approved projects and equipment after the end of the quarter.

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

14-2304
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 2/20/2014 - 3/19/2014
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.

Page 16 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BUREAU OF FINANCE
ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING

14-2341
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Director, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
Vendor: Interior Investments, Lincolnshire, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Office Furniture
Contract Value: $193,342.90
Contract period: 4/10/2014- 04/09/2015, with one (1), one (1) year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $193,342.90
Accounts: 717-530
Contract Number(s):

1490-13448

Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This request is for the purchase, delivery and installation of office furniture. This furniture is
needed to house employees for a newly established Department, ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning).
ERP will utilize this contract for a specific scope of goods and services.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
Interior Investments is an authorized dealer of Herman Miller. Herman Miller, and its authorized dealers
was previously awarded a contract through a Request for Proposal process through U.S. Communities, a
national government purchasing cooperative sponsored by the National Association of Counties (NACO)
and the National Institute of Government Purchasing (NIGP), and in cooperation with the County of
Fairfax, Virginia. U.S. Communities is a group purchasing organization which services public agencies,
and its procurements are led by public procurement agencies. Cook County wishes to leverage this
procurement effort.

Page 17 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFCIE OF THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICE

14-1824
Presented by: SHANNON E. ANDREWS, Chief Procurement Officer
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Procurement Officer
Vendor: The Public Group, Provo, Utah
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): On-line Public Auction Services
Contract Value: None, Revenue Generating
Contract period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2015 with two (2) one (1) year extension options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: None, Revenue Generating
Accounts: General Fund / Miscellaneous Revenue
Contract Number(s): 1453-13450
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Summary: Section 34-125(j) of the Cook County Procurement Code provides that the Chief
Procurement Officer must determine when supplies, materials and equipment are obsolete or unusable,
and trade in, sell or dispose of such property. The Public Group LLC, provides a public online auction
system which will enable the County to manage the sale of its surplus items, including but not limited to
vehicles.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
The Public Group, LLC was previously awarded a contract by the City of Tucson, Arizona through a
competitive Request for Proposal process. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement effort.

Page 18 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BUREAU OF FINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE

14-2294
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ARTICLE XIV. WHEEL TAX
Sec. 74-550. Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Wheel Tax on Motor Vehicles
Ordinance".
Sec. 74-551. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article the following terms are defined as follows:
Bus means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and used for the
transportation of persons.
Larger passenger automobile means a passenger automobile with a curb weight of at least 4,500
pounds, as determined by the vehicle's manufacturer. Ambulances and hearses of more than 35 horsepower
are incorporated in the definition of larger passenger automobile.
Moped means a vehicle capable of being powered by either the muscular power of man or as a motor
vehicle at the discretion of the operator. For the purpose of licensing, a moped shall be licensed as a motor
vehicle.
Motor truck means a motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of
property.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle including motor bicycle or motor tricycle propelled otherwise than
by the muscular power of man or animal, except such as run on rails or tracks.
Owner includes a lessee, licensee, or bailee of a motor vehicle having the exclusive use thereof, under
a lease or other similar contractual agreement for a period of not less than 30 days.
Recreational vehicle means every motor vehicle originally designed or permanently converted and
used for living quarters or for human habitation, a motor home, and not used as a commercial motor vehicle.
Residing within the unincorporated area of Cook County means owning, leasing, or otherwise the
controlling of property or a place of business wherein motor vehicles, trailers, or semitrailers are stored,

Page 19 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

repaired, serviced, loaded or unloaded within the unincorporated area of Cook County in connection with
such business.
Semitrailer means a vehicle designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
Smaller passenger automobile means a passenger automobile with a curb weight of less than 4,500
pounds, as determined by the vehicle's manufacturer.
Tractor means any motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not so
constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
Trailer means a vehicle designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
Sec. 74-552. License requirement.
It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle owner residing within the unincorporated area of Cook
County to own, possess, use, or to cause or permit any of his agents, employees, lessees, or bailees to use
any motor vehicle upon the unincorporated area of Cook County, unless such vehicle be licensed as
hereinafter provided.
Sec. 74-553. Application.
Any person desiring a license for any such motor vehicle or other vehicle shall file an application with
the Department of Revenue (Department) in the Bureau of Finance, or other unit of local government
designated by the Director of the Department to accept applications on the Department’s behalf, upon a
form provided therefore, which shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, a description of the
vehicle for which the license is desired, the place where the same is to be kept when not in use, the number
and kinds of other vehicles kept by the said applicant at such place, and in the case of an application for a
license for a motor vehicle, for what purpose the same is to be used, and such other information as may be
prescribed.
Sec. 74-554. Exemptions including limitations.
All license plates or emblems for vehicles exempt from payment of the vehicle tax shall be furnished
by the Department at no charge. This emblem or license plate will have no expiration date and will remain
valid for the duration of the ownership of the vehicle.
(a) All vehicles owned and operated upon the public ways of the unincorporated area of Cook County
by the United States Government or any agency thereof, or by the State of Illinois or any
department thereof, or by any political subdivision, public or municipal corporation of the State
of Illinois or any department or other agency of such corporation, or by a nonprofit organization
as defined by Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, such as the American
Red Cross, and all buses owned and operated by churches in conjunction with the authorized
activities of said institutions under Section 3-616 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, shall be exempt

Page 20 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

from the vehicle tax. Every exempt vehicle in this sub-section, except those vehicles owned by
the County of Cook which are used by said government agencies in confidential or undercover
investigatory services or by an officer of any said agencies as the officer's official car shall have
the name of the owner painted in letters at least one and one-half inches in length in a conspicuous
place on the outside of each side of the vehicle; provided that in lieu of such identification every
vehicle which is exempt from payment of the state motor vehicle registration fee, shall have a
license plate or emblem as provided in Sections 74-556 and 74-560 herein and every vehicle
owned by the United States Government or any agency thereof, which is not identified as required
in this article, shall have such license plate or emblem.
(b) Vehicles owned by a person with disabilities and registered with the State of Illinois under 625
ILCS 5/3-616, shall be exempt from this tax.
(c) Vehicles owned by a disabled veteran, who has provided proof of a disability connected to service
in the United States military, shall be exempt from this tax.
A maximum of two vehicles owned by a person over the age of 65 shall upon satisfactory proof of the
owner's age be exempt from this tax. This exemption is limited to vehicles in the XSV, XLV, or A class.
Sec. 74-555. Issuance.
Upon the payment by the applicant of the license fee hereinafter provided, the County shall issue, or
cause to be issued, a license authorizing the use of such vehicle within the unincorporated area of Cook
County.
Sec. 74-556. Fees.
Annual license fees shall be as set out in Section 32-1.
(1) A self propelled vehicle operated as a tractor and one semitrailer shall be considered as one
vehicle in computing the license fees, and no additional license fee shall be required for the
semitrailer so used.
(2) The owner of each vehicle who has elected to pay a mileage tax to the State of Illinois shall be
required to be licensed as this article provides.
(3) A semitrailer used with any device for attaching it to a motor vehicle, a trailer, or other
semitrailer, shall be licensed as a trailer.
(4) All equipment mounted on wheels for transportation and attached to any motor vehicle or leading
semitrailer or trailer, using the public ways of the unincorporated area of Cook County, shall be
licensed hereunder as trailers.
(5) If any such vehicle has been purchased or lawfully acquired by the applicant on or after December
1 of any current year, the fee to be paid shall be a sum equal to one-half of the annual license fee,
specified in Section 32-1, as a license fee for the balance of such year. Before any applicant shall
be entitled to a prorated license as provided for in this section, the applicant shall furnish an
affidavit in a form satisfactory to the Department stating that the vehicle for which the license is
applied for was purchased or otherwise obtained by the applicant on or after December 1 of the

Page 21 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

current year, and shall exhibit to the Department the bill of sale covering the vehicle for which the
license is sought.
(6) Annual license fees collected by a unit of local government designated by the Director of the
Department to collect license fees on behalf of the Department shall be remitted back to the
Department.
Sec. 74-557. Effective dates.
This article shall be effective on January 1, 2006, and thereafter.
Sec. 74-558. Annual license.
(a) [License to be displayed.] Annual licenses must be displayed by July 1. Said licenses shall be valid
until June 30 in the following year.
(b) New residents. Within 60 days of taking up residence within the unincorporated area of Cook County,
a current Cook County Vehicle License must be displayed on the owner's vehicle.
(c) Newly acquired vehicles. For any new or used vehicle purchased or acquired after July 1, a valid Cook
County Vehicle License must be displayed within 30 days of the date of acquisition.
Sec. 74-559. Motor bicycle plate.
(a) The Department, or other unit of local government designated by the Director of the Department to act
on behalf of the Department, shall deliver to the holder of a license for a motor bicycle, motor tricycle,
or trailer, a metal plate or other license emblem which shall bear the word "Cook County" and a
number identical with the number of the license, the name of the class to which such vehicle belongs,
and the year for which such license is issued.
(b) When such metal plate or other license emblem is delivered to the holder of a license for a motor
bicycle, motor tricycle, or trailer, it shall be the duty of such licensee to affix such plate or other license
emblem in a conspicuous position so that the plate or other license emblem can be easily seen upon the
rear end of such motor bicycle, motor tricycle, or trailer.
Sec. 74-560. Window sticker.
(a) Except for those who receive a sticker under Section 74-557554 of this article, the Department, or
other unit of local government designated by the Director of the Department to act on the
Department’s behalf, shall deliver to the holder of any license for any automobile, motor truck, motor
ambulance or hearse, motor coach or motor bus, a sticker license emblem, which shall bear the words
"Vehicle Sticker" and "County of Cook" and the numerals designating the year for which such license
is issued, the name of the County Board President, and a number identical with the number of such
license.

Page 22 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

(b) Such sticker emblem shall be affixed, in accordance with the instructions printed thereon which are
made a part hereof, and without the use of supplemental adhesives, at the lower right-hand corner of
the inside of the glass portion of the windshield of such motor vehicle, approximately one inch from
the right-hand lower sections of the frame of such windshield.
(c) The Department shall change annually the predominant background colors of such sticker emblems.
(d) The Department, or other unit of local government designated by the Director of the Department to act
on the Department’s behalf, shall deliver to the holder of any license issued under Section 74-557554
of this article a sticker license emblem which shall bear the words "Vehicle Sticker" and "County of
Cook", the name of the County Board President, and a number identical with the number of such
license.
Sec. 74-561. Removal upon sale.
(a) Immediately upon the sale of any vehicle licensed under this article, when such sale is made prior to
the date of expiration of such license, the vendor shall remove the license tag, plate, transparent sticker,
or other license emblem from the vehicle so sold.
(b) Except where a vehicle has been regularly transferred as hereinafter provided in Section 74-564563
herein, it shall be the duty of the purchaser of any used automobile or other vehicle to remove and
deliver to the vendor or the vendor's agent immediately any license tag, plate, transparent sticker or
other license emblem which may be attached to such vehicle at the time of the purchase thereof, when
the vendor of such vehicle may have refused, failed or omitted to detach from such vehicle as
hereinafter required. It shall be unlawful for any such purchaser to use, sell or offer sale such used
automobile or other vehicle without first having removed all license tags, plates, transparent stickers or
other license emblems.
Sec. 74-562. Unlawful use on another vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to affix or cause to be affixed any license tag, plate, transparent
sticker or other license emblem to any automobile or other vehicle other than the vehicle to which such
license tag, plate, transparent sticker or other license emblem was intended to be affixed at the time of the
issuance thereof by the Department.
Sec. 74-563. Transfer.
(a) Whenever the owner of any vehicle licensed under this article, before the expiration of such license,
sells or otherwise disposes of such vehicle, and thereafter acquires another vehicle and desires to
transfer the vehicle license originally issued for the vehicle disposed of to such newly acquired vehicle,
such owner shall immediately make application to the Department, or other unit of local government
designated by the Director of the Department to act on the Department’s behalf, for a transfer of said
vehicle license to the newly purchased vehicle. Said application shall state the name and address of the
licensee and the name and address of the purchaser of said vehicle, together with a description of the
newly purchased vehicle. Upon surrender of the original license and transparent sticker or vehicle tag
in case a metal tag has been issued, or upon proof that the transparent sticker or plate has been

Page 23 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

destroyed, the Department, or other unit of local government designated by the Director of the
Department to act on the Department’s behalf, shall transfer said license to apply to the newly acquired
vehicle upon payment of the proper license fee of $20.00, provided, that the Department, or other unit
of local government designated by the Director of the Department to act on the Department’s behalf
shall not transfer any license where the transparent sticker emblem issued under said license is defaced
or mutilated so as to prevent identification of the emblem. It shall be unlawful for any person to
displace a transparent sticker emblem on any vehicle other than the vehicle for which the emblem was
originally issued, without first transferring the license to such other vehicle, as provided herein.
(b) The owner of any vehicle licensed under this article shall promptly notify the Department whenever
the transparent sticker emblem issued under such license is lost, stolen or destroyed. A duplicate
transparent sticker may be purchased from the Department, or other unit of local government
designated by the Director of the Department to act on the Department’s behalf, for $40.00. Transfer
fees collected by a unit of local government designated by the Director of the Department to act on
behalf of the Department shall be remitted back to the Department.
Sec. 74-564. Dealer license.
(a) If any manufacturer or dealer of any of the motor vehicles mentioned in this article shall make
application to the Department, or other unit of local government designated by the Director of the
Department to act on the Department’s behalf, and shall state that the manufacturer or dealer is a
manufacturer operating a plant for the construction of motor vehicles within the unincorporated area of
Cook County, or a dealer in such motor vehicles with a salesroom located within the unincorporated
area of Cook County, and desires a license emblem to be used by the dealer or manufacturer, the
Department shall upon payment by such applicant of the fee hereinafter set for such manufacturer or
dealer a distinctive license plate or transparent sticker license emblem with a number thereon. Said
emblem must be attached to or borne by any such motor vehicles while being operated on the streets of
the unincorporated area of Cook County. When any such vehicle is in use and carries such license plate
or transparent sticker license emblem, no other license fee shall be collected under the provision of this
article.
(b) The annual license fee to be paid for each such license plate or transparent sticker license emblem shall
be $40.00, and said fee shall not be prorated.
(c) Every manufacturer or dealer applying for said plates or transparent sticker license emblems must
submit to the Department, or other unit of local government designated by the Director of the
Department to act on the Department’s behalf, satisfactory proof of the person's status as such
manufacturer or dealer and satisfactory proof of the number of sets of dealer's plates issued to the
application by the State of Illinois; provided that no license plates or transparent sticker license
emblems shall be issued under this article unless the applicant is in possession of an Illinois dealer's
license for the current year. The total number of license plates and transparent sticker license emblems
that may be obtained under this article shall not exceed the number of sets of dealer's license plates
issued to the applicant by the State.
(d) No such license, plate or emblem shall be used on any motor vehicle rented by such manufacturer or
dealer, or on any vehicle used to transport persons or property for hire, or on any vehicle unless such

Page 24 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

vehicle is operated under a dealer's license issued by the State of Illinois and to which both State
license plates are attached.
Sec. 74-565. Business vehicle identification.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or to cause or permit any of a person's employees to use any
motor vehicle, or other vehicle, in the transportation of property upon the public ways of the unincorporated
area of Cook County unless such vehicle shall have the name and address of the owner thereof, and a serial
number distinguishing said vehicle from any other vehicle controlled or used by the same person plainly
painted, in the letters at least one and one-half inches in length, in a conspicuous place on the outside of
such vehicle, provided that any such person using and operating in the unincorporated area of Cook County
more than five such vehicles may cause such name and serial number to be painted on each vehicle as
foresaid in letter not less than three inches in length and omit therefrom the address of such person;
provided, further, that in event if such vehicle is used or operated continuously by a lessee or bailee or other
person having complete control over such vehicle, instead of the owner thereof, the name and address and
serial number or name and serial number, as the case may be, of such lessee, bailee or other person using
and operating said vehicle may be used as if the person were the owner thereof. Such name, address and
serial number, or name and serial number, as the case may be, shall be kept so painted, plainly and
distinctly, at all times while such vehicle is in use on the public ways of the unincorporated area of Cook
County. This section shall not be construed as applying to any motor vehicle, or other vehicle which is used
exclusively for noncommercial purposes.
Sec. 74-566. Right to inspect.
The Cook County Sheriff's Police are hereby authorized to issue citations to any vehicle registered to
an address in unincorporated Cook County on the public way in unincorporated Cook County that is not
displaying a Cook County vehicle sticker and furthermore, officers of the Cook County Sheriff's Police
shall have the authority to enter the following places for purposes of ascertaining whether vehicles parked
therein are in compliance with this article and issue citations accordingly:
(1) Any parking lot that is open to pedestrian traffic. Nothing in this section authorizes any officer to
force, break, or remove any lock or door in order to gain entry to any of the foregoing places.
Sec. 74-567. Penalty for ordinance violation.
(a) Late fee. Any owner subject to this tax as defined in Section 74-551 or 74-552 who purchases a license
after July 1 or other due date as defined in Section 74-559558(b) or (c) shall pay a late fee penalty
equal to the amount due for the license fee but not less than $25.00 per license, whichever is more.
Persons over age 65, physically handicapped individuals, or disabled veterans shall not be charged
more than $25.00 for a late fee.
(b) Back dated fees. Any owner subject to this tax person or motor vehicle as defined in Section 74-551 or
74-552 who did not purchase a license after the effective date may be required to pay the entire amount
of fees due for each of the prior three years that the fee had not been paid.

Page 25 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

(c) Penalty for failure to properly display sticker or unlawful use of sticker on another vehicle. Any owner
of a motor vehicle in violation of these provisions requiring a license shall be fined $75.00 per offense.
(1) Purchase of a license after the due date. Purchase of a license after the due date shall not result in
an order of compliance discharge in an administrative hearing. All penalties and fines, contained
herein shall be mandatory; and
(2) Every person found in violation of any section of this Article may request an administrative
hearing conducted pursuant to Section 82-180 of this Code.
(d) Penalty fees collected by a unit of local government designated by the Director of the Department to
act on behalf of the Department shall be remitted back to the Department.
Sec. 74-568. Penalty for unlawful removal.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in 50 ILCS 45/80, any person who shall take, destroy, remove, or
obliterate any license tag, plate or emblem provided for in this article, without the consent of the owner
of the vehicle, shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. Every such
wrongful destruction, obliteration or removal of such license tag, plate or emblem from any vehicle
shall be considered a separate offense.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in 50 ILCS 45/80, any person violating any provision of this article
where the penalty is not otherwise herein provided for shall be fined not less than $50.00 dollars nor
more than $200.00 for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be considered as committed
for each and every day any wagon or vehicle is used upon the public ways of the unincorporated area
of Cook County without having procured a license and without having complied with the provisions of
this article.
(c) The license and fees herein imposed is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Government of the
United States, the State of Illinois or by any unit of local government.
Secs. 74-569—74-579. Reserved.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

14-2162
Presented by: CARL BYRD, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Bureau of Administration
Vendor: Vintage Tech, LLC, Romeoville, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute

Page 26 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Good(s) or Service(s): Collection, Recycling and Disposal of Electronic Waste
Contract Value:

Revenue generating contract

Contract period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2016, with two (2) one (1) year options to renew
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: None, Revenue Generating
Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): 13-45-13247
Concurrences:
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This is a revenue generating contract to provide collection, recycling, and disposal of electronic
waste for all Cook County facilities. On 11/19/2013, bids were solicited for the collection, recycling and
disposal of electronic waste. Vintage Tech, LLC was the responsive and responsible bidder meeting the
solicitation requirements and providing the most potential revenue.
.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION AND HIGHWAYS

14-1900
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Robbins, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute
Goods or Services: Cook County will incorporate the design and construct of certain improvements
along Kedzie Avenue from 139th Street to 135th Street and along 139th Street from Kedzie Avenue to
Utica Avenue, including landscaping, sidewalk and modifications for ADA compliance, street lighting
and crosswalk pavement markings, with reimbursement from federal sources secured by the Village.
Location: Kedzie Avenue from 139th Street to 135th Street and along 139th Street from Kedzie Avenue
to Utica Avenue in the Village of Robbins
Centerline Mileage: 1.25 miles
Section: 13-W4612-07-LS

Page 27 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

County Board District: 5
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $2,050,000.00 ($1,640,000.00 to be reimbursed from FHWA)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: This Agreement follows a Local Agency Federal Agreement TE-HPP-1375(002) previously
approved by your Honorable Body on 6/19/2013 for funding the improvement and is needed to improve
pedestrian access and mobility in the community around the local Metra train station.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’sOffice.

14-1901
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute
Goods or Services: Cook County will incorporate CTA railroad grade crossing facility adjustments into
its project along Crawford Avenue, Villages of Lincolnwood and Skokie.
Location: Crawford Avenue, Devon Avenue to Oakton Street in the Villages of Lincolnwood and Skokie
Centerline miles: 2.00 miles
Section: 08-W4337-03-PV
County Board District: 13
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $873,513.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)

Page 28 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: The County will pay for all costs associated with the grade crossing adjustments. This
Agreement is necessitated by the improvement and is needed to provide a safe, comfortable and
sustainable highway.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s
Office.

14-1902
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Mount Prospect, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter and execute
Goods or Services: The Village will be the lead agency for design and construction of pedestrian
facility enhancements at the intersection of Busse Road at Lonnquist Boulevard, including installation of
a new Rapid Rectangular Flashing Beacon (RRFB) System, sidewalk removal and replacement, ADA
compliant sidewalk ramps, pedestrian signage, crosswalk pavement markings and landscaping.
Location: Busse Road at Lonnquist Boulevard in the Village of Mount Prospect
Section: 13-W7140-02-TL
County Board District: 15
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $19,370.25
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: The County will reimburse the Village of Mount Prospect for fifty (50%) percent of the
enhancement construction costs, estimated total County share $19,370.25, under Cook County Section:
13-W7140-02-TL.
This Agreement follows a request from the Village to ensure the safety of pedestrians and is necessitated
in accordance with the County’s Complete Streets Policy. The Agreement has been examined and
approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s Office.

Page 29 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-1903
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Request: Refer to the Committee on Roads and Bridges
Project: Supplemental Improvement for additional funding that was needed for removal and
replacement of concrete median and unanticipated additional engineering by County Forces.
Location: Lake Cook Road, Hicks Road to Illinois Route 53 and at Arlington Heights Road in the
Villages of Palatine, Arlington Heights and Buffalo Grove
Section: 00-A5011-05-CH
County Board District: 14
Centerline Mileage: 0.23
Fiscal Impact: $51,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Funds (600-585 Account)
Board Approved Date and Amount: 1/6/2000 $475,000.00
Increased Amount: $51,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $526,000.00
Summary: This improvement, is for the construction of a new continuous right turn lane from Hicks
Road to Illinois Route 53 and increasing storage capacity of left turn lanes at Hicks Road (east leg) and at
Arlington Heights Road (west leg) and shall include a new traffic signal at Old Hicks Road,
modifications to the existing traffic signal at Hicks Road, removal and replacement of concrete median,
curb and gutter replacement, drainage additions and adjustments, pavement marking, traffic control and
protection, landscaping, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances. On 1/6/2000, your
Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution appropriating $475,000.00 towards completion of
this improvement. Subsequently, the scope of work was expanded to include removal and replacement
of concrete median.

Page 30 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-1904
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Department of Transportation and Highways Maintenance
Resolution Electrical and Mechanical Item Maintenance for Calendar Year 2015 at Various Locations
Section Number: 15-8EMIM-43-GM
Maintenance District(s): 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
County Board District(s): 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 13-17
Fiscal Impact: $3,520,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
resolution appropriating funds for the contract maintenance and operation services of traffic signals and
flashers at 450 locations, 16 roadway lighting and 5 interior lighting installations, 5 navigational lighting
installations, 7 pumping stations and 6 cathodic protection locations, to be more fully described in
subsequent contract documents and includes energy charges for traffic signals and pumping stations,
contingencies for possible temporary signal installations and knockdown replacement on County
maintained highways for the calendar year 2015 and includes supervision by County Forces.
These services are required by the Department to maintain the electrical and mechanical items on our
roadway network to ensure public safety and traffic control. This appropriation is made in anticipation of
a forthcoming contract to be submitted to your Honorable Body at a later date.

14-1905
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Department of Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bureau of Construction’s Progress Report
Report Period: 2/28/2014

Page 31 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Construction Bureau Progress Report ending 2/28/2014

14-1906
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Northbrook, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter and execute
Goods or Services: The Village of Northbrook will design and construct improvements along Sanders
Road from Techny Road to Lake Cook Road, including installation of a new traffic signal system and a
new emergency vehicle pre-emptive device (EVPD) system.
Location: Sanders Road, Techny Road to Lake Cook Road in the Village of Northbrook
Centerline Mileage: 2.46 miles
Section: 13-W2445-07-RS
County Board District: 14
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact:

$248,000.00 ($127,000.00 to be reimbursed from the Village of Northbrook)

Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Village will reimburse the County for its share of the traffic signal and EVPD
construction costs, estimated total Village share $127,000.00.
This Agreement follows a request from the Village and is necessitated by the improvement in accordance
with County practice regarding cost sharing of signalized intersections.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s
Office.

Page 32 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-1907
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): A Lamp Concrete Contractors, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
Action: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): Work as required to complete the improvement, has been completed under the
supervision and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Highways.
Location of Project: Quentin Road, Illinois Avenue to Northwest Highway in the Village of Palatine
Section: 11-V6244-02-RS
County Board District: 14
Contract Number: 11-28-158
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $3,087,960.88. Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: -$694,614.62 or 18% below the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: The completed construction project consists of repair of existing distressed concrete
pavement with patches, removal and replacement of combination concrete curb and gutter, resurfacing
with polymerized leveling binder (machine method), polymerized hot-mix asphalt surface course,
including complete removal of existing median including curb and gutter and replacement with portland
cement concrete base over subbase granular material, scarification of existing median, drainage additions
and adjustments, traffic signal modifications including replacement of loop detectors at signalized
intersections, signing, striping, landscaping restoration of the parkway with topsoil and sodding, traffic
protection and other related road work.
The awarded contract amount of this project was $3,782,575.50 and the final construction cost is
$3,087,960.88. The decrease reflects the deduction in patching, asphalt related items and landscaping per
field conditions.

Page 33 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2119
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Arrow Construction, Mount Prospect, Illinois
Action: Approval
Good(s) or Service(s): Work as required to complete the improvement, has been completed under the
supervision and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Transportation and Highways.
Location of Project: Group 3 2012 Euclid Avenue, Elmhurst Road (IL-83) to Wolf Road Euclid
Avenue, over Illinois Rte. 53 in the Villages of Mount Prospect, Palatine and Wheeling, in the Cities of
Prospect Heights and Rolling Meadows.
Section: 11-A5916-06-RS
County Board District: 14, 15, 17
Contract Number: 12-28-060
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $1,642,271.39 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: $15,644.19 or 1% above the
Construction Contract Bid Amount
Summary: The completed construction project consists of milling of the existing hot-mix asphalt
surface on Euclid Avenue from Elmhurst Road to Wolf Road, base repair with concrete patching, and
resurfacing with polymerized leveling binder (machine method) and polymerized hot-mix asphalt surface
course, combination concrete curb and gutter removal and replacement, drainage adjustments,
replacement of detector loops, pavement markings, traffic protection, also including work at Euclid
Avenue and IL-53 consisting of joint seal repair, approach slab repair and other miscellaneous structural
repairs, traffic control consisting of lane closures, as required, temporary concrete barriers and temporary
striping also including the improvements to Quentin Road consisting of removal and replacement of
combination concrete curb and gutter and drainage additions adjustments including catch basin
installation, all other related work and miscellaneous appurtenances, has been completed under the
supervision and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.

Page 34 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

The awarded contract amount of this project was $1,626,627.20 and the final construction cost is
$1,642,271.39. The increase was due to additional quantities of drainage related items, which were
required per field conditions.

14-2258
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): State of Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an interagency agreement
Description: This Economic Development Agreement is necessitated by the improvement and is needed
to provide a safe and sustainable highway to accommodate increased truck and vehicular traffic
associated with a new commercial development and supports development of the regional economy in
accordance with the Department’s mission statement.
Location: 151st Street, Vincennes Road to 2nd Avenue in the City of Harvey and the Village of Phoenix
County Board District: 5
Centerline Mileage: 0.30 miles
Agreement Period: N/A
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $1,300,000.00 ($819,903.00 to be reimbursed from the State of Illinois
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: This Economic Development Program Agreement between the State of Illinois and the County
of Cook, wherein Cook County will be the lead agency to let, award a contract and supervise roadway
reconstruction improvements including concrete curb and gutter removal and replacement, drainage
additions and adjustments, pavement marking, signing and landscaping along 151st Street from
Vincennes Road to 2nd Avenue, to be identified as Cook County Section: 13-23932-01-RP (estimated
construction cost $1,300,000.00). The State will pay for a maximum $819,903.00 of the project
construction costs and the County of Cook will be responsible for the remaining balance, an estimated
$480,097.00. Further, this Department is coordinating with the Cook County Bureau of Economic
Development for the allocation of $450,000.00 from the CDBG program toward this improvement.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department

Page 35 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2305
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CHANGE IN PLANS AND EXTRA WORK (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): A. Lamp Concrete Contractors, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
Action: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges
Section: 11-A6607-04-RP
Contract Number(s): N/A
Location: Schaumburg Road Barrington to Roselle Road in the Villages of Schaumburg and Hoffman
Estates.
Board District: 15
Good(s) or Service(s): Adjustment in Quantities
Fiscal Impact: $39,640.35 increase
Accounts: 600-600
Summary: On 2/8/2013, a contract was awarded to A. Lamp Concrete Contractors, Inc., Schaumburg,
Illinois for theaforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and specifications.
The quantities as shown on the contract documents were estimated for bidding purposes only. This
change represents the difference between the estimated quantities and actual field quantities of work
performed with additional quantities required to patch the deteriorated concrete pavement, per field
conditions.

Page 36 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

14-2264
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
JOB ORDER CONTRACT
Department:

Office of Capital Planning and Policy

Summary:
The Office of Capital Planning and Policy, as authorized by the Cook County Chief
Procurement Officer, plans to participate in the Cook County’s Job Order Contract (JOC) program to
complete the three (3) capital projects listed below. JOC is a quantity based procurement process that
allows facility owners to complete a multitude of repair/maintenance and construction projects with a
single, competitively bid contract. The JOC process generally involves first selecting a pool of potential
contractors through a competitive procurement process, and then identifying projects for such selected
contractors.
The County has already completed a JOC competitive procurement process, and it has created the pool of
generated contractors to perform certain projects generally associated with Maintenance, repairs,
replacement and routine work.
The JOC program has an administrative component managed by the Gordian Group. The Gordian Group
maintains an area price book, which captures the prices for specific construction work items within this
region. JOC contractors bid against the prices included in the price book. The cost, therefore, of any
work performed by the contractor is a contractor markup form the price book. The Gordian Group would
receive 5% administrative fee from Cook County based on the total project cost of the work. The
Gordian Group will manage the JOC process and will verify that all proposals and work are compliant
with the terms and conditions outlined in the JOC contract within the County.
The Office of Capital Planning and Policy, proposes to assign the projects listed below to the Gordian
Group to share with participating JOC contractors.
Project Descriptions:
1. 7th Floor North MIS Server Farm Renovation -This project creates a secure, and energy efficient
data center to be shared by multiple agencies by reconfiguring the computer room and surrounding print
and mail areas. This will eliminate the high cost of supporting user agencies “mini” data rooms located in
many County buildings.
2. Morgue Sinks and Scales Replacements -This project will provide updated sinks and scales,
eliminating delays in the intake & autopsy process, so the morgue can function efficiently. Also the
existing decomp cooler requires HVAC upgrades to maintain temperature as well as the option to provide
freezing temperatures.

Page 37 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

3. Oak Forest Hospital (Homeland Security Building) Roof & Tuck Pointing - This project will
provide tuck pointing to the roof, creating a stable mounting surface for radio communication antennas.
This will prevent water infiltration.
Budgets:
7th Floor North MIS Server Farm Renovation
Morgue Sinks and Scales Replacements
Oak Forest Hospital (Homeland Security Building Roof & Tuck Pointing
Total

$803,000.00
$357,000.00
$500,000.00
$1,660,000.00

Schedule: N/A
Account(s): County Physical Plant – 20000

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

14-2251
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
MICHAEL JASSO, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Department of Planning and Development in the Bureau of Economic Development
Vendor: Amerinational Community Services, Inc., Albert Lea, Minnesota
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute

Good(s) or Service(s): HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) Loan Servicing and
Accounts Payable Professional Services
Contract Value: $900,000.00
Contract period: 5/1/2014 - 04/30/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: None
Accounts: 772-847
Contract Number(s): 1388-12982

Page 38 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance
The Chief Procurement Officer Concurs
Summary: This contract will be utilized to support HOME-eligible professional services related to
Loan Servicing and Accounts Payable. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for these services.
Amerinational Community Services, Inc. was selected based on meeting the qualifications and
experience to perform the services requested.

14-2252
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PULSARLUBE U.S.A. INC. 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Pulsarlube U.S.A., Inc. and Resolution No. 43-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 1480 Howard Street, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois,
Cook County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-27-203-036-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and a purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is
deemed abandoned; and

Page 39 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b ; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for one (1) month, at the time of application, with a purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create three to eight (3-8) new full-time
jobs; retain seven (7) full-time jobs; and create 16-18 construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; there has been a purchase for value and there is a need
of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 1480
Howard Street, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2253
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MIDWEST MOVING & STORAGE, INC. 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Midwest Moving & Storage, Inc. and Resolution No. 57-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for
an abandoned industrial facility located at 1717 Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois,
Cook County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-101-029-0000; and

Page 40 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months and
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for three (3) months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create 5 new full-time jobs and 5
part-time jobs and retain 30 full-time jobs and 20 part-time jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months and there will be purchased for value pending approval
of the Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 1717
Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 41 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2254
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
240 STANLEY, LLC
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from 240
Stanley, LLC. and Resolution No. 36-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 240 Stanley Street, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County
District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-22-302-025-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b ; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed
abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 27 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated 10-17 new full-time jobs and 10 construction
jobs; and

Page 42 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for over 24 months and there will be no purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 240
Stanley Street, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2256
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ELLA HOLDINGS, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Ella
Holdings, LLC and Resolution No. 45-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 800 Morse Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County
District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-102-029-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

Page 43 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months and a
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for 18 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will retain five to ten (5-10) full-time jobs,
two (2) part-time jobs, two to five (2-5) new full-time jobs and two (2) part-time jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the
Class 6b; and is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 800
Morse Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 44 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2257
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
820 GREENLEAF, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from 820
Greenleaf, LLC and Resolution No. 50-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 820 Greenleaf Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook
County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-100-064-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and a purchase for value, by a
purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special
circumstances justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months and a
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for 18 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will retain four (4) full-time jobs, four (4)
part-time jobs, three (3) new full-time jobs and two (2) part-time jobs; and

Page 45 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; has been purchased for value; and is in need of
substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 820
Greenleaf Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2268
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
REQUEST TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM
Department: Department of Planning and Development
Request: Requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to approve as
amended
Item Number: 13-2091
Previously Approved Date: 12/4/2013
The amendment is indicated by the underscored and stricken language.
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
JOHN O’KEEFE OR ASSIGNEE REQUEST FOR CLASS 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial
facility; and

Page 46 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from John
O’Keefe or Assignee and Resolution No. 20-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 70 Gordon Street, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County
District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-21-401-019-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of the abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of
the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of under 24 months and purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property is deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a Resolution
abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b; and

by the County Board validating the property is deemed

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been
abandoned for 22 months, at the time of application, with no a purchase for value and that special
circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will retain three (3) full -time jobs and two ( 2) part-time jobs; create an
estimated five (5) new full-time jobs, and two-three (2-3) construction jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal Resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for over under 24 months; there will have be no a purchase for value; and there
is a need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 70
Gordon Street, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with
special circumstances under the Class 6b; and

Page 47 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2279
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HANOVER DISPLAYS INC. OR ASSIGNEE 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Hanover Displays Inc. or Assignee and Resolution No. 46-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for
an abandoned industrial facility located at 1601 Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois,
Cook County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-101-030-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the
seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from
the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market
value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months and a
purchase for value; and

Page 48 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for two (2) months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create nine (9) new full-time jobs;
retain 12 full-time jobs and three (3) part-time jobs; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the
Class 6b; and is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 1601
Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances
under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

14-2286
Presented by: HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners and
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, Cook County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ARKMAN LOGISTICS, INC. 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility;
and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from
Arkman Logistics, Inc. and Resolution No. 52-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 2200 Estes Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County
District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-35-200-017-0000; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has defined abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after
having been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest; and

Page 49 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify finding
that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months and a
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was
abandoned for nine (9) months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and
WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create one (1) new full-time jobs and
two (2) part-time jobs; retain five (5) full-time jobs and create three to five (3 to 5) construction jobs;
and
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on this specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the
property has been vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the
Class 6b; and is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office
stipulating that it is in compliance with the County’s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class
6b incentive on the subject property.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 2200
Estes Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special
circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 50 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION

14-2122
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LICENSE AGREEMENT (IGA)
Department: Real Estate Management
Licensor: City of Chicago
Licensee: County of Cook
Using Agency: Cook County Sheriff
Request: Approval of an Intergovernmental Agreement for License
Location: 3559 South Maplewood, Chicago, Illinois
Agreement Period: Commencing upon Board Approval, expiring 12/31/2017
Termination: By either party with a 60-day prior written notice
Space Occupied: 3,700 Square feet
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Summary: The Cook County Sheriff’s Office will use a portion of the Premises as a Sheriff’s Work
Alternative Program (SWAP) site. The City of Chicago acknowledges that the Sheriff has been in
possession of space in a City-owned garage located at 1528 S. Loomis, utilized for washing County
vehicles, under a verbal agreement for many years. The City has notified the Sheriff that the City's
Department of Health will now be utilizing the entire building for emergency storage, and therefore the
Sheriff must vacate the space. Since some of the SWAP services delivered by County directly benefit the
City’s Department of Streets and Sanitation and pursuant to the City of Chicago/Cook County
collaboration initiative, the City has agreed to provide County with alternate space allowing the Sheriff’s
Office to continue its SWAP related activities in the area.
The City is responsible for all costs of operating the building and the Premises including utilities,
custodial services and snow removal. County shall pay for telephone and other communication services
supplied to the Premises.

Page 51 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2316
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LICENSE AGREEMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a License Agreement
Licensor: County of Cook
Licensee: William Rainey Harper College
Location:

Fifth Municipal District Courthouse, 10220 S. 76th Street, Bridgeview, Illinois

Term/Extension Period: 4/1/2014 to 3/31/2019
Space Occupied: Portion of the northeast parking lot
Monthly Rent: Waived
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Option to Renew: After initial term Agreement shall be automatically renewed for successive one (1)
year periods unless terminated by either party
Termination: By either party, effective upon sixty (60) days prior written notice.
Utilities Included: N/A
Summary/Notes: Under the proposed license, Harper College would offer motorcycle safety education
courses (the “Program”) to Illinois drivers in an effort to reduce the number and severity of motorcycle
related accidents and injuries in the State of Illinois. These courses were previously offered at the site by
the University of Illinoi-Urbana at Champaign.
At the end of last year’s training season the Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of Traffic
Safety realigned its training region boundaries, making Cook County its own training region. Harper
College has taken over the responsibility formerly held by the University of Illinois-Urbana at
Champaign for all training conducted in Cook County.
Harper will utilize a portion of the northeast parking lot for placement of a mobile classroom and
equipment trailer belonging to Licensee and as a riding area for students enrolled in the Program. At
season’s end both units will be stored at Harpers campus in Palatine. Cook County residents have
expressed appreciation for the County’s cooperation in providing a site for this very popular program.

Page 52 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

14-2290
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Interim Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department:

Facilities Management

Request: Transfer of Funds
Reason: Allow Facilities to rent additional institutional equipment
From Account(s): 200-450 $30,000.00
To Account(s):

200-638 $30,000.00

Total Amount of Transfer: $30,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?
It became apparent on 3/25/2014 that account #638 would need additional funds. The balance on
2/25/2014 in account #638 was $16,936.00
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified? List any other accounts
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.
Account #450 was chosen because of the amount of funds that have not been encumbered.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.
None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.
This account was chosen because of the unobligated amount in the repair building and institutional
supplies.

Page 53 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

14-2287
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller; TASHA CRUZAT, Interim Chief, Bureau
of Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resources Biweekly Activity Reports for Pay Periods 3 and 4.
Report Period: Pay Period 3: 01/12/2014 - 01/25/2014 and Pay Period 4: 01/26/2014 - 02/08/2014
Summary: Submitting the Human Resources Activity Reports covering the pay periods listed above.

14-2297
Presented by: TASHA CRUZAT, Interim Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MAP CHAPTER 507 INTEREST ARBITRATION AWARD AND SALARY SCHEDULES
WHEREAS, the County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County and the Metropolitan Alliance of Police
(MAP) 507 representing the Telecommunications Supervisors entered into a Compulsory Interest
Arbitration under the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1, et seq.); and
WHEREAS, an Interest Arbitration Award has been issued concerning unresolved salary issues covering
the period of December 1, 2010 through November 30, 2012.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that this Award and Salary Schedules shall be submitted to
the Cook County Board of Commissioners for referral to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor for review
and recommendation; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that upon approval of this Award, the Bureau of Human Resources
and Office of the Cook County Comptroller are hereby authorized to implement the Salary Schedules and
wage adjustments as indicated in the Award.

Page 54 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

14-2298
Presented by: TASHA CRUZAT, Interim Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SEIU LOCAL 73 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS - OFFICES UNDER THE
PRESIDENT
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2008 through November
30, 2012 have been negotiated between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union
(SEIU) Local 73 representing employees in the following County Departments: Animal Control,
Building & Zoning, Law Library, Highway Clericals, Highway Supervisors, Facilities Management,
Technical & Engineering, Procurement Clericals, Environmental Control, Bureau of Technology, Office
of the Comptroller, Public Administrator, Zoning Board of Appeals; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases have already been approved and are
reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreements negotiated between
the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
refer to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor for review and recommendation the Collective Bargaining
Agreements between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73
provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

14-2299
Presented by: TASHA CRUZAT, Interim Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SEIU LOCAL 73 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS - OFFICES UNDER
SEPARATELY ELECTED OFFICIALS
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and

Page 55 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

WHEREAS, Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2008 through November
30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, have been
negotiated between the County of Cook, Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Sheriff, the County Clerk and
Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases have already been approved and are
reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreements negotiated between
the County of Cook, Recorder of Deeds, Cook County Sheriff (administrative and clerical), the County
Clerk (administrative and supervisors) and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
refer to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor for review and recommendation the Collective Bargaining
Agreements between the County of Cook and the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73
provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.
BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

14-2269
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s):

Bureau of Technology

Vendor: SunGard Availability Services LP, Wayne, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute.
Good(s) or Service(s): Information Security, Compliance and Incident Response Services
Contract Value: $1,364,123.00
Contract period:

5/1/2014 - 4/30/2018, with two (2) two-year extension options

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2014 $228,443.00; FY2015: $340,704.00; FY2016:
$340,704.00; FY2017: $340,704.00; FY2018: $113,568.00
Accounts: 769-260 Account
Contract Number(s): 1350-12461
Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance..
The Chief Procurement Officer Concurs

Page 56 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: In 2013, Cook County issued an RFP for Information Security, Compliance and Incident
Response services, which resulted in the contract that BOT now seeks authorization for the CPO to
execute. Procuring the services of information security experts is a critical step to improving the
County’s information security practices, achieving compliance with applicable information security
regulations and best practices, and properly handling information security incidents.
Cook County provides services for approximately 5.3 million residents. Many of these services handle
sensitive information including social security numbers, credit card numbers, and personal health
information. With the assistance of information security consulting experts, the County can enhance its
information security program by performing nationally recognized risk assessments, enhancing the
County’s information security framework, performing additional cyber security monitoring and testing,
and improving its incident response and forensic response capabilities. In addition to the objectives
identified above, other desired outcomes include the protection personal information of County residents
and the mitigation of cyber-security risks.

14-2271
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: IBM Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Equipment maintenance and software subscription services for the County’s
existing AS-400 (i-Series) midrange computers
Current Contract Period: 4/23/2013 - 4/22/2016
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $215,485.27
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/17/2013, $215,485.27
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $485,793.98
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014: $ 242,896.99 [$230,000.00 (490-441 Account); $12,896.99
(016-441 Account)]; FY 2015: $ 242,896.99 (490-441 Account); FY 2016: $0.00

Page 57 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Accounts: 490-441; 016-441
Contract Number(s): 1384-12416
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: On 4/17/2013, the Board approved a three-year contract with IBM, in the amount of
$215,485.27; however, the item submitted to the Board and the contract did not reflect the three year
contract value. BOT now seeks approval to correct the contract amount to properly reflect the County’s
needs for the duration of this contract. If approved, this contract amendment will allow BOT to receive
uninterrupted hardware maintenance and software subscription services on existing AS-400, i-Series
platform, processors and equipment during the next two years. This platform is essential to Cook County
Government operations. Many critical information systems run on AS-400 (i-Series).

14-2274
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Bureau of Technology
Other Part(ies): South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association, Hazel Crest, Illinois
Request: BOT respectfully requests that the County Board authorize an intergovernmental agreement
with the South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association
Goods or Services: An indefeasible right of use to eight dark fiber optic cable strands along the I-57
corridor.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: 410/2014 through 4/9/2034
Fiscal Impact: $177,000.00 [FY2014: $27,000.00 (715-579 Account)],[FY2015: $7,500.00; FY2016:
$7,500.00; FY2017: $7,500.00; FY2018: $7,500.00; FY2019: $7,500.00; FY2020: $7,500.00; FY2021:
$7,500.00; FY2022: $7,500.00; FY2023: $7,500.00; FY2024: $7,500.00; FY2025: $7,500.00; FY2026:
$7,500.00; FY2027: $7,500.00; FY2028: $7,500.00; FY2029: $7,500.00; FY2030: $7,500.00; FY2031:
$7,500.00; FY2032: $7,500.00; FY2033: $7,500.00; FY2034: $7,500.00 (499-220 Account)]
Accounts: 715-579; 499-220

Page 58 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: Under the intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”), Cook County will receive a 20-year
indefeasible right of use (“IRU”) for eight strands of dark fiber optic cable running along the I-57
corridor. These fibers will enable the County’s Oak Forest campus and Markham courthouse to connect
to what will ultimately be a high-capacity fiber backbone for Cook County. Also under the IGA,
SSMMA will be responsible for maintenance and repairs to the fiber. In exchange, the County will pay
SSMMA a one-time upfront fee of $18,000.00 and an annual maintenance fee of $7,500.00 in each year
of the 20-year agreement. Additionally, Cook County will pay its proportionate share of any non-routine
maintenance and repair costs, along with SSMMA and other entities that hold IRUs in the same fiber
path.
The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office has approved this IGA as to form.

14-2296
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Gartner, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Online Subscription-Based Research and Related Services
Current Contract Period: 5/1/2012 - 4/30/2014
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $245,600.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/1/2012, $219,600.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/7/2013, $26,000.00
This Increase Requested: $172,800.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:
$32,800.00 (545-260)]

FY 2014: $172,800.00 [$90,000.00 (009-260); $50,000.00 (490-441);

Accounts: 009-260, 490-441, 545-260
Contract Number(s): 12-90-098

Page 59 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: On 5/1/2012, the Board approved a two-year contract with Gartner, Inc., in the amount of
$219,600.00. BOT now seeks approval to extend the contract for one additional year, as well as to
include the additional subscription license for the Gartner Enterprise IT Leaders Application, which will
be accessed by the Department of Finance. If approved, this contract amendment will allow BOT,
Treasurer, Sheriff, Health and Hospital System, and Finance to have access to most current technology
research and advisory services well known in the IT industry.

14-2301
Presented by: MARY JO HORACE, Interim Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Securus Technologies, Inc., Dallas, Texas
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and amend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Telephone services for Cook County jails and detention centers
Current Contract Period: 9/15/2008 - 12/15/2014
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 12/16/2014 - 12/15/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: N/A
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/20/2007
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 3/1/2011 (amendment to scope only), Extension Period
12/18/2012, Extension Period 9/15/2013 - 12/15/2014
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact:

None

Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): 08-45-256

Page 60 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Concurrences:
The Chief Procurement Officer Concurs
Summary: Through an amendment to Contract 08-45-256, the County desires to lower the cost of
telephone calls that detainees in County facilities place to their friends, private defense counsel, and
families. In 2008, the County awarded a competitively procured contract to Securus Technologies, Inc.,
to provide pay telephone service to detainees and investigative tools for the County Sheriff.
The proposed amendment will significantly lower the cost of detainee phones. Specifically, the
amendment will: (a) eliminate the current $1 per-call connection fee for detainee calls; (b) lower the
per-minute call rate from $0.20/min to $0.175/min; (c) eliminate the $1.99 monthly fee that cellular
phone call recipients incurred when receiving detainee calls; and (d) strengthen the contractor’s
obligations around reporting, service levels, and transitioning out at contract expiration.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY

14-1380
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities, Inc. (TASC), Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Services
Contract Value: $541,330.00
Contract period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2017 with two (2) one (1) year options to renew
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014: $105,260.00, FY 2015: $180,443.00, FY 2016:
$180,443.00, FY 2017: $75,184.00
Accounts: 326-298 (3260767 - 521320) Special or Cooperative Programs
Contract Number(s): 1323-12649
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Page 61 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: Services are provided under Contract 09-41-269, scheduled to expire on 4/30/2014. In 2013,
the Chief Procurement Officer issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) for these services for the Juvenile
Probation and Court Services Department. The RFP procedures were followed in accordance with Cook
County’s Procurement Code. TASC was the sole responder to the RFP and is recommended for the
contract based on its qualifications and extensive experience providing such services to the Circuit Court
under the current contract. In FY2013, TASC provided services to 1,473 court-involved youth.
TASC currently performs initial screenings, assessments, diagnostic services, substance abuse testing and
chain of custody monitoring and support services for delinquent minors under the supervision of the
Circuit Court’s Juvenile Probation and Court Services Department. These are minors who have been
identified in one of the following three service tracks: 1) minors under general supervision; 2) nonviolent
minors participating in the Circuit Court’s Drug Treatment Program who reside in and around the Austin
and Lawndale communities in Chicago; and 3) minors referred to the Circuit Court’s Detention
Reduction Project (DRP), which serves nonviolent delinquent minors residing in Chicago’s Englewood,
Lawndale, Back of the Yards, Little Village, Marquette Park, Auburn-Gresham, and Roseland
communities. The new contract will permit expansion into the Austin and Humboldt Park communities.

14-1507
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Circuit Court of Cook County, Office of the Chief Judge
Vendor: Chicago Bar Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Services
Contract Value: $196,680.00
Contract period: 5/1/2014 - 4/30/2017, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $37,151.33, FY 2015 $64,768.92, FY 2016
$66,655.17, FY 2017 $28,104.58 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options.
Accounts: 310-260
Contract Number(s): 1390-13098.
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Page 62 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary:
Services are currently provided by Chicago Bar Foundation (CBF) under Contract
No.10-41-201, scheduled to expire on 4/30/2014. Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures were followed in
accordance with Cook County’s Procurement Code. In 2013, the Chief Procurement Officer issued an RFP
for these services for the Office of the Chief Judge. The CBF was the sole responder to the RFP. The CBF is
recommended for the contract based on its qualifications and extensive experience providing help desk
services to the Circuit Court of Cook County, the federal court and the City of Chicago.
Since 1995, the CBF has overseen the operation of the off-site legal services and the provision of
volunteer attorneys for the Circuit Court’s Guardianship Assistance Help Desk for Minors, located on the
tenth floor of the George W. Dunne Administration Building. Every year, Help Desk provides free legal
assistance to thousands of pro-se litigants who are seeking to obtain guardianship of minors in the
Probate Division of the Circuit Court of Cook County. The role of the CBF is to coordinate the efforts of
more than 200 volunteer lawyers who work in conjunction with court staff to ensure litigants find
available legal assistance. In addition, CBF partners with Chicago Volunteer Legal Services (CVLS) to
give the Help Desk access to more than 2,000 attorneys willing to provide pro bono legal assistance to
the litigants. The CBF also conducts trainings for all volunteers.
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT

14-0352
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: DDW & Associates, Palatine, Illinois
Request: Requesting authorization for an increase by $104,830.00 and extension on a month-to-month
basis for ten (10) months.
Good(s) or Service(s): Rental of Shelving and Forklift located at 1120 E. 89th Street, Chicago, Illinois
Original Contract Period: 3/16/2009 - 2/28/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$623,738.50

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 2/4/2009, $125,796.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 1st Extension (3/16/2010, $94,347.00); 2nd Extension
(11/16/2010, $125,796.00); 3rd Extension (11/15/2011, $125,796.00); 4th Extension (2/27/2013,
$20,966.00); 5th Extension (3/20/2013, $68,139.50); 6th Extension (7/31/2013, $62,898.00)
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A

Page 63 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

This Increase Requested: $104,830.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: $104,830.00
Accounts: 529-660
Contract Number(s): 09-84-08
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: DDW & Associates/REB Storage Systems International was selected from two (2) vendor
bids received through the open market bid process. The contract for the rental of shelving was approved
by the County Board on 2/4/2009. The vendor designed, installed, and anchored the shelving to the 89th
Street warehouse floor. The temporary storage shelving system is needed by the Clerk of the Circuit
Court to maintain a total of 3,072 pallets of court documents until space is made available at the new
Cicero Record Center.
Due to the fact that the new Cicero Record Center construction is still in process, we believe that it is
more cost effective and efficient to retain the expertise and services of the current vendor.
If the current contract were to be rebid, the County would incur additional costs for the reconstruction of
shelving, or reloading of pallets, and incur possible increases in labor costs needed for staff to search for
the location of pallets/documents during the reconstruction. Additionally, the Clerk of the Circuit Court
would experience delays in the retrieval and delivery of court documents during the reconstruction of the
shelving.

14-2211
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Moore Security Services, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to amend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Unarmed Security for the Clerk of the Circuit Court
Original Contract Period: 5/1/2013 - 4/13/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: N/A

Page 64 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

April 9, 2014

$360,116.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/17/2013, $259,550.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 9/5/2013, $11,000.00 Medical
Examiner; 11/20/2013, $49,397.00 Clerk of the Circuit Court; 2/7/2014, $38,889.60 Clerk of the Circuit
Court; 2/24/2014 $1,279.40 Medical Examiner
This Increase Requested: $66,384.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014, $66,384.00
Accounts: 529-660
Contract Number(s): 13-53-016
Concurrences:
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The amendment and increase of the contract is needed in order to provide temporary
unarmed security services to the Clerk of the Circuit Court warehouse facility located at 4545 W.
Cermak, Chicago, Illinois during the rebid period. It is anticipated that a new contract for unarmed
security will be in place by 10/1/2014.
OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

14-1810
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Pacific Care Products, San Francisco, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Hygiene Supplies
Original Contract Period: 4/3/2012 - 4/2/2014

Page 65 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/3/2014 - 4/2/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$1,074,970.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/3/2012 $659,170.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/2/2012 - $415,800.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $329,820.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2014 $219,880.00; FY 2015 $109,940.00
Accounts: 239-330, 440-330, 200-330
Contract Number(s): 11-85-133
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: Cook County Sheriff’s Office is exercising the first renewal option for Contract Number
11-85-133 for the purchase of hygiene supplies for the Cook County Department of Corrections.
Facilities Management and the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) also utilize this contract for
hygiene supplies.

14-2021
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County; ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial
Officer, Sheriff's Office
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REGARDING COOK COUNTY SHERIFF’S POLICE CHANGE IN SIGNATORIES ON BANK
ACCOUNTS
WHEREAS, The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.

Page 66 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking account and/or savings accounts at
Seaway Bank and Trust Company for the following purposes, be updated for the Sheriff’s Police
Department, 1505 Holding Trust Fund, 1505 Operations, Federal Justice Account, Federal Treasury
Account, Money Laundering Account, ERPS Holding Account, 810 Contingency Fund, Special
Operations Investigations, DUI-Enforcement, Administrative Tow Revenue and Women’s Justice
Services Funds; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, this the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatories of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Kevin Ruel
Alexis A. Herrera
Scott Cassidy
Thomas W. Fleming
Brian White
Marlon L. Parks

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore designated to be signatory shall
be deleted:
1. John Konrad
2. Dana Wright
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said account for deposit with the Cook
County Treasurer/Comptroller be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of account in the Office of the Comptroller.

14-2054
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County; ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial
Officer, Sheriff's Office
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REGARDING COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS INMATE WELFARE
FUND CHANGE IN SIGNATORIES
WHEREAS, The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks;
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.

Page 67 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking account and/or savings account at
Marquette Bank for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections, Inmate
Welfare Fund.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Cara Smith
Sojourner Colbert
Deborah Boecker
George Holly
Nneka Jones

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore designated to be signatory shall
be deleted:
1. John G. Murphy
2. Martha Salazar
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said account for deposit with the Cook
County Treasurer/Comptroller be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of account in the Office of the Comptroller.

14-2055
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County; ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial
Officer, Sheriff's Office
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REGARDING COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS INMATE TRUST FUND
CHANGE IN SIGNATORIES
WHEREAS, The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks;
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings account.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking account and/or savings account at Fifth
Third Bank for the following purposes, be updated for the Department of Corrections Inmate Trust Fund
Account.

Page 68 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following are the names of those persons who are authorized
to sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatures of at least two (2) of
these shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Cara Smith
Sojourner Colbert
Deborah Boecker
George Holly
Nneka Jones

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore designated to be signatory shall
be deleted:
1. John G. Murphy
2. Martha Salazar
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said account for deposit with the Cook
County Treasurer/Comptroller be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of
collections and designation of account in the Office of the Comptroller.

14-2102
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Vendor: Robert R. Egan, Evanston, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Compliance Officer for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Contract Value: $227,000.00
Contract period: 4/19/2014 - 4/18/2016 with two (2) one-year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $66,210.00, FY 2015 $113,500.00, FY2016 $47,290.00
Accounts: 210-260
Contract Number(s): 1411-13576
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.

Page 69 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This contract will allow Robert R. Egan to continue to serve as the Compliance Officer for
the Cook County Sheriff’s Office. Mr. Egan is responsible for the internal monitoring of employment
actions and promotional processes as required by the Sheriff’s Employment Action Manual. Mr. Egan
will ensure the Sheriff’s Office continued compliance with the Court approved dismissal of the Shakman
Agreed Order. Additionally, Mr. Egan is responsible for training all Sheriff’s employees as a condition to
achieving substantial compliance with the Decree.

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY

14-2191
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee:

Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office

Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: The grant will provide funding for a total of 13 victim specialists including two (2) Juvenile
Court Specialists who are dedicated to serving victims of juvenile offenders.
Grant Amount: $742,227.00
Grant Period: 12/1/2013 - 11/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: $307,441.00
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 3/20/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $742,227.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

Page 70 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

Summary: The grant will provide funding for a total of 13 victim specialists including two (2) Juvenile
Court Specialists who are dedicated to serving victims of juvenile offenders, one (1) TAC Specialist who
provides direct services to victims of high-risk domestic violence cases, seven (7) Victim Generalists
who provide services to victims of all types of felony crimes and one (1) Polish-Speaking Specialist and
two (2) Spanish-Speaking Specialists who provide services to non-English speaking victims.

14-2201
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose:
Provides continued funding for the Sexual Assault/Domestic Violence Prosecution
Coordination Program, which enables the State’s Attorney’s Office to better utilize staff and resources to
effectively address the combined issues of sexual assault and domestic violence.
Grant Amount: $665,879.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2014 - 12/31/2014
Fiscal Impact: $335,748.00
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 1/16/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $665,879.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: This grant will provide continued funding for the Sexual Assault/Domestic Violence
Prosecution Coordination Program, which enables the State’s Attorney’s Office to better utilize staff and
resources to effectively address the combined issues of sexual assault and domestic violence. This
program provides funding to allow the State’s Attorney’s Office to dedicate four (4) assistant state’s
attorneys, two (2) investigators, two (2) victim specialists, one (1) Domestic Violence Resource Center
Coordinator and one (1) administrative assistant. This grant requires that our office match one dollar for

Page 71 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

each three dollars of federal funding. The match commitment for this program is a cash match that
supports the full salary and fringe benefits of one (1) assistant state’s attorney, a portion of the salary of
one (1) assistant state’s attorney, as well as a portion of the fringe benefits for the remaining personnel.

14-2242
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; DANIEL KIRK, Chief of Staff,
State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: This award will enhance our Office’s ability to utilize technology to conduct long term
proactive investigations utilizing electronic surveillance in human trafficking cases. Additionally, this
grant award will fund one Human Trafficking Outreach Coordinator to provide direct support to victims
of human trafficking.
Grant Amount: $108,866.00
Grant Period: 10/1/2013 - 09/30/2014
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 2/27/2013
Most Recent Grant Amount: $165,586.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any
Summary: This equipment will allow the Human Trafficking Task Force to effectively and efficiently
collect, analyze and save surveillance data for evidentiary purposes. In addition, this equipment will
enhance the safety of undercover operatives. The Coordinator will also assess the victim’s needs and
identify resources available in the community to address those needs. In addition the Coordinator will
develop relationships with new community partners who may be coming into contact with victims of
human trafficking and of Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (CSEC).

Page 72 of 73

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 9, 2014

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU

14-2396
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED LITIGATION PENDING
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request:

Refer to the Board and/or the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Case Name:

Kevin L. Johnson v. Dart, et al.

Case Number: 13 C 4766

Page 73 of 73

 