POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

County Board Room, County Building
Tuesday, February 9, 2010, 10:00 A.M.
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims, Steele and Suffredin - 16.

Absent:

President Stroger and Commissioner Reyes - 1.

(Matters referred to Committee are available from the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners)

 POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Tuesday, February 9, 2010, 10:00 A.M.
**************************

COMMISSIONERS
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #1
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL &
VETERANS RELATIONS #305004
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY VEHICLE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 82 Traffic & Vehicles,
Sections 82-1 through 82-193 of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 82-1. Vehicle operation generally.
(a) Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
Cycles mean every vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel
on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding a tractor and shall include,
without limitation, any motorized bicycle, motor driven cycle, motorized pedalcycle and dirt bikes all of
which being capable of off-road recreational us.
Snowmobiles mean as provided in 625 ILCS 40/1-2.15.
Vehicles mean as provided in 625 ILCS 5/1-217 (vehicle defined).
(b) Snowmobile operation. It shall be illegal to operate snowmobiles in any unincorporated area
of the County except in those areas of the Forest Preserve where snowmobile operation is specifically
allowed.

 page 2
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) Vehicle operation upon dedicated roadways. It shall be illegal to operate a vehicle as
described in this section in any unincorporated area of the County except upon a dedicated roadway when
properly licensed and permitted by law.
(d) Violation of section. Violation of this section is punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.00.
Sec. 82-2. Speed limits.
All speed limits established by the County Board are hereby ratified and confirmed. All
ordinances amending or enacting speed limits are on file in the office of the County Clerk.
Sec. 82-3. Speed limits within construction or maintenance zones.
(a) Superintendent of Highways authorized to set. The Members of the Board of Commissioners
of hereby authorize the Superintendent of Highways to set and post reduced speed limits for construction
or maintenance zones; as defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.1.
(b) Signing. Such reduced speed limits shall be temporary and be in-effect and in full force from
the time appropriate signing giving notice of the reduced speed limits are erected until such time that said
signing is removed; and
(c) Speed limit signs. Construction or maintenance zone speed limit signs shall:
(1)

Be of a design approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation;

(2)

Give proper warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached;

(3)

Indicate the maximum speed limit in effect; and

(4)

State the amount of the minimum fine for a violation as established by 625
ILCS 5/11-605.1 (special limit while traveling through a highway construction or
maintenance speed zone).

(d) Record of speed limit locations. A record be maintained by the Highway Department
naming each location, the reduced speed limit set and posted for the construction or maintenance zone
and dates during which the reduced speed limit was in effect.
(e) Notification of changes in speed limits. Affected jurisdictions shall be notified of the
changes in the posted speed limits so that they may be properly enforced.

 page 3
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-4. Motor driven scooters.
(a) Motor driven scooter defined. For the purpose of this section, a "motor driven scooter" is
defined as any electric or gas wheeled scooter, cycle or other vehicle for which the State of Illinois does
not issue a title document, and does not issue license plates or registration documents.
(b) Operation of motor driven scooters restricted. No person shall operate a motor driven
scooter upon any public street, sidewalk, parking lot, bike path, park or on any other public property.
(c) Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the prohibitions contained in this section:
(1)

Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, municipal vehicle, special district vehicle,
County vehicle or Forest Preserve District vehicle operated by an employee in the course of
his or her duties.

(2)

Motorized wheelchairs. For purposes of this section, a motorized wheelchair
means any motorized vehicle designed for and used by a person with disabilities.

(3)

Electric personal assistance mobility devices, as defined in Section 5/1117.7 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5-1-100 et seq.).

(d) Applicability of section. Without limitation, this section applies to areas of unincorporated
Cook County, to areas owned or operated by Special Districts within unincorporated Cook County, and to
areas within municipalities within the County which have not adopted ordinances governing the operation
of motorized scooters within the said municipalities. To the extent a municipality has adopted an
ordinance addressing the operation of motorized scooters, or to the extent a municipality adopts an
ordinance electing not to be bound by this section, the ordinance of the municipality shall apply, and this
section shall not apply, to any areas within the jurisdiction of the municipality.
(e) Violations. Any person 18 years of age or older who violates any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense. An
offense committed by a minor under the direct control or with the consent of a parent or guardian may
subject the parent or guardian to the penalties provided in this section.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 82-41. Special weight and load permits.
(a) The County Board hereby declares it necessary to impose upon certain highways, under the
jurisdiction of the County, weight and load restrictions, in accordance with the Illinois Motor Vehicle
Law. The highways to be so designated shall be based upon the recommendations of the County
Superintendent of Highways.

 page 4
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) In the event it is necessary for a vehicle to use a highway, upon which load restriction limits
have been placed and, where load limit restrictions will be exceeded, the County Superintendent of
Highways, in such cases, is hereby authorized to issue a temporary permit for such highway use. The
County Superintendent of Highways be and is hereby directed to submit recommendations to the County
Board concerning load limit restrictions and the highways upon which said load limit restrictions shall be
imposed.
ARTICLE III. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Sec. 82-81. Violations.
(a) Owner responsibility. Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any
provision of sections prohibiting or restricting vehicular standing or parking, the person in whose name
the vehicle is registered with the Secretary of State of Illinois shall be prima facie responsible for the
violation and subject to the penalty therefor.
(b) Parking violation notice. Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provisions
prohibiting or restricting parking or standing, any law enforcement officer observing such violation may
issue a parking violation notice, and serve the notice on the owner of the vehicle by handing it to the
operator of the vehicle, if the owner is present, or by affixing it to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. The
issuer of the notice shall specify on the notice his identification number, the particular parking regulation
allegedly violated, the make and State registration number of the cited vehicle, and the place, date, time
and nature of the alleged violation and shall certify the correctness of the specified information by signing
his name to the notice.
(c) Notice admissible in administrative or legal proceedings. A parking violation notice issued,
signed and served in accordance with this section, or a copy of such notice, shall be prima facie correct
and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the fact shown therein. The notice or copy thereof
shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceedings.
Sec. 82-82. Penalty.
(a) Any violation of this article or any provision of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100
et seq.) prohibiting or restricting vehicular standing or parking shall be a civil offense punishable by fine,
and no criminal penalty, or civil sanction other than that prescribed in this article, shall be imposed.
(b) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of Section 82-95 shall be
fined $10.00 for each offense.
(c) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of Section 82-86 or 82-91
shall be fined $15.00 for each offense.

 page 5
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(d) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of Section 82-90, 82-92,
82-93 or 82-94 shall be fined $25.00 for each offense.
(e) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of Section 82-88 shall be
fined $50.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-83. Prepayment citation system.
(a) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for a prepayment system for violation of
ordinances regulating vehicular standing and parking within the boundaries of the County and thereby
establish a fair and efficient system for the enforcement of such regulations. The system shall be operated
under the supervision of the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
(b) Notice of violation. Any person on whom a parking violation notice has been served shall
within 14 days from the date of the notice either pay the indicated fine or, in the manner indicated on the
notice, request a court hearing to contest the charge, violation or violations.
(c) Second notice of response. If no response is made in accordance with Subsection (b) of this
section, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall serve a second notice of violation, by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the address of the registered owner of the cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State
of Illinois. The notice shall specify the date of a violation, and make and State registration of the cited
vehicle, the code provision violated, the applicable find and penalty in an amount equal to the relevant
fine to be paid by the final notice date or request for hearing. The final notice date for payment shall be 21
days from the initial due date.
(d) Required for court hearing. If the respondent requests a court hearing in person to contest
the cited violation or violations, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall notify the respondent in writing of the
time and place of the hearing.
(e) Failure to pay or request hearing. A notice sent pursuant to Subsections (b), (c) and/or (d)
of this section shall State that failure to pay the indicated fine or failure to request a court hearing will
constitute a debt due and owing the County, and as such may be collected in accordance with applicable
law. Payment in full of any fine and/or penalty resulting from a standing or parking violation shall
constitute a final disposition of that violation.
(f) Notification of State Attorney; penalty. The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall notify the
County State's Attorney of each respondent who fails to make payment or who fails to request a court
hearing pursuant to Sections (b), (c), (d) and/or (e) of this section. Upon being notified by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court, the County State's Attorney shall institute a civil action against the respondent in an amount
of the fine plus a penalty double the relevant fine and costs. Any action instituted and proceeding therein
shall be conducted in accordance with the Rules of the Circuit Court of Cook County, the Code of Civil
Procedure (735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.) and the rules and laws of the State of Illinois.

 page 6
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-84. Exceptions.
The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may park or stand irrespective of the provisions of
this article.
Sec. 82-85. Violation of posted signs; penalty.
(a) No person shall stop, park or leave standing at any time any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, within the right-of-way of any roadway under the jurisdiction of the County where necessary
signs are posted prohibiting parking, which such signs shall be posted at the discretion of the Cook
County Superintendent of Highways.
(b) Every person found guilty of violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be
punished by a fine of not less than $5.00 and not more than $100.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-86. Stopping, standing or parking outside of business or residential district.
(a) Unobstructed width opposite a standing vehicle. Outside a business or residential district, no
person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practical to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway, but in every event an
unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
(b) Posting signs. The Cook County Department of Highways with respect to highways under
its jurisdiction or for the maintenance of which it is responsible may place signs prohibiting or restricting
the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where in its opinion such stopping, standing
or parking is dangerous to those using the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any such regulations adopted by the
Department regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets or
highways become effective at the time of the erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations.
Any such signs may be erected by the Department or by a local authority with the approval of the State
Department of Transportation.
(c) Exception. This section and Sections 82-90 and 82-91 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the vehicle in such position.

 page 7
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-87. Parking privileges for persons with disabilities.
(a) A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a person with disabilities, as defined by.
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1 (person with disabilities defined), pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with
disabilities license plates), or to a disabled veteran pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609 (disabled veterans'
plates), or a special decal or device issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with disabilities license
plates) or pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with disabilities parking) or a
motor vehicle registered in another jurisdiction, State territory or foreign country upon which is displayed
a registration plate, special decal or device issued by the other jurisdiction designating the vehicle is
operated by or for a handicapped person shall be exempt from the payment of parking meter fees and
exempt from ordinances imposing time limitations on parking, except limitations of one-half hour or less,
on any street or highway zone, or any parking lot or parking place which are owned, leased or owned and
leased by a municipality or a municipal parking utility; but, such vehicle shall be subject to the laws
which prohibit parking in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front of or near fire hydrants,
driveways, public building entrances and exits, crosswalks, bus stops and loading areas, and is prohibited
from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic hazard, whereby such motor vehicle shall be
moved at the instruction and request of a law enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer.
Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates or a special decal or device specified in this section or in
625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with disabilities license plates) or such as specifically authorized in 625 ILCS
5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with disabilities parking) as evidence that the vehicle is operated
by or for a person with disabilities or disabled veteran may park, in addition to any other lawful place, in
any parking place specifically reserved for such vehicles by the posting of an official sign.
(b) Parking privileges granted by this section are strictly limited to the person to whom the
special registration plates, special decal or device were issued and to qualified operators acting under his
express direction while the person with disabilities is present.
(c) Such parking privileges granted by this section are also extended to motor vehicles of notfor-profit organizations used for the transportation of persons with disabilities when such motor vehicles
display the decal or device issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with
disabilities parking).
(d) No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle pursuant to Section 82-89
or where an official sign controlling such area expressly prohibits parking at any time or during certain
hours.

 page 8
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-88. Unauthorized use of parking places reserved for persons with disabilities.
(a) Registration plates or decals. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-159.1
(person with disabilities defined) pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with disabilities license plates) or
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with disabilities parking), or to a disabled veteran
pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609 (disabled veterans' plates), as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for
a person with disabilities or disabled veteran, in any parking place, including any private or public offstreet facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign.
(b) Removal of authorized vehicles. Any person or local authority owning or operating any
public or private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Sheriff's Police Department, remove or
cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or
space reserved for use by the handicapped which does not display handicapped registration plates or a
special decal or device as required under this section.
(c) Fine. Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
$50.00, in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any motor vehicle
authorized under this section.
Sec. 82-89. Officers authorized to remove vehicles.
(a) Whenever any law enforcement officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of
Section 82-86, 82-87 or 82-88, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same to a position off the roadway.
(b) Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any street, highway, bridge, causeway,
or in a tunnel, in such a position or under such circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of
traffic. When the County Department of Highways finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle standing upon
the paved or main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or may be expected to interrupt the free
flow of traffic on the highway or interfere with the maintenance of the highway, the County Department
of Highways is authorized to move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled
part of the highway.
(c) Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed to the
nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway when:
(1)

A report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken without
the consent of its owner;

(2) The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to provide for its
custody or removal; or

 page 9
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(3) When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person arrested before a
proper magistrate without unnecessary delay.
Sec. 82-90. Stopping, standing or parking in specified places.
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the law or the
directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device, no person shall:
(1)

Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
a. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
b. On a sidewalk;
c. Within an intersection;
d. On a crosswalk;
e. Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of points
on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a different length
is indicated by signs or markings;
f. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
g. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel;
h. On any railroad tracks;
i. At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
j. On a controlled-access highway;
k. In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.

(2)

Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge passengers:

 page 10
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
a. In front of a public or private driveway;
b. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
c. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
d. Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, yield sign, or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
e. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of such
entrance (when properly sign-posted);
f. At any place where official signs prohibit standing;
g. In a fire lane or within eight feet of the entrance to a fire lane.
(3)

Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the purpose
of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or passengers:
a. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
b. At any place where official signs prohibit parking.

Sec. 82-91. Distance from curb.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a twoway roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
(b) No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under such person's control into any prohibited
area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(c) Except when otherwise provided by local ordinance, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a
one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the
direction of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels
within 12 inches of the left-hand curb or as close as practicable to the left side of the left-hand shoulder.

 page 11
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-92. Unattended motor vehicles.
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the brake
thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
highway.
Sec. 82-93. Parking for certain purposes prohibited.
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway or in any public off-street parking facility for
any of the following purposes:
(1)

To display such vehicle for sale;

(2)

To perform maintenance or repair such vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency;

(3)

To sell merchandise from such vehicle.

Sec. 82-94. Parking of trucks restricted.
(a) No person shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semi-trailer, recreational vehicle more than
22 feet in length, self-contained motor home, or bus on any residential street for a longer period than is
necessary for the reasonably or expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle.
(b) No person shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semitrailer, trailer or self-contained motor
home, or bus on any business street for a longer period than is necessitated for the reasonably expeditious
loading or unloading of such vehicle.
Sec. 82-95. Parking meters.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a designated parking meter zone or space without
depositing a United States coin of the denomination indicated on the meter and putting the meter in
operation or to park any vehicle in such zone or space for a period longer than is designated on the meter
for the value of the coin or coins deposited in the meter; provided, however, these provisions shall not
apply during such hours of the day as designated from time to time by order of the County Board.

 page 12
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
ARTICLE IV. AUTOMATED RED LIGHT TRAFFIC SAFETY SYSTEM
Sec. 82-101. Purpose; establishment of automated red light traffic safety system.
(a) The purpose of this article is to establish an automated red light violation traffic safety
system as provided in Section 11-208.6 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-208.6, which shall be
administered by the Cook County Highway Department, in consultation with the Sheriff of Cook County.
(b) The system shall utilize a traffic control signal monitoring device which records, through
photographic means, the vehicle and the vehicle registration plate of a vehicle operated in violation of
Sections 11-305 and 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 11-306. The photographic
record shall also display the time, date and location of the violation.
(c) A program shall be established which utilizes an automated red light safety system at various
vehicle traffic intersections identified by the Highway Department, with the advice of the Sheriff. The
intersections chosen for the program shall be located throughout the County, upon highways in the
County's maintenance jurisdiction. Signs shall be posted at all intersections equipped with traffic control
signal monitoring devices indicating that the intersection is being monitored by an automated red light
traffic safety system. Upon application by a local municipality, the County may permit, through
intergovernmental agreement, the local municipality to install and maintain such a system and issue
citations, with all cost paid by and all fines paid to the local municipality, at intersections which are under
maintenance and operation jurisdiction of the County, but within the police jurisdiction of such
municipality.
(d) Recorded images made by an automated red light traffic safety system are confidential and
shall be made available only to the alleged violator and governmental and law enforcement agencies for
the purpose of adjudicating a violation of Section 11-208.6 of the Vehicle Code, for statistical purposes,
or for other governmental purposes, but shall be admissible in any court proceeding concerning the
violation.
(e) The Highway Department and the Sheriff shall adopt rules and regulations as may be
necessary for the proper enforcement and administration of this article.
Sec. 82-102. Automated red light violation.
(a) The registered owner of record of a vehicle is liable for a violation of Section 11-208.6 of the
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-208.6, and a fine of $100.00 when the vehicle is used in violation of
Section 11-305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 306, and that violation is
recorded by a traffic control signal monitoring device. If the registered owner fails to pay the fine in a
timely manner, the registered owner shall be subject to an additional penalty of $100.00.

 page 13
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) A photographic recording of a violation obtained by a traffic control signal monitoring
device shall be prima facie evidence of a violation.
(c) It shall be a defense to a violation of Section 11-208.6 of the Vehicle Code that:
(1) The operator of the vehicle was issued a uniform traffic citation for a violation of Section 11305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 306, or similar local ordinance
provision; or
(2) The violation occurred at any time during which the vehicle or its state registration plates
were reported to a law enforcement agency as having been stolen and the vehicle or its plates had not
been recovered by the owner at the time of the alleged violation; or
(3) The vehicle was leased to another, and, within 60 days after the citation was mailed to the
owner, the owner submitted to the Sheriff the correct name and address of the lessee of the vehicle
identified in the citation at the time of the violation, together with a copy of the lease agreement and any
additional information as may be required by the Sheriff. Where the lessor complies with the provisions
of this section, the lessee of the vehicle at the time of the violation shall be deemed to be the owner of the
vehicle for purposes of this chapter. The Sheriff, within 30 days of being notified by the lessor of the
name and address of the lessee, shall mail the lessee a citation which contains the information required
under Section 11-208.6(d) of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-208.6. For the purposes of this article, the
term "leased vehicle" shall be defined as a vehicle in which a motor vehicle dealership or manufacturer
has, pursuant to a written document, vested exclusive possession, use, control and responsibility of the
vehicle to the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or for the lessee.
(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to any authorized emergency vehicle or any
vehicle lawfully participating in a funeral procession.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability of an operator of a vehicle for
any violation of Section 11-305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 306, or
similar local ordinance provision.

 page 14
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-103. Citation notice.
For each violation of Section 11-305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305
and 306, recorded by a traffic control signal monitoring device, the Sheriff shall mail a citation, within 30
days after receiving information about the registered owner of the vehicle from the Secretary of State, to
the registered owner of record of the vehicle used in the commission of the violation. The citation shall
include the name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle; the vehicle make, if available and
readily discernable, and registration number; the offense charged; the time, date and location of the
alleged violation; a copy of the recorded images; a warning that failure to pay the penalty or to contest
liability in a timely manner is an admission of liability and may result in a suspension of the driving
privileges of the registered owner; the applicable fine and where and in what manner payment of the fine
may be made to the Clerk of the Circuit Court prior to the court date; the time and place of the court
hearing at which the registered owner may contest the citation; and that the basis of the citation is a
photographic record obtained by a traffic control signal monitoring device, which has been inspected by a
technician who has determined the vehicle was being operated in violation of Section 11-208.6 of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
Sec. 82-104. Supplementary enforcement.
The program authorized by Section 82-101 shall supplement enforcement of traffic regulations
provided by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code and shall not replace or substitute for enforcement of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code or any other law or ordinance.
ARTICLE I. COOK COUNTY VEHICLE CODE
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 82-1. Title.
This Article of the Cook County Code of Ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the
"Cook County Vehicle Code."
Sec. 82-2. Purpose.
In order to better promote the public safety, health, and welfare of its citizens this Vehicle Code
was established. This Vehicle Code will apply only to areas of unincorporated Cook County and areas
owned or operated by Special Districts within unincorporated Cook County.

 page 15
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-3. Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this subsection except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned vehicle means any vehicle that: (a) is in such a state of disrepair as to render the
vehicle incapable of being driven in its present condition or (b) has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days and is apparently deserted.
Alley means a public way, under the jurisdiction of the County, intended to give access to the rear
or side of lots or buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
Authorized emergency vehicle means any vehicle of any fire department or police department and
any repair, service or other emergency vehicle of a governmental agency or public service corporation
authorized by the Sheriff's police.
Bicycle means every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels and including any device generally recognized as a bicycle though equipped
with two front or two rear wheels.
Boulevard means a through street, except that its use is limited exclusively to certain specified
classes of traffic.
Bridle path means a path designated for travel by persons upon horses.
Bus means every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and used for the
transportation of persons.
Bus stand means a fixed area in the roadway parallel and adjacent to the curb to be occupied
exclusively by buses for layover in operating schedules or waiting for passengers.
Bus stop means a fixed area in the roadway parallel and adjacent to the curb set aside for the
expeditious loading and unloading of passengers only.
Business street means the length of any street between street intersections on which more than 50
percent of the entire frontage at ground level of the street is in use by retail or wholesale businesses,
hotels, banks, office buildings, railway stations, or public buildings other than schools.
Carriage means any device in, upon or by which any person is or may be transported or drawn
upon a public way and designed to be or capable of being drawn by a horse.

 page 16
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Carriage stand means a fixed area in the roadway parallel and adjacent to the curb to be occupied
exclusively by horse-drawn vehicles for loading and unloading passengers or waiting for passengers.
Commercial vehicle means a motor vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or property
in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for hire or not for hire; including but not
limited to a motor vehicle of the first division displaying a placard indicating authorization of the Illinois
Commerce Commission to operate as a motor carrier of property but not including, however, public
passenger vehicles.
Controlled or limited-access highway means every public way in respect to which owners or
occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the
same except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over such public way.
Crossing guard means an adult civilian officially authorized to supervise and expedite the
crossing of school children or other pedestrians at hazardous or congested traffic points.
Crosswalk means that portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the prolongation or
connection of sidewalk lines at intersections, or any other portion of a roadway clearly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by markings.
Department of Revenue means the Cook County Department of Revenue.
Director of Revenue or Revenue Director means the Director of the Cook County Department of
Revenue.
Drag racing means the act of two or more individuals competing or racing on any street or
highway in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle
operated by a competing driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing
or overtaking, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals competing in a race against
time on any street or highway.
Driver means every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
Driveway or private road means every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular
travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner but not by other
persons.
Electric personal assistance mobility device means a self-balancing 2 non-tandem wheeled device
designed to transport only one person with an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum speed
of the device to 15 miles per hour or less.

 page 17
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Firelane means every way or place in private ownership used expressly for vehicular travel by
emergency equipment and marked as such by signs or pavement markings.
Funeral procession means a procession consisting of motor vehicles which are designed and used
for the carrying of not more than ten passengers, a funeral hearse and floral cars, or combinations thereof,
with or without foot or equestrian units, proceeding to a funeral service or place of burial.
Hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle means any motor vehicle with a substantial number of
essential parts, as defined by Section 1-118 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, either damaged, removed, altered
or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power or, which
by its general state of deterioration, poses a threat to the public health, safety and welfare. "Hazardous
dilapidated motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repairs.
Highway means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way, under the jurisdiction
of the County, publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic.
Highway Department means the Cook County Highway Department.
Holidays when used in the traffic code or on official signs erected by authority of the traffic code,
the term "holidays" means New Year's Day (January Ist), Memorial Day (the last Monday in May),
Independence Day (July 4th) Labor Day (the first Monday in September), Thanksgiving Day (the fourth
Thursday in November) and Christmas Day (December 25th).
Intersection means the area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the property lines
of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not one such street crosses the other. Where a
highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, every crossing of each roadway of such divided
highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
Laned roadway means a roadway, under jurisdiction of the County, which is divided into two or
more marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
Mass transportation vehicle means a public passenger vehicle having seating capacity for 35 or
more passengers.
Merging traffic means a maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging roadways to
permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle
involved is required to adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any
other vehicle.

 page 18
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Motorcycle means every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground but excluding farm tractors.
Motor-driven scooter means any electric or gas wheeled scooter, cycle or other vehicle for which
the State of Illinois does not issue a title document, and does not issue license plates or registration
documents.
Motorizied wheelchairs means any motorized vehicle designed for and used by a person with
disabilities.
Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is propelled by a motor.
Motor vehicle of the first division means every motor vehicle designed and used for the carrying
of not more than ten persons.
Motor vehicle of the second division means every motor vehicle designed for the carrying of more
than ten persons, every motor vehicle designed or used for living quarters, every motor vehicle designed
for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and every motor vehicle of the first division remodeled for use
and used as a motor vehicle of the second division.
One-way street or alley means a public way upon the roadway of which traffic is permitted to
travel in one direction only.
Operator means every person who operates or is in actual physical control of any device or
vehicle whether motorized or propelled by human power.
Parking or to park means the standing of an unoccupied vehicle otherwise than temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or passengers.
Parking meter means a traffic control device which, upon being activated by deposit of currency
of the United States in the amount indicated thereon or otherwise, either: (1) displays a signal showing
that parking is allowed from the time of such activation until the expiration of the time fixed for parking
in the parking meter zone in which it is located, and upon expiration of such time indicates by sign or
signal that the lawful parking period has expired, or (2) issues a ticket or other token on which is printed
or otherwise indicated the lawful parking period in the parking meter zone in which the parking meter is
located, such ticket or other token to be displayed in a publicly visible location on the dashboard or inner
windshield of a vehicle parked in the parking meter zone. "Parking meter zone" means a certain
designated and marked-off section of the public way within the marked boundaries where a vehicle may
be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for such period of time as the parking meter attached
thereto, or the ticket or other token issued by the parking meter, may indicate.

 page 19
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Parking violation notice means a handwritten or computer generated notice either (a) placed on a
vehicle that is parked or standing in violation of the vehicle code, or (b) given to the driver of the vehicle,
both are returnable to the Circuit Court of Cook County.
Parking violation notice copy means any duplicate, photocopy or reproduction, including any
computer-stored or computer-generated representation of an original parking violation notice.
Second notice of parking or vehicle equipment violation means the notice, mailed to the address
supplied to the Secretary of State by the registered owner of a vehicle, sent after the registered owner has
failed to respond within the time allotted by ordinance to a parking or vehicle equipment violation notice
placed on or given to the driver of such vehicle.
Parkway means any portion of a street not considered as roadway, sidewalk, driveway or private
road.
Pedestrian means any person afoot.
Police officer means every sworn officer of the Sheriffs police department.
Property line means the line marking the boundary between any public way and the private
property abutting thereon.
Public building means a building used by any government agency.
Public passenger vehicle means a motor vehicle which is used for the transportation of
passengers for hire.
Public way means any sidewalk, roadway, street, alley, highway or other public thoroughfare
under jurisdiction of the County and open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
travel, excepting bridle paths.
Push cart means a conveyance designed to be propelled by a person afoot.
Railroad means a carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon stationary rails.
Railroad train means a steam engine, electric or other motor with or without cars coupled thereto,
operated upon rails.
Recreational vehicle means every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home, travel trailer,
truck or van camper used primarily for recreational purposes and not used commercially nor owned and
used by a commercial business.

 page 20
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Registered owner means the person in whose name the vehicle is registered with the Secretary of
State of Illinois or such other state's registry of motor vehicles.
Residential street means the length of any street between street intersections when 50 percent or
more of the occupied frontage of the street is in use for residence purposes.
Right-of-way means the right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such circumstances of direction, speed and
proximity as to give rise to danger or collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
Roadway means that portion of a public way, under jurisdiction of the County, between the
regularly established curb lines, or that part improved, and intended to be used for vehicular travel.
School bus means every motor vehicle of the second division operated by or for a public or
governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization solely for the transportation of pupils
in connection with any school activity.
Second notice of parking or vehicle equipment violation means the notice, mailed to the address
supplied to the Secretary of State by the registered owner of a vehicle, sent after the registered owner has
failed to respond within the time allotted by ordinance to a parking or compliance violation notice placed
on or given to the driver of such vehicle.
Semi-trailer means every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or property
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
Service drive means a narrow portion of a public way open to vehicular traffic for the purpose of
providing access to the front of abutting property between intersections and separated by physical means
from through traffic, if the latter exists, on the same public way.
Sheriff means the Sheriff Office of Cook County Illinois.
Sidewalk means that portion of a public way, under jurisdiction of the County, between the curb,
or the lateral lines of the roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Snowmobile means a self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or natural terrain
steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis, belts, or cleats.
Standing or to stand means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers;
provided, that, an operator is either in the vehicle or in the immediate vicinity, so as to be capable of
immediately moving the vehicle at the direction of a police officer or traffic control aide.

 page 21
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Stop means the complete cessation of movement.
Street means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained and
under the jurisdiction of the County when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
general traffic circulation.
Taxicab stand means a fixed area in the roadway alongside and parallel to the curb set aside for
taxicabs to stand or wait for passengers.
Through street means every public way or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is given
preferential right-of-way, and at the entrance to which vehicular traffic from intersecting public ways is
required by law to yield right-of-way to vehicles on such through street in obedience to a traffic signal,
stop sign or yield sign, when such traffic control devices are erected as provided in the traffic code.
Traffic means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, bicycles, vehicles, and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any public way for purposes of travel.
Traffic control aide means any person designated by the Chief of the Sheriff’s Police to exercise
the power of a police officer to direct or regulate traffic or to issue citations for violation of parking and
vehicular equipment violation ordinances.
Traffic control devices means all signs, signals, markings, and devices placed or erected under
authority of the city council for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
Traffic violation means a violation of the provisions of the Cook County Vehicle Code, other than
a standing or parking violation. A vehicular equipment violation observed on a vehicle operated on the
public way may be treated as a traffic violation, if the operator of the vehicle is also charged with a
criminal offense. The Chief of the Sheriff’s Police shall issue standards for the treatment of a vehicular
equipment violation as a traffic violation.
Trailer means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle constructed that no part of its weight
rests upon the towing vehicle.
Vehicle means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported
or drawn upon a street or highway, except motorized wheelchairs, devices moved solely by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles, as defined in the Snowmobile
Registration and Safety Act of Illinois.
Vehicular equipment violation notice means a handwritten or computer generated notice that is
either, (a) placed on a vehicle that exhibits a vehicular equipment violation, or (b) is given to the driver of
the vehicle, both are returnable to the Circuit Court of Cook County.

 page 22
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Vehicular equipment violation notice copy means any duplicate, photocopy or reproduction,
including any computer-stored or computer-generated representation of an original vehicular equipment
violation notice.
Yield right-of-way means the act of granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting
roadway to traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left.
DIVISION 2. TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNALS AND VEHICLE OPERATION
Sec. 82-10. Traffic control devices and signals.
(a) The Cook County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to approve the placement,
erection and maintenance of traffic control devices as provided in the traffic code, as required to make
effective the traffic ordinance of the County, and as necessary to guide and warn traffic. The Highway
Department is also authorized to place and maintain temporary traffic-control devices as needed in
connection with construction or special events or experimental devices for the purposes of an engineering
study; provided, however, such devices shall not be maintained for longer than 180 days without city
council approval. Upon authorization by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the actual erection,
placement and maintenance of any traffic-control device shall be performed by the Highway Department.
All traffic-control devices placed and maintained pursuant to the traffic code shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State of Illinois Department of Transportation and shall so far as
practicable be
uniform as to type and location throughout the County. All traffic-control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Ordinance shall be official traffic-control devices.
(b) The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any applicable traffic control device
placed in accordance with the provisions of the traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(c) No operator of a vehicle shall attempt to avoid obedience to any traffic-control device by
driving upon or through any private property, alley or traffic island.
(d) No provision of any traffic ordinance for which traffic-control devices are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation an official device is
not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinary observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that signs or other devices are required, such section shall be effective
even though no signs or other devices are erected or in place.
Any person violating subsections (b) or (c) of this section shall be fined no less than $90.00 and
no more than $300.00 and may be required to perform reasonable community service in a program under
the direction of the Sheriff.

 page 23
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-11. Traffic-control signal legend.
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control devices exhibiting steady colored lights,
successively one at a time, in combination or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and the
signals shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
(a) Green Indication:
(1) Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed straight through or turn right or
left except as such movement is modified by lane-control signs, turn prohibition signs, lane
markings, or roadway design. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or
an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal indication is exhibited.
(2) Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in combination with another
indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by
such arrow or such other movement as is permitted by other indications shown at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an
adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
(3) Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in Section 82-14,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a turn arrow may
proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
(b) Steady Yellow Indication:
(1) Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal is thereby warned that
the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication will be exhibited
immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the intersection.
(2) Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal, unless otherwise directed
by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in Section 82-14, are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian
shall then start to cross the roadway.
(c) Steady Red Indication.
(1) Except as provided in Section 82-12, vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the intersection and shall remain
standing until an indication to proceed is shown.

 page 24
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(2) Except as provided in Section 82-12, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall
not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering
the intersection to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until
an indication permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
Sec. 82-12. Flashing signals.
Whenever flashing red or yellow signal indications are in place, the signals shall indicate and
apply to drivers of vehicles as follows:
(a) Flashing Red Indication. When a red signal is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, the
operator of any vehicle shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a stop line
when marked, or, if none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
(b) Flashing Yellow Indication. When a yellow signal is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, the operator of any vehicle may proceed through the intersection or past such signal only with
caution.
Sec. 82-13. Lane control signals.
Whenever vehicular traffic is controlled and directed by overhead lane-control signals displaying
illuminated colored indications, one over each lane, the following indications only shall be used and the
illuminated colored lane-control signal indications shall apply to drivers of vehicles as follows:
(a) Downward-pointing Green Arrow. A driver facing this indication is permitted to drive in the
lane over which the arrow signal is located. Otherwise he shall obey all other traffic controls present and
follow normal safe driving practices.
(b) Red X Symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the lane over which the
symbol is located, and this indication shall modify accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls
present. Otherwise he shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving practices.
(c) Yellow X Symbol. A driver facing this indication should prepare to vacate the lane over which
the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
Sec. 82-14. Special pedestrian-control signals.
Whenever special pedestrian-control signals are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:

 page 25
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(a) Walk or Symbolic Walk Figure. Pedestrians facing such signal indication when illuminated
may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the indication and shall be given the right-of-way by
the operator of any vehicle. When such signal indication is extinguished, no pedestrian facing the signal
indication shall enter the roadway.
(b) Don't Walk or Symbolic Don't Walk Figure. No pedestrian facing such signal indication which
is illuminated or flashing shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of the indication; provided,
however, any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing on the "Walk" signal indication shall
proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while the "Don't Walk" signal indication is illuminated.
Sec. 82-15. Interference with traffic-control devices prohibited.
No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or
remove any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal. Every person convicted of a
violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00 for
each offense.
Sec. 82-16. Driving from or onto controlled-access highway.
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from the roadway of any controlled access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
Sec. 82-17. Speed limits.
All speed limits established by the County Board are hereby ratified and confirmed. All
ordinances amending or enacting speed limits are on file in the office of the County Clerk.
Sec. 82-18. Speed limits within construction or maintenance zones.
(a) Superintendent of Highways authorized to set. The Members of the Board of Commissioners
of hereby authorize the Superintendent of Highways to set and post reduced speed limits for construction
or maintenance zones; as defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.1.
(b) Signing. Such reduced speed limits shall be temporary and be in-effect and in full force from
the time appropriate signing giving notice of the reduced speed limits are erected until such time that said
signing is removed; and
(c) Speed limit signs. Construction or maintenance zone speed limit signs shall:
(1) Be of a design approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation;
(2) Give proper warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being approached;

 page 26
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(3) Indicate the maximum speed limit in effect; and
(4) State the amount of the minimum fine for a violation as established by 625 ILCS 5/11-605.1
(special limit while traveling through a highway construction or maintenance speed zone).
(d) Record of speed limit locations. A record be maintained by the Highway Department naming
each location, the reduced speed limit set and posted for the construction or maintenance zone and dates
during which the reduced speed limit was in effect.
(e) Notification of changes in speed limits. Affected jurisdictions shall be notified of the changes
in the posted speed limits so that they may be properly enforced.
Sec. 82-19. Minimum speed regulations.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and
reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle
or in compliance with law.
Sec. 82-20. Turning at intersections.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
(a) Right Turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(b) Left Turns on Two-way Roadways. At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in
both directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that
portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection or on that portion of the roadway that may be specifically
designated for such purpose by appropriate markings, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center
of the intersection.
(c) Left Turns on Other Than Two-way Roadways. At any intersection where traffic is restricted
to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle or on that portion of the roadway that may be specifically
designated for such purpose by appropriate markings, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.

 page 27
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d

(d) Right-of-way on Left Turn. The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded
and having given a signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle making the left turn.
Sec. 82-21. Turns on red signals.
(a) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the driver of a vehicle may turn right
when facing a steady red signal; provided, however, he may do so only from the lane closest to the righthand curb or edge of roadway, must come to a full stop and must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and
to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the driver of a vehicle on a one-way
roadway, facing a steady red signal, may turn left into an intersecting one-way roadway in which traffic
travels to the left; provided, however, he may do so only from the lane closest to the left-hand curb or
edge of roadway, must come to a full stop and must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
(c) Drivers may not turn left or right on a steady red signal when official traffic control devices
have been erected indicating that such turns are prohibited.
Sec. 82-22. Intersections--procedure after completed stop.
After the operator of a vehicle has stopped in obedience to a stop sign, at an intersection where a
stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto, such operator shall proceed cautiously yielding to
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but may then proceed, subject to the provisions of Section 82-27.
Sec. 82-23. Crosswalks-pedestrians to have right-of-way.
Where stop signs are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk at an intersection or between
intersections, pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the
right-of-way over vehicles stopped in obedience to such signs. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the
right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.

 page 28
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-24. Intersections--more than one vehicle.
(a) The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the right of way to a vehicle
which has entered the intersection from a different roadway.
(b) When two vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at approximately the same time,
the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
Sec. 82-25. Pedestrians in roadway to have right-of-way.
When the movement of traffic is not controlled by traffic-control devices, a police officer or
traffic control aide, the operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be so to yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so
closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
Sec. 82-26. Right-of-way at sidewalks.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto any sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across an alleyway, yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway,
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
Sec. 82-27. Yield right-of-way signs.
Where a yield right-of-way sign has been erected at an intersection, the driver of a vehicle facing
the sign shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions or shall stop if necessary and
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersecting roadway either from the
right or left or which are approaching so closely on the intersecting roadway as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but thereafter may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
Sec. 82-28. Authorized emergency vehicles.
(a) Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal by
sirens, exhaust whistle, or bell or displaying an oscillating, rotating, or flashing blue beam or displaying
an oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet (150 meters), the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge, except on oneway streets where drivers shall drive as close as possible to the nearest edge, of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer or fireman in the lawful exercise of his duties. Any person
who violates any provision of this subsection (a) shall be subject to a fine of $500.00 and may be
authorized to perform reasonable community service in a program under the direction of the Sheriff.

 page 29
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
Sec. 82-29. Equestrians to have right-of-way when.
The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a person riding a horse on a bridle path
where such bridle path crosses a driveway, when signaled to do so by the raising of the arm of the rider.
Nothing in this section shall relieve an equestrian from the duty of exercising due care and of obeying
official traffic control devices.
Sec. 82-30. Blind persons to have right-of-way when.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any blind person who is carrying in a
raised or extended position a cane which is white in color, or white tipped in red, or who is being guided
by a dog shall have the right-of-way in crossing any roadway.
(b) The driver of a vehicle approaching the place where a blind person carrying a cane as
described in subsection (a) or guided by a dog is crossing a roadway shall bring his vehicle to a full stop
and before proceeding shall take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who is neither carrying a cane
as described in subsection (a) nor guided by a dog, but the other provisions of this chapter relating to
pedestrians shall then be applicable to such person.
Sec. 82-31. Overtaking vehicle on the left.
(a) The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass
to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely
clear of the overtaken vehicle.
(b) Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the driver of an overtaken
vehicle shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
Sec. 82-32. Overtaking vehicle on the right.
(a) The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the
following conditions:
(1) When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn and there is sufficient safe
clearance distance between the turning vehicle and the right edge of the roadway;

 page 30
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(2) Upon any roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for two or more lanes of
moving vehicles in each direction; or
(3) Upon any roadway on which traffic is restricted to one direction of movement, where the
unobstructed pavement is of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
(b) The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the right only under
conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off
the pavement or main-traveled portion of the roadway.
Sec. 82-33. Limitation on overtaking on the left.
No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely
made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
of any vehicle overtaken. In every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
Sec. 82-34. Driving on right side of roadway.
(a) All vehicles shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway:
(1) When proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing; or
(2) When designed and used for transportation, pulling or hauling of freight, except when
overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left turn
at the intersection or into a private road or driveway.
(b) Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven in the right hand lane
available for traffic, except:
(1) When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under construction or repair;
(2) Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
or
(3) Upon a roadway designated by signs for one-way traffic.

 page 31
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-35. Overtaking school bus.
(a) The driver of a vehicle on a roadway, upon meeting or overtaking, from either direction, any
school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging any school children, shall stop
the vehicle before reaching the school bus where there is in operation on the school bus a visual signal as
specified in Section 12-805 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, and the driver shall not proceed until the school
bus resumes motion, or the school bus driver signals the driver to proceed, or the visual signals are no
longer actuated.
(b) Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear upon the front and rear
thereof plainly visible signs containing the words "school bus" in letters not less than eight inches in
height and in addition shall be equipped with visual signals, meeting the requirements of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, which shall be actuated by the school bus whenever the brakes are applied.
(c) The driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of which the roadways for traffic moving in
opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic
need not stop his vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway, and the
driver of a vehicle on a controlled access highway need not stop when a school bus is stopped in a loading
zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross such controlled access highway.
Sec. 82-36. Overtaking at crosswalks.
Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
the rear shall not overtake or pass such stopped vehicle.
Sec. 82-37. Obedience to police and fire department orders.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a police
officer, fire department official or other authorized officer.
Sec. 82-38. Following responding fire apparatus prohibited.
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into the block where the fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. Any person found in violation of this Section shall be fined no less
than $500.00 and may be required to perform reasonable community service in a program under direction
of the Sheriff.

 page 32
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-39. Driving over fire hose prohibited.
No person shall drive or move a vehicle over any unprotected hose of the fire department when
laid down on any street or private driveway unless he has obtained the consent of the fire department
official in command. Any person found in violation of this Section shall be fined no less than $25.00.
Sec. 82-40. Driving, standing or parking on bicycle paths or lanes prohibited.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive, unless entering or exiting a legal parking space, or stand,
or park the vehicle upon any on-street path or lane designated by official signs or markings for the use of
bicycles, or otherwise drive or place the vehicle in such a manner as to impede bicycle traffic on such
path or lane.Any person who violates this section shall be fined $100.00 for each offense. Any vehicle
parked in violation of this section shall be subject to an immediate tow under provisions provided for in
Section 58-164 of this Code.
Sec. 82-41. Driving on sidewalks or parkways prohibited.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive on any sidewalk or parkway except on a permanent or
temporary driveway. Any person found in violation of this Section shall be fined no less than $50.00.
Sec. 82-42. Dimming headlights required when.
On approaching another vehicle proceeding in an opposite direction and when within not less
than 350 feet of such vehicle, the operator of a motor vehicle equipped with electric headlight or
headlights shall dim such headlight or headlights.
Sec. 82-43. Prohibited driving to left of center of roadway.
(a) No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
(1) When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway where the driver's view
is obstructed within such distance as to create a hazard in the event another vehicle might
approach from the opposite direction;
(2) When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection or railroad grade crossing;
(3) When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct, tunnel or subway;
(4) When official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the right, or a continuous yellow
colored centerline is marked.

 page 33
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
Sec. 82-44. Operating vehicle in reverse.
The driver of a vehicle shall not operate vehicle in reverse unless such movement can be made
with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
Sec. 82-45. Obstruction of intersection or crosswalk prohibited.
Notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed, no operator of a vehicle shall
enter an intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space beyond such intersection or crosswalk,
in the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding, to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing the
passage of other vehicular traffic or pedestrians. Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a
fine of $200.00.
Sec. 82-46. Obstruction of traffic.
The operator of a vehicle shall not so operate the vehicle as to form an unreasonable obstruction
to traffic.
Sec. 82-47. Negligent driving.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon a public way negligently,
heedlessly and without due caution in a manner which endangers or is likely to endanger any person or
property or to swerve within, between or across lanes of traffic in such a manner. Any person who
violates this section shall be fined not less than $300.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense and
may be required to perform reasonable community service in a program under the direction of the Sheriff.
Sec. 82-48. Following too closely.
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and
prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicle and the traffic upon the condition of the
roadway.
Sec. 82-49. Drivers to exercise due care for pedestrians.
Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precautions
upon observing any child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.

 page 34
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-50. Driving or moving vehicle in unsafe condition.
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to
be driven or moved, on any roadway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe
condition as to endanger any person or property or which contains equipment prohibited by the vehicle
code or is not equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in the traffic code, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of this Code.
Sec. 82-51. Coasting downhill prohibited.
(a) The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall not coast with the
gears of such vehicle in neutral.
(b) The driver of a motor vehicle of the second division when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
Sec. 82-52. Pulling out from parked position.
No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked on any roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
Sec. 82-53. Operator's signals.
(a) No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after giving a clearly
audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian may be affected by such movement or after giving
an appropriate visual signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
(b) A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously during not less than the
last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
(c) A turn signal shall be given to indicate an intention to change lanes or start from a parallel
parked position.
Sec. 82-54. Operator's signals--stop or decrease in speed.
No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without first giving an
appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the
rear when there is opportunity to give such signal.

 page 35
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-55. Operator's signals--means.
Any stop or turn signal when required by the traffic code shall be given either by means of the
hand and arm or by mechanical device, all of which signals shall be plainly visible and understandable in
normal sunlight and at night from a distance of 100 feet to the front and rear, but shall not project a
glaring or dazzling light; except that a stop signal need be visible only from the rear. All mechanical
signal devices shall be self-illuminated at all times when in use. Any person found in violation of this
Section will be fined $25.00 dollars.
Sec. 82-56. Operator's signals--hand and arm--manner.
Hand and arm signals shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner:
(a) Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
(b) Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
(c) Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
Sec. 82-57. Use of horns and signals devices.
(a) The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to insure safe operation, give
audible warning with his horn but shall not otherwise use such horn at any time.
(b) The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other
vehicle while stationary, except as a danger signal when an approaching vehicle is apparently out of
control, or, if in motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of
the vehicle is intended, or the creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably loud or
harsh sound or the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time, is
hereby prohibited.
Sec. 82-58. Driving with view obstructed prohibited.
(a) No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any sign, poster, card, sticker or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield, or upon or protruding from any rear window, side window
or roof which materially obstructs, obscures or impairs the view from both within or without the vehicle.
(b) No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a roadway with any object so placed in or upon
the vehicle as to obstruct the driver's clear view through the windshield, except required or permitted
equipment of the vehicle.

 page 36
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) No person shall drive a vehicle when it is loaded or when there are in the front seat such
number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the
vehicles or as to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(d) No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a roadway with any human being placed upon
or protruding from the vehicle's roof, trunk, hood or any window; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply (i) if the motor vehicle is part of a parade, public assembly or athletic event and for which
a permit has been obtained; or (ii) if the motor vehicle is being used by an officer or employee of the
County in the performance of his or her official duties.
(e) Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than $300.00 nor more than
$1,000.00 for each offense and may be required to perform reasonable community service in a program
under the direction of the Sheriff.
Sec. 82-59. Towing or pushing regulations of disabled vehicles.
(a) When one vehicle is towing another, the vehicles shall be connected to a drawbar of sufficient
strength to pull all weight towed, and the drawbar shall not exceed eight feet in length. In addition to the
drawbar, the vehicles shall be connected by two chains or cables of sufficient strength to pull all weight
towed independently of the drawbar. Such chains or cables shall not exceed the length of the drawbar by
more than two feet when fastened to the towed vehicle.
(b) No person shall push a vehicle with another vehicle upon any public way for a distance
greater than 600 feet, or in a school zone while school children are present.
(c) Every disabled vehicle being pushed or towed on any public way shall have displayed on its
roof or cab a flashing amber light. Such light shall be visible for a distance of at least 500 feet from the
sides and rear if the vehicle is being towed or 500 feet to the front and sides if the vehicle is being pushed.
Such light shall be in addition to any other lights required by law or ordinance.
Sec. 82-60. Safe speed required.
No person shall drive any vehicle pushing or towing another vehicle a rate of speed greater than
is reasonable under the conditions so as not to endanger life or property.
Sec. 82-61. Towing of vehicle containing passenger prohibited.
No person shall operate a vehicle to tow another vehicle if the towed vehicle contains one or
more passengers.

 page 37
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-62. Authorized emergency vehicles.
(a) The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or
when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when responding to but not upon return
from any fire alarm, may:
(1) Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the vehicle code;
(2) Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be
necessary for safe operation;
(3) Exceed the speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or property;
(4) Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions.
(b) The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only:
(1) when the driver of the vehicle while in motion sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and the vehicle is displaying an oscillating,
rotating or flashing red beam visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet of the front of such vehicle; or
(2) when the authorized emergency vehicle is operated as a police vehicle and such vehicle is
displaying an oscillating, rotating or flashing blue beam.
(c) The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver
from the consequences of reckless disregard of others.
Sec. 82-63. Buses-stopping, standing and parking.
(a) The driver of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at any place for the purpose of
loading or unloading passengers other than at a designated bus stop, bus stand, passenger loading zone, or
bus terminal except in case of an emergency or as permitted in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) The driver of a bus shall enter a bus stop or passenger loading zone on a public way only in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such bus not further than 18 inches from the curb, or 30 inches from the curb if the bus is
lift equipped, and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of
other vehicular traffic.

 page 38
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) When bus lanes are designated and appropriately indicated by signs and markings, it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any bus to operate the vehicle on any other portion of the roadway for travel in
the direction allowed in the designated lane.
(d) The driver of a bus may stop such vehicle at any intersection of any street on which it has
authority to operate between the hours of Midnight and 5:00 a.m. for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers.
Sec. 82-64. Taxicabs--stopping, standing and parking.
(a) The driver of any taxicab shall not stop such vehicle upon any business street at any place
other than a taxicab stand, except for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer,
traffic control aide or traffic sign or signal; provided, however, that this section shall not apply when the
taxicab is unoccupied, not for hire and otherwise lawfully parked.
(b) No driver, involved in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers shall be charged
with a violation of any parking ordinance contained in this code, unless such driver fails to move his
vehicle after having been directed by a police officer or traffic control aide to do so.
Sec. 82-65. Cruising of public passenger vehicles prohibited.
No operator of a public passenger vehicle shall solicit business in such manner as to interfere with
the lawful movement of traffic.
Sec. 82-66. Operation of motorcycles.
A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached
thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person unless the cycle is designed to carry more than
one person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two
persons or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the cycle.
Sec. 82-67.

Operation of motor driven scooters restricted.

(a) No person shall operate a motor driven scooter upon any public street, sidewalk, parking lot,
bike path, park or on any other public property.
(b) The following shall be exempt from the prohibitions contained in this section:
(1) Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, municipal vehicle, special district vehicle, County vehicle or
Forest Preserve District vehicle operated by an employee in the course of his or her duties.

 page 39
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(2) Motorized wheelchairs. For purposes of this section, a motorized wheelchair means any
motorized vehicle designed for and used by a person with disabilities.
(3) Electric personal assistance mobility devices
(d) Applicability of section. Without limitation, this section applies to areas of unincorporated
Cook County, to areas owned or operated by Special Districts within unincorporated Cook County, and to
areas within municipalities within the County which have not adopted ordinances governing the operation
of motorized scooters within the said municipalities. To the extent a municipality has adopted an
ordinance addressing the operation of motorized scooters, or to the extent a municipality adopts an
ordinance electing not to be bound by this section, the ordinance of the municipality shall apply, and this
section shall not apply, to any areas within the jurisdiction of the municipality.
(e) Violations. Any person 18 years of age or older who violates any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense. An
offense committed by a minor under the direct control or with the consent of a parent or guardian may
subject the parent or guardian to the penalties provided in this section.
Sec. 82-68. Snowmobile operation.
It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a snowmobile in any unincorporated area of the
County except in those areas of the Forest Preserve where snowmobile operation is specifically
allowed. Any person found in violation of this Section shall be subject to a fine of $50.00.
Sec. 82-69. Duty upon striking unattended vehicle.
The operator of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall
immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of
his name, address and telephone number and of the state registration number of the vehicle striking the
unattended vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place on the vehicle struck a written notice giving his
name, address and telephone number and the state registration number of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
Sec. 82-70. Duty upon striking fixtures or other property.
The operator of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other
property legally upon or adjacent to public way shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner
or persons in charge of such property of such fact and of his name, address and telephone number and of
thestate registration number of the vehicle he is driving and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit
his operator's or chauffeur's license.

 page 40
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-71. Special weight and load permits
(a) The County Board hereby declares it necessary to impose upon certain highways, under the
jurisdiction of the County, weight and load restrictions, in accordance with the Illinois Motor Vehicle
Law. The highways to be so designated shall be based upon the recommendations of the County
Superintendent of Highways.
(b) In the event it is necessary for a vehicle to use a highway, upon which load restriction limits
have been placed and, where load limit restrictions will be exceeded, the County Superintendent of
Highways, in such cases, is hereby authorized to issue a temporary permit for such highway use. The
County Superintendent of Highways be and is hereby directed to submit recommendations to the County
Board concerning load limit restrictions and the highways upon which said load limit restrictions shall be
imposed.
Sec. 82-72. Picking up riders-prohibited.
No person operating a private vehicle shall pick up any person standing in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride. Any person who is found in violation of this Section will be fined $100.00.
Sec. 82-73. Unlawful riding.
(a) No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
(b) No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for the
use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a
duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(c) No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere with the driver's view
ahead or to the sides or with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(d) Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $100.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-74. False, stolen or altered temporary registration permits.
No person shall operate or park on the public way, under the jurisdiction of the County, any
vehicle bearing a false, stolen or altered state temporary registration permit. A vehicle operated or parked
in violation of this section is subject to immediate impoundment. The owner of record of such vehicle
shall be liable to the county for an administrative penalty of $500.00 in addition to fees for towing and
storage of the vehicle. Whenever a Sheriffs police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this subsection, the police officer shall provide for the
towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the County or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the
police officer shall notify the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request a
preliminary hearing to be conducted under Section 58-164 of this Code. If the vehicle is unattended,
notice shall be sent to the last registered owner of the vehicle, at the address indicated in the last valid
registration of the vehicle.

 page 41
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-75. Television receivers.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle when the vehicle is equipped with television broadcast
receiver equipment so located that the viewer or screen is visible from the driver's seat. Any person who
violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense and shall be required to perform reasonable community service in a program under the direction
of the Sheriff.
Sec. 82-76. Unauthorized signs declared a nuisance--exceptions.
(a) No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any public way any
unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an
official traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device
or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain upon any public way any traffic sign
or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
(b) Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor
more than $500.00 for each offense. Every sign, signal, or marking prohibited under this section is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the commissioner of transportation is empowered to and shall
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(c) This section shall not apply to crossing guards displaying portable stop signs to permit the
street crossing of children or to "Neighborhood Watch" signs installed and maintained by local residents
or organizations; provided, however, that "Neighborhood Watch" signs shall be uniform in size, color and
design as approved by the Sheriff’s Police Department and shall be installed only on residential streets, at
least eight feet above curb grade, not less than 150 feet from any intersection and in such a manner as not
to obstruct any traffic or other regulatory sign or signal. This section also shall not be deemed to prohibit
the erection, upon private property adjacent to public ways, of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official traffic signs.
Sec. 82-77. Obstruction of or interference with traffic.
Any person who shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay or who shall willfully
and unnecessarily attempt to hinder, obstruct or delay any other person in lawfully driving or traveling
along or upon any street or who shall offer to barter or sell any merchandise or service on the street so as
to interfere with the effective movement of traffic or who shall repeatedly cause motor vehicles traveling
on public thoroughfares to stop or impede the flow of traffic shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $200.00 or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both,
for the first offense, fined not more than $500.00 or imprisoned for not more than 20 days, or both, for the
second offense, and fined not more than 30 days, or both, for each such subsequent offense.

 page 42
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-78. Mobile food dispensers.
No person shall conduct the business of a mobile food dispenser or peddler as defined in this
Code, on any portion of the public way in such a way as to obstruct the flow of traffic. Any person who
violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense.
DIVISION 3. VEHICLE PARKING
Sec. 82-86. Stopping. Standing and Parking, prohibited in various locations.
Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the law or the
directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device, no person shall:
(1) Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
a. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a street;
b. On a sidewalk;
c. Within an intersection;
d. On a crosswalk;
e. Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of points on the curb
immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a different length is indicated by
signs or markings;
f. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing or
parking would obstruct traffic;
g. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a highway
tunnel;
h. On any railroad tracks or within a distance of ten feet from the outer rails thereof;
i. At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
j. On a controlled-access highway;
k. In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including crossovers.

 page 43
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(2) Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to pick up or discharge
passengers:
a. In front of a public or private driveway;
b. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
c. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
d. Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, yield sign, or traffic control
signal located at the side of a roadway;
e. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the side of a street
opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of such entrance (when properly
sign-posted);
f. At any place where official signs prohibit standing;
g. In a fire lane or within eight feet of the entrance to a fire lane.
(3) Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading property or passengers:
a. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
b. At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(4) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of the above Section with
the exception of subsections 1(h), 2(e) and 3(a), shall be fined $50.00 for each offense.
(5) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of subsection 2(e) and 3(a)
shall be fined $75.00 for each offense.
(6) Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of subsection 1(h) shall be
fined $100.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-87. Distance from the curb.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way
roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.

 page 44
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under such person's control into any prohibited
area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(c) Except when otherwise provided by local ordinance, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a
one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the
direction of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels
within 12 inches of the left-hand curb or as close as practicable to the left side of the left-hand shoulder.
Any person found in violation of any provision this Section will be fined $50.00.
Sec. 82-88. Violation of posted signs; penalty.
(a) No person shall stop, park or leave standing at any time any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, within the right-of-way of any roadway under the jurisdiction of the County where necessary
signs are posted prohibiting parking, which such signs shall be posted at the discretion of the Cook
County Superintendent of Highways.
(b) Every person found guilty of violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be
punished by a fine of not less than $5.00 and not more than $100.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-89. Stopping, standing or parking outside of business or residential district.
(a) Unobstructed width opposite a standing vehicle. Outside a business or residential district, no
person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practical to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway, but in every event an
unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
(b) Posting signs. The Cook County Department of Highways with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction or for the maintenance of which it is responsible may place signs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where in its opinion such stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any such regulations adopted by the
Department regarding the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets or
highways become effective at the time of the erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations.
Any such signs may be erected by the Department or by a local authority with the approval of the State
Department of Transportation.
(c) Exception. This section and Sections 82-93 and 82-94 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the vehicle in such position.

 page 45
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-90. Parking on county property.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any property owned by the County and used for the
transaction of public business where such parking is prohibited by order of the custodian of the property;
provided, this section shall not apply to County-owned vehicles or to other vehicles whose operation is
useful or essential to the proper functioning of the department, board or commission occupying the
property. The custodian of the property shall post "No Parking" signs indicating the foregoing prohibition.
Any person found in violation of any provision of this Section will be fined $50.00.
Sec. 82-91. Parking in alleys.
(a) It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any alley for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the expeditious loading, unloading, pick-up or delivery of materials from such vehicle.
(b) It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as
to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic
or to block the entrance to any abutting property. Any person found in violation of any provision of this
Section will be fined $50.00.
Sec. 82-92. Parking of trucks restricted.
(a) No person shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semi-trailer, recreational vehicle more than 22
feet in length, self-contained motor home, or bus on any residential street for a longer period than is
necessary for the reasonably or expeditious loading or unloading of such vehicle.
(b) No person shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semitrailer, trailer or self-contained motor
home, or bus on any business street for a longer period than is necessitated for the reasonably expeditious
loading or unloading of such vehicle. Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $50.00.

 page 46
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-93. Parking privileges for persons with disabilities.
(a) A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a person with disabilities, as defined by.
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1 (person with disabilities defined), pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with
disabilities license plates), or to a disabled veteran pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609 (disabled veterans'
plates), or a special decal or device issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with disabilities license
plates) or pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with disabilities parking) or a
motor vehicle registered in another jurisdiction, State territory or foreign country upon which is displayed
a registration plate, special decal or device issued by the other jurisdiction designating the vehicle is
operated by or for a handicapped person shall be exempt from the payment of parking meter fees and
exempt from ordinances imposing time limitations on parking, except limitations of one-half hour or less,
on any street or highway zone, or any parking lot or parking place which are owned, leased or owned and
leased by a municipality or a municipal parking utility; but, such vehicle shall be subject to the laws
which prohibit parking in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front of or near fire hydrants,
driveways, public building entrances and exits, crosswalks, bus stops and loading areas, and is prohibited
from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic hazard, whereby such motor vehicle shall be
moved at the instruction and request of a law enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer.
Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates or a special decal or device specified in this section or in
625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with disabilities license plates) or such as specifically authorized in 625 ILCS
5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with disabilities parking) as evidence that the vehicle is operated
by or for a person with disabilities or disabled veteran may park, in addition to any other lawful place, in
any parking place specifically reserved for such vehicles by the posting of an official sign.
(b) Parking privileges granted by this section are strictly limited to the person to whom the special
registration plates, special decal or device were issued and to qualified operators acting under his express
direction while the person with disabilities is present.
(c) Such parking privileges granted by this section are also extended to motor vehicles of not-forprofit organizations used for the transportation of persons with disabilities when such motor vehicles
display the decal or device issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with
disabilities parking).
Sec. 82-94. Unauthorized use of parking places reserved for persons with disabilities.
(a) Registration plates or decals. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-159.1
(person with disabilities defined) pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 (person with disabilities license plates) or
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 (special decals for a person with disabilities parking), or to a disabled veteran
pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609 (disabled veterans' plates), as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for
a person with disabilities or disabled veteran, in any parking place, including any private or public offstreet facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign.

 page 47
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) Removal of authorized vehicles. Any person or local authority owning or operating any public
or private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Sheriff's Police Department, remove or cause
to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space
reserved for use by the handicapped which does not display handicapped registration plates or a special
decal or device as required under this section.
(c) Fine. Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
$250.00, in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any motor vehicle
authorized under this section.
Sec. 82-95. Parking meters.
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a designated parking meter zone or space without
depositing a United States coin of the denomination indicated on the meter and putting the meter in
operation or to park any vehicle in such zone or space for a period longer than is designated on the meter
for the value of the coin or coins deposited in the meter; provided, however, these provisions shall not
apply during such hours of the day as designated from time to time by order of the County Board. Any
person found in violation of this Section will be fined $50.00.
Sec. 82-96. Repairs to vehicles on Public Way.
No person shall change any parts, repair, wash, grease, wax, polish or clean a vehicle on any
public way, under jurisdiction of the County, except such repairing, cleaning or polishing as is necessary
to insure good vision, or such emergency repairs as are necessary to remove such vehicle from the public
way. Such emergency repairs shall be made only as close as possible to the right-hand edge of the
roadway, with the vehicle facing in the direction of the traffic flow.
Sec. 82-97. Parking for certain purposes prohibited.
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway, under jurisdiction of the County or in any
public off-street parking facility for any of the following purposes:
(a) To display such vehicle for sale;
(b) To perform maintenance or repair such vehicle, except for repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
(c) To sell merchandise from such vehicle.
(d) Any person who violates subsection (a) shall be fined $50.00 for each offense. Any person
who violates subsections (b) or (c) above shall be fined $25.00 for each offense.

 page 48
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-98. Unattended motor vehicles.
(a) No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without
first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the
brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side
of the highway.
(b) Nothing in this section prohibits the use of a remote ignition start device which is capable of
starting a vehicle's ignition without the vehicle's ignition key, if (a) the vehicle is equipped with an antitheft feature which prevents the vehicle from being driven without the ignition key being properly
inserted; and (b) the owner of the vehicle displays on the vehicle a decal or sticker indicating the presence
of such a remote ignition start device.
Sec. 82-99. Parking in parking lots.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person not so entitled to park a vehicle in a public parking lot.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person not so entitled to park a vehicle in a private parking lot
established voluntarily or pursuant to the County Zoning Ordinance to provide off-street parking facilities
for tenants or employees of the owner.
(c) Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of this section, any police officer or other person
authorized to issue parking violation notices. Upon a written complaint signed by the owner of the
parking lot or by his authorized agent that the vehicle is not entitled to the privileges of the parking lot,
may attach a parking violation notice to the vehicle.
(d) Any person who violates subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall be fined $50.00 for each
offense.
Sec. 82-100. Removal of parking permit or notice of violation.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the vehicle, to remove from a
vehicle a notice of violation affixed pursuant to the traffic code.
(b) Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $100.00.

 page 49
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
DIVISION 4. VEHICLE EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS
Sec. 82-110. Brakes--required.
(a) Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated on any roadway under the
County’s jurisdiction shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold such vehicle. The brake system shall include two separate means of applying the brake, each of
which means shall operate to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If the two separate means of
applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one part of
the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
(b) Every motorcycle and motor-driven cycle when operated on any roadway under the County’s
jurisdiction shall be equipped with at least one brake, which may be operated by hand or foot.
(c) Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or more when operated on any
roadway under the County’s jurisdiction shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement
of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab. Such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an accidental
breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes are automatically applied. Any person found in violation of
any provision of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-111. Brakes--stopping capability--maintenance.
(a) The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles operating on a level
surface shall be adequate to stop such vehicle or vehicles within a distance of 30 feet when traveling 20
miles per hour upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose material.
(b) Under the above conditions the hand brake shall be adequate to stop such vehicle or vehicles
within a distance of 55 feet and the hand brake shall be adequate to hold such vehicle or vehicles
stationary on any grade upon which operated.
(c) Under the above conditions the service brakes upon an antique vehicle, as defined in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 40 feet and the hand brake
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet.
(d) All braking distances specified in this section shall apply to all vehicles mentioned, whether
such vehicles are not loaded or are loaded to the maximum capacity permitted by law.
(e) All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be so adjusted as to operate
evenly with respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle. Any person found in violation of any
provision of this Section will be fined $25.00

 page 50
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-112. Windshield wipers.
Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles and motor-driven cycles, operating or parked on any
roadway under the County’s jurisdiction and equipped with a windshield shall also be equipped with a
self-operating windshield wiper which shall be maintained in good operating condition. The windshield
wiper shall provide clear vision through the windshield for the driver and shall be operated under
conditions of fog, snow or rain. This section shall not apply to snow removal equipment equipped with
adequate manually operated windshield wipers. Any person found in violation of this Section will be
fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-113. Horns and warning devices.
(a) Every motor vehicle when operated upon any roadway shall be equipped with a horn in good
working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance not less
than 200 feet, but no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a
whistle.
(b) No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a vehicle any siren, whistle
or bell, except that this shall not apply to an authorized emergency vehicle as otherwise permitted in the
traffic code. Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-114. Required lighting.
When upon any roadway, subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles:
(a) Every motorcycle shall exhibit at all times at least one lighted lamp showing a white light
visible at a distance of 500 feet in the direction of travel;
(b) All motor vehicles other than motorcycles shall exhibit at least two lighted head lamps
showing white lights or lights with a yellow or amber tint, during the period of sunset to sunrise, and at
any other times when due to insufficient natural light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions (fog, snow or
rain), person and vehicles are not clearly discernible for a distance of 1,000 feet in the direction of travel;
(c) Each motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least one lighted lamp which
shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse direction;
(d) The registration plate at the back of every motorcycle and every motor vehicle shall be so
lighted that the numbers on said plate shall be plainly legible and intelligible at a distance of 50 feet; and

 page 51
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(e) Every trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less including the weight of the trailer
and maximum load shall be equipped with two lighted lamps, one on each side of the rear of such trailer
which shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse direction. Any
person found in violation of any provision of this Section shall be fined $25.00 dollars.
Sec. 82-115. Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps.
(a) Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp, except authorized
emergency vehicles, and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation
of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
(b) Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three auxiliary driving lamps mounted
on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon
which the vehicle stands. Any person found in violation of this Section shall be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-116. Side cowl, fender, running board courtesy and back-up lamps.
(a) Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or fender lamps which
shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
(b) Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running board courtesy lamp on
each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
(c) Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a back-up lamp either separately or in combination
with another lamp; except that no such back-up lamp shall be continuously lighted when the motor
vehicle is in forward motion.
(d) Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required is also equipped with
any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of an intensity
greater than 300 candle-power, not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle
shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway. Any person found in violation of any provision of
this Section hall be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-117. Non-motor-driven vehicles--lighting requirements.
All non-motor-driven vehicles including animal-drawn vehicles while being operated or parked
on any roadway under the jurisdiction of the County between the period of sunset to sunrise shall at all
times be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear. Any person found in violation of this Section shall be fined $25.00.

 page 52
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-118. Parked vehicles--lighting regulations.
(a) Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any lighted street within a business
or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
(b) Whenever a vehicle is parked upon an unlighted street or highway during the hours between
one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with one or
more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the vehicle and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(c) Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed. Any person
found in violation of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-119. Suspension system.
(a) It shall be unlawful to operate or park a motor vehicle on any roadway, that is under
jurisdiction of the County, when the suspension system has been modified from the original manufactured
design by lifting the body from the chassis in excess of three inches or to cause the horizontal line from
the front to the rear bumper to vary over the three inches in height when measured from a level surface of
the highway to the lower edge of the bumper.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prevent the installation of manufactured heavy duty equipment to
include shock absorbers and overload springs, nor shall anything contained in this section prevent a
person to operate a motor vehicle with normal wear of the suspension system if such condition does not
affect the control or safe operation of the vehicle. This section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed
or modified primarily for off-highway racing purposes while such vehicles are in tow or to motorcycles or
motor-driven cycles. Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-120. Bumpers.
(a) Every motor vehicle of the first division and recreational vehicles must be equipped with both
front and rear bumpers while being operated or parked on any roadway within the County’s jurisdiction.
The bumper height shall not be modified to vary more than three inches from the original manufactured
bumper height for that vehicle when measured from a level surface of the highway to the lower edge of
the bumper. Nothing in this section shall prevent the installation of manufactured bumper guards.
(b) This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle designed or modified primarily for offhighway racing purposes while such vehicle is in tow or to motorcycles or motor-driven cycles or to an
antique vehicle when registered as such and where the original design did not include bumpers. Any
person found in violation of subsection (a) of this Section will be fined $25.00.

 page 53
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-121. Rear view mirrors.
Every motor vehicle, whether parked, operated singly or when towing another vehicle shall be
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the roadway for a distance of at least
200 feet to the rear of such vehicle. Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-122. Rear reflectors on trailers.
Every trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less including the weight of the trailer and
maximum load, towed either by a motor vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the second
division shall be equipped with two red reflectors, which will be visible when hit by headlight beams 300
feet away at night, located on the rear of the body of such trailer, not more than 12 inches from the lower
left hand and right hand corners. Any person in violation of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-123. Exhaust system.
(a) (1) Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke
(2) No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a public way.
For purposes of this subsection (a), the term "straight pipe" shall mean a muffler without baffles
or any other noise inhibiting device.
(b) The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as
to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke. Any person in violation of any provision of this
Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-124. Burglar alarms.
(a) In any vehicle equipped with a continuous or intermittent audible signal device which acts as a
burglar alarm, such device shall be limited in operation to four minutes after activation and shall be
incapable of further operation until reset to become active again.
(b) No person shall install or maintain in any vehicle registered in the County any continuous or
intermittent audible signal device for use as a burglar alarm unless the device is equipped with an
automatic shut-off mechanism to terminate the alarm sound after four minutes and an automatic reset
mechanism to reengage the alarm for further operation. No person shall operate or park on any roadway
any vehicle equipped with any continuous or intermittent audible signal device for use as a burglar alarm
unless the device is equipped with an automatic shut-off mechanism to terminate the alarm sound after
four minutes and an automatic reset mechanism to reengage the alarm for further operation.

 page 54
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 for each offense. Any
person who violates this section a second time shall be subject to a fine of $75.00, any person who
violates this section a third or subsequent time shall be subject to a fine of $100.00. Each installation and
each use of an alarm in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and distinct offense; provided,
however, it shall not be a violation of this section to operate a device for a period of time in excess of four
minutes if the device is designed to be triggered by the unauthorized opening of the hood, trunk or door of
the vehicle, or by the breaking of a window, and the operation of the device in excess of four minutes was
so caused.
Sec. 82-125. Registration plates.
(a) Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, trailer, semi-trailer or
truck-tractor shall be attached to the front and rear of the vehicle.
(b) The registration plate issued for a motorcycle, trailer or semi-trailer shall be attached to the
rear thereof.
(c) The registration plate issued for a truck-tractor shall be attached to the front thereof.
(d) Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a horizontal position to the
vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12
inches from the ground, measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition to be clearly legible. No
registration plate shall be covered by any tinted or colored screen.
(e) It is illegal to park a vehicle on any roadway under the County’s jurisdiction if the registration
plate or other registration material fails to comply with subsections (a) through (d) or subsection (f) of this
section.
(f) Every registration plate, temporary permit or evidence of temporary registration must bear
evidence of proper registration for the current period and be displayed in the manner required by the
secretary of state. Any person in violation of any provision of this Section will be fined $50.00.
Sec. 82-126. County wheel tax sticker.
The County wheel tax sticker shall be purchased and displayed in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter 74, Article XIV of the County Code. Any person who violates this section shall be fined
pursuant to Chapter 74, Article XIV of the County Code.

 page 55
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-127. Safety belts.
(a) Each driver and front seat passenger of a passenger motor vehicle shall wear properly adjusted
and fastened seat safety belts, except that a child less than six years of age shall be protected as required
by the Child Passenger Protection Act of the State of Illinois. Each driver of a passenger motor vehicle
transporting a child six years of age or more, but less than 16 years of age, in the front seat of a passenger
motor vehicle shall be responsible for securing such child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety
belt. For the purposes of this section, use of seat safety belts shall include the use of shoulder harnesses
where such harness is a standard part of the equipment of the passenger motor vehicle.
(b) All school buses, as defined in Section 1-182 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, codified as 625
ILCS 511-182, as amended, that meet the minimum Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards 222 for the
purposes of transporting children 18 and under shall be equipped with an individual set of seat safety belts
meeting Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards 208 and 209 as they apply to a multi-passenger vehicle
with a gross weight at or under 10,000 pounds, in good operating condition for each passenger. No school
bus shall be operated unless all passengers' safety belts are fastened.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
(1) A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or delivering property from
the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops does not exceed 15 miles per hour;
(2) A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a physician that he or she is unable
for medical or physical reasons to wear a seat safety belt;
(3) A driver or passenger possessing a certificate or license endorsement issued by the Motor
Vehicle Division of the state or a similar agency in another state or county indicating that the
driver or passenger is unable for medical, physical or other valid reasons to wear a seat safety
belt;
(4) A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse;
(5) A passenger motor vehicle manufactured before January 1, 1965;
(6) A motorcycle, motortricycle or moped;
(7) Any passenger motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat safety belts under
state or federal law, except school buses;
(8) A passenger motor vehicle operated by a postal carrier of the United States Postal Service
while such carrier is performing his or her duties as a postal carrier; or

 page 56
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(9) A school bus transporting students who reside and attend schools situated outside of the city.
(d) Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-128. Broken or inoperable lamps; broken or cracked glass.
(a) No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any roadway under the County’s jurisdiction if
any lamp or light required for the vehicle by this Code is broken or inoperable.
(b) No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any roadway under the County’s jurisdiction,
if any window of the vehicle is missing, broken, or cracked and the crack exceeds six inches in length.
Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-129. Obstruction of driver's vision; tinted and non-reflective windows.
(a) No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle on any roadway under the County’s
jurisdiction, with any sign, poster, window application, reflective material, non-reflective material or
tinted film on the front windshield, side-wings or side windows immediately adjacent to either side of the
operator. A non-reflective tint screen may be used along the uppermost portion of the front windshield if
the material does not extend more than six inches down from the top of the windshield.
(b) It is unlawful to park or stand a vehicle on any portion of the public way under the County’s
jurisdiction if the vehicle is equipped with non-reflective, smoked or tinted glass or no-reflective film on
the front windshield, side-wings or side windows immediately adjacent to either side of the driver's seat.
(c) It is a defense to a charged violation of subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this section that the
motor vehicle complies with the use, medical prescription and documentation provisions of Paragraph (g)
of Section 12-503 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended. Any person found in violation of subsection
(a) and (b) of this section will be fined $25.00.
Sec. 82-130. Blue lights and flashing, rotating or oscillating blue beams.
No person shall drive, move, or park any vehicle or equipment upon any roadway under the
County’s jurisdiction with any device thereon displaying a blue thereof, except a vehicle owned and
operated by a police department, law enforcement agency or an emergency vehicle, or place, maintain, or
display upon or in view of any public or oscillating blue beam. Any person found in violation of this
Section will be fined $100.00.

 page 57
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-131. Red lights and flashing lights.
(a) No person shall drive, move or park any vehicle or equipment upon any roadway, under the
County’s jurisdiction, with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from directly in front
thereof.
(b) Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a means for indicating a right or
left turn or an emergency stop.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. Any person
found in violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section will be fined $100.00.
Sec. 82-132. Destructive substances on public way.
(a) No person shall throw or deposit upon any public way any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks,
wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such public way.
(b) Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any public way any
destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
(c) Any person removing wrecked or damaged vehicle from a public way shall remove any glass
or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(d) No person shall cast, throw or deposit any litter, upon any public way.
(e) Any police officer or law enforcement officer observing a violation of this section may issue a
notice of violation or other appropriate citation to any person violating any of the provisions of this
section. Any person found violating any provision of this section will be fined $100.00.
Sec. 82-133. Metal-tired vehicles or equipment.
No person shall drive, move, or park on any public way, under the County’s jurisdiction any
metal-tired vehicle or equipment having on the periphery of any wheel a block stud, flange, cleat, or spike
or any other protuberance of any metal other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire; provided, however, it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions
upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, mud or other conditions tending to cause
a vehicle to skid.

 page 58
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
DIVISION 5. PEDESTRIANS
Sec. 82-140. Jaywalking
No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk on any through street. Any person
who shall violate this provision will be fined $10.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-141. Limited access streets and highways--public pedestrian tunnels and bridges.
(a) No pedestrian shall cross the roadway of a limited-access street or highway other than by
means of those facilities which have been constructed as pedestrian crossings or at those points where
marked crosswalks have been
provided.
(b) No pedestrian shall cross a roadway where a public pedestrian tunnel or bridge has been
provided other than by way of the tunnel or bridge within a section to be determined by the Highway
Department and to be so designated by the erection of appropriate signs or fencing.
(c) Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $10.00.
Sec. 82-142. Pedestrian to yield right-of-way when.
(a) Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked crosswalk shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(b) The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the conditions stated in Section
82-84 when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated places.
(c) Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $10.00.
Sec. 82-143. Pedestrian crossing.
(a) No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at right angles to the
curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except in a marked crosswalk.
(b) No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the
path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
(c) Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $10.00.

 page 59
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-144. Use of crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall move whenever practicable upon the right side of crosswalks. Any person found
in violation of this Section will be fined $10.00.
Sec. 82-145. Walking along roadways.
(a) Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to walk along and upon an
adjacent roadway.
(b) Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon a roadway shall
when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic that may approach
from the opposite direction.
(c) Any person in violation of this Section will be fined $20.00.
Sec. 82-146. Soliciting rides prohibited.
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any
private vehicle. Any person found in violation of this Section will be fined $100.00 for each offense.
Sec. 82-147. Traffic-control signals.
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as provided in Sections 82-11 and 82-14, but
at all other places shall be granted those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this Article.
Sec. 82-148. Imitation of blind persons prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except persons wholly or partially blind, to carry or use on the
public streets of Cook County any cane or walking stick which is white in color, or white with a red end
on the bottom.
Sec. 82-149. Pedestrians to exercise due care.
Nothing in this Article shall relieve a pedestrian from the duty of exercising due care.
DIVISION 6. BICYCLES
Sec. 82-155. Rights and duties of bicycle riders.
(a) Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of
the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances of this city applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.

 page 60
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) The regulations in the traffic code applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any roadway or public sidewalk or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(c) Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left turn or turn in the
opposite direction is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign
unless he dismounts from the bicycle to make the turn, in which event he shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(d) Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of Section 82-155 through 82-166
regulating bicycles shall be fined a minimum of $25.00.
Sec. 82-156. Riding bicycles on sidewalks and certain roadways.
(a) No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district.
(b) No person 12 or more years of age shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk in any area , unless
such sidewalk has been officially designated and marked as a bicycle route.
(c) Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders
shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
Sec. 82-157. Riding bicycles on sidewalks--penalty.
(a) The penalty for any person age 18 and older who rides a bicycle on the sidewalk shall be
$25.00.
(b) Following passage and approval, this section shall be in force and effect upon posting of
signage notifying bicyclists of the penalty for violation of this section.
Sec. 82-158. Speed of bicycles.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
Sec. 82-159. Yielding right-of-way.
(a) The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon
approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.

 page 61
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(b) Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-ofway to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(c) Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near as practicable to the righthand side of the roadway, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction and at all times giving the right-of-way to other moving vehicles.
Sec. 82-160. Riding in single file required--exceptions.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride other than single file except on paths or
parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
Sec. 82-161. Carrying articles on bicycles.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which prevents the rider
from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
Sec. 82-162. Parking.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway against the curb or upon
the sidewalk against a rack, parking meter or sign pole to support the bicycle or against a building or at
the curb in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
Sec. 82-163. Abandoned bicycles.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any bicycle on any public way within the Cook
County. A bicycle shall be deemed abandoned if it: (1) is in such a state of disrepair as to be incapable of
being operated in its present condition, or (2) has not been moved or used in more than seven days and
bears physical indicia of having been deserted.
(b) Any bicycle deemed abandoned pursuant to subsection (a) of this section may have a notice
affixed to it which informs the bicycle's owner that the bicycle appears to be abandoned. The Sheriffs
Department is authorized to affix such notices upon bicycles. This notice shall indicate:
(1) a telephone number for the owner to call to inform the Sheriff’s Department that the bicycle is
not abandoned; and
(2) the date after which the bicycle may be removed if it is not claimed by its owner. A bicycle
shall not be deemed to be abandoned if the owner of the bicycle, within seven days of the
affixing of a notice of abandonment, notifies the Sheriff’s Department that the bicycle is not
abandoned.

 page 62
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) If a bicycle is not relocated or claimed by its owner within seven days of the affixing of a
notice of abandonment, that bicycle may be removed and disposed of by the Sheriff’s Department.
Sec. 82-164. Headlamps, reflectors and brakes.
(a) Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a head lamp which shall emit a
white light visible from a minimum distance of 500 feet from the front and with a rear red reflector
capable of reflecting the head lamp beams of an approaching motor vehicle back to the operator of such
vehicle at distances up to 200 feet or a rear lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of at least 200
feet from the rear.
(b) Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will enable the operator to make the braked
wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
Sec. 82-165. Riding regulations.
(a) A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and regular seat
attached thereto.
(b) No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for which it is
designed and equipped.
Sec. 82-166. Parents or legal guardians responsibility.
No parent or legal guardian of any child shall authorize or knowingly permit the child to violate
any of the provisions of this Article applicable to bicycles.
DIVISION 7. ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 82-170. Violation-Penalty.
(a) Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this Article for which no penalty is
specifically provided shall be punished by a fine of not less than $75.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense. Also any person found in violation of any provision of this Article for which a term of
community service is not provided for, may be required to perform reasonable community service in a
program under the direction of the Sheriff.
(b) Payment and adjudication of all violations in this Article shall be carried out pursuant to
Section 82-180.

 page 63
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-171. Vehicle impoundment.
Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, who violates any offenses listed in Section
58-165 shall be subject to vehicle seizure & impoundment as specified under Sections 58-164 and 58-165
of this Code.
Sec. 82-172. Vehicle code compliance--required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to perform any act required, in
the Vehicle Code.
Sec. 82-173. Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this Article shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state, or any political subdivision thereof, and it shall be
unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the provisions of the traffic code, except as otherwise
permitted in this Ordinance or by state statute.
(b) Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person
driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the provisions of the traffic code applicable to the
driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of this Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Sec. 82-174. Parking and vehicle equipment violations--enforcement--prima facie responsibility
designated.
(a) Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the traffic code prohibiting or
restricting vehicular stopping, standing, parking or vehicle equipment violations, the person in whose
name the vehicle is registered with the Secretary of State of Illinois shall be prima facie responsible for
the violation and subject to the penalty therefore.
(b) Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the vehicle code prohibiting
or restricting vehicular stopping, standing, parking, or vehicle equipment violation, any police officer,
traffic control aide, other designated members of the County's Sheriff Police Department, parking
enforcement aide or other person designated by the County's Sheriff Police Department observing such
violation may issue a parking or vehicle equipment violation notice and serve the notice on the owner of
the vehicle by handing it to the operator of the vehicle, if he is present, or by affixing it to the vehicle in a
conspicuous place. The issuer of the notice shall specify on the notice his identification number, the
particular parking or vehicle equipment regulation allegedly violated, the make and state registration
number of the cited vehicle, and the place, date, time and nature of the alleged violation and shall certify
the correctness of the specified information by signing his name.

 page 64
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) Notice admissible in administrative or legal proceedings. A parking or equipment violation
notice issued, signed and served in accordance with this section, or a copy of such notice, shall be prima
facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the fact shown therein. The notice or
copy thereof shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceedings.
Sec. 82-175. Standing or parking violations punishable by fine.
The violation of any provision of the vehicle code prohibiting or restricting vehicular standing or
parking shall be a civil offense punishable by fine, and no criminal penalty, or civil sanction other than
that prescribed in this Code, shall be imposed.
Sec. 82-176.

Officers authorized to remove vehicles.

(a) Whenever any law enforcement officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of
Sections 82 -89, 82-93 or 82-94, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same to a position off the roadway.
(b) Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a place
of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any street, highway, bridge, causeway, or in a
tunnel, in such a position or under such circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
When the County Department of Highways finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle standing upon the
paved or main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or may be expected to interrupt the free flow
of traffic on the highway or interfere with the maintenance of the highway, the County Department of
Highways is authorized to move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part
of the highway.
(c) Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed to the
nearest authorized tow vendor or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway when:
(1) A report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken without the consent of its
owner;
(2) The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to provide for its custody or
removal; or
(3) When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested for an alleged offense for
which the officer is required by law to take the person arrested before a proper magistrate
without unnecessary delay.

 page 65
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-177. Traffic regulations and vehicle laws-enforcement.
(a) It shall be the duty of the Sheriffs Police to enforce the traffic regulations of this county and
all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this county, to make arrests for traffic violations,
to investigate accidents and to cooperate with the Highway Department and other officers of the county in
the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and
to carry out those duties imposed by the vehicle code or other ordinances of this county.
(b) Officers of the Sheriffs police department and or otherwise authorized Sheriff’s personnel are
authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws or ordinances. In
the event of fire or other emergency or in
order to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department, sworn members of the
fire department and traffic control aides may direct traffic contrary to traffic control devices as conditions
may require.
(c) Any person who is found guilty of circumventing, ignoring or disobeying any direction or
order authorized by subsection (b) of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100.00 and
not more than $300.00 for the first offense and not less than $300.00 and not more than $500.00 for each
subsequent offense occurring within 12 consecutive months.
Sec. 82-178. Traffic violation notices.
(a) Traffic violation notice forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to charges of
violating traffic laws and ordinances in the Circuit Court of Cook County and the corresponding
complaint forms therefore, in serially numbered sets consisting of three copies of the notices and one
copy of the corresponding complaint shall be provided in books and in the form prescribed and approved
jointly by the State's Attorney and the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books, shall maintain a record of every such book and each set of notices and complaint therein issued to
the individual members of the police department, shall require and retain a receipt for every book so
issued, and shall require the return to him of a copy of every traffic violation notice issued by a member
of the police department and all copies of every traffic violation notice and the corresponding complaint
which have been spoiled or upon which any entry has been made and not issued to an alleged violator.
(b) Every police officer or otherwise authorized sheriff’s personnel, upon issuing a traffic
violation notice to an alleged violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of the state or of any
traffic ordinance of this county shall deposit the corresponding traffic violation complaint of the notice
with his immediate superior officer who shall cause the complaint to be filed in the Circuit Court of Cook
County.

 page 66
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
Sec. 82-179. Vehicular equipment violation notices.
(a) Vehicular Equipment violation notice forms, for notifying violators either to pay the fine by
mail or request a hearing in person to answer to charges of violating any of the aforementioned
ordinances in the Circuit Court of Cook County, and the corresponding complaint forms therefore, in
serially numbered sets consisting of three copies of the notices and one copy of the corresponding
complaint shall be provided in books and in a form prescribed the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall be responsible
for the issuance of such books, shall maintain a record of every such book and each set of notices and
complaint therein issued to the individual members of the police department and other authorized sheriff’s
personnel , shall require and retain a receipt for every book so issued, and shall require the return to him a
copy of every vehicular equipment violation notice issued by a member of the police department and/or
other authorized sheriff’s personnel and all copies of every vehicular equipment violation notice and the
corresponding complaint which have been spoiled or upon which any entry has been made and not issued
to an alleged violator.
(b) Every police officer or otherwise authorized sheriff’s personnel, upon issuing a vehicular
equipment violation notice to an alleged violator or placing said notice on the vehicle exhibiting the
equipment violation shall deposit the corresponding vehicular violation complaint with his immediate
superior officer who shall cause the complaint to be filed with the Circuit Court of Cook County.
Sec. 82-180. Prepayment citation system.
(a) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for a prepayment system for violation of
ordinances regulating vehicular stopping, standing, parking and vehicular equipment violations within the
boundaries of the County and thereby establish a fair and efficient system for the enforcement of such
regulations. The system shall be operated under the supervision of the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
(b) Notice of violation. Any person on whom a parking violation notice has been served shall
within 14 days from the date of the notice either pay the indicated fine or, in the manner indicated on the
notice, request a court hearing to contest the charge, violation or violations.
(c) Second notice of response. If no response is made in accordance with Subsection (b) of this
section, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall serve a second notice of violation, by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the address of the registered owner of the cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State
of Illinois. The notice shall specify the date of a violation, and make and State registration of the cited
vehicle, the code provision violated, the applicable find and penalty in an amount equal to the relevant
fine to be paid by the final notice date or request for hearing. The final notice date for payment shall be 21
days from the initial due date.
(d) Required for court hearing. If the respondent requests a court hearing in person to contest the
cited violation or violations, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall notify the respondent in writing of the
time and place of the hearing.

 page 67
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(e) Failure to pay or request hearing. A notice sent pursuant to Subsections (b), (c) and/or (d) of
this section shall State that failure to pay the indicated fine or failure to request a court hearing will
constitute a debt due and owing the County, and as such may be collected in accordance with applicable
law. Payment in full of any fine and/or penalty resulting from a stopping, standing or parking violation
shall constitute a final disposition of that violation.
(f) Notification of State Attorney; penalty. The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall notify the County
State's Attorney of each respondent who fails to make payment or who fails to request a court hearing
pursuant to Sections (b), (c), (d) and/or (e) of this section. Upon being notified by the Clerk of the Circuit
Court, the County State's Attorney shall institute a civil action against the respondent in an amount of the
fine plus a penalty double the relevant fine and costs. Any action instituted and proceeding therein shall
be conducted in accordance with the Rules of the Circuit Court of Cook County, the Code of Civil
Procedure (735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.) and the rules and laws of the State of Illinois.
Sec. 82-181. Right to Inspect
(a) The Cook County Sheriff’s Police are hereby authorized to issue citations to any vehicle in
Cook County that is in violation of any of the above stated Sections in this Article. Furthermore, officers
of the Cook County Sheriff’s Police shall have the authority to enter the following places for the purposes
of ascertaining whether vehicles parked therein are in compliance with this Article and issue citations
accordingly:
(1) Any parking lot that is open to pedestrian traffic.
(b) Nothing in this Article authorizes any officer to force, break, or remove any lock or door in
order to gain entry to any of the aforementioned places.
Sec. 82-182. Notice to the Secretary of State
(a) Whenever any person fails to pay any traffic fine, penalty, or cost imposed for a violation of
this Code, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall cause a notice of non-payment to be sent to such person at
the person's last known address as shown on the court's records. The notice shall state that failure to pay
the full amount owing within 45 days of the date of the notice will result in the Clerk notifying the
Secretary of State that the person is eligible for prohibition of license renewal, reissue or reinstatement
pursuant to Section 6-306.6 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(b) If a person sent a notice pursuant to subsection (a) fails to pay the amount owing within the
time stated on the notice, the Clerk of the Circuit Court may notify the Secretary of State on a report
prescribed for that purpose by the Secretary, and the Secretary shall prohibit the renewal, reissue or
reinstatement of such resident's driving privileges until such fine, penalty, or cost has been paid in full in
accordance with Section 6-306.6 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.

 page 68
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(c) Upon payment in full of a traffic fine, penalty, or court cost which has previously been
reported under this Section as unpaid, the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall forward forthwith directly to the
Secretary of State a notice, on a form prescribed by the Secretary, stating that the fine, penalty, or cost has
been paid in full and shall provide the person with a signed receipt containing the seal of the court,
indicating that the fine, penalty, and cost have been paid in full. The receipt may not be used by the driver
to clear the driver's record.
(d) The provisions of this Section shall be limited to a single action per violation and as a post
conviction measure only. Fines, penalty, or costs to be collected subsequent to orders of court
supervision, or other available court diversions are not applicable to this Section.
DIVISION 8. AUTOMATED RED LIGHT TRAFFIC SAFETY SYSTEM
Sec. 82-190. Purpose; establishment of automated red light traffic safety system.
(a) The purpose of this article is to establish an automated red light violation traffic safety system
as provided in Section 11-208.6 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-208.6, which shall be administered
by the Cook County Highway Department, in consultation with the Sheriff of Cook County.
(b) The system shall utilize a traffic control signal monitoring device which records, through
photographic means, the vehicle and the vehicle registration plate of a vehicle operated in violation of
Sections 11-305 and 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 11-306. The photographic
record shall also display the time, date and location of the violation.
(c) A program shall be established which utilizes an automated red light safety system at various
vehicle traffic intersections identified by the Highway Department, with the advice of the Sheriff. The
intersections chosen for the program shall be located throughout the County, upon highways in the
County's maintenance jurisdiction. Signs shall be posted at all intersections equipped with traffic control
signal monitoring devices indicating that the intersection is being monitored by an automated red light
traffic safety system. Upon application by a local municipality, the County may permit, through
intergovernmental agreement, the local municipality to install and maintain such a system and issue
citations, with all cost paid by and all fines paid to the local municipality, at intersections which are under
maintenance and operation jurisdiction of the County, but within the police jurisdiction of such
municipality.
(d) Recorded images made by an automated red light traffic safety system are confidential and
shall be made available only to the alleged violator and governmental and law enforcement agencies for
the purpose of adjudicating a violation of Section 11-208.6 of the Vehicle Code, for statistical purposes,
or for other governmental purposes, but shall be admissible in any court proceeding concerning the
violation.

 page 69
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(e) The Highway Department and the Sheriff shall adopt rules and regulations as may be
necessary for the proper enforcement and administration of this article.
Sec. 82-191. Automated red light violation.
(a) The registered owner of record of a vehicle is liable for a violation of Section 11-208.6 of the
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-208.6, and a fine of $100.00 when the vehicle is used in violation of
Section 11-305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 306, and that violation is
recorded by a traffic control signal monitoring device. If the registered owner fails to pay the fine in a
timely manner, the registered owner shall be subject to an additional penalty of $100.00.
(b) A photographic recording of a violation obtained by a traffic control signal monitoring device
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation.
(c) It shall be a defense to a violation of Section 11-208.6 of the Vehicle Code that:
(1) The operator of the vehicle was issued a uniform traffic citation for a violation of Section 11305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 306, or similar local
ordinance provision; or
(2) The violation occurred at any time during which the vehicle or its state registration plates
were reported to a law enforcement agency as having been stolen and the vehicle or its plates
had not been recovered by the owner at the time of the alleged violation; or
(3) The vehicle was leased to another, and, within 60 days after the citation was mailed to the
owner, the owner submitted to the Sheriff the correct name and address of the lessee of the
vehicle identified in the citation at the time of the violation, together with a copy of the lease
agreement and any additional information as may be required by the Sheriff. Where the lessor
complies with the provisions of this section, the lessee of the vehicle at the time of the
violation shall be deemed to be the owner of the vehicle for purposes of this chapter. The
Sheriff, within 30 days of being notified by the lessor of the name and address of the lessee,
shall mail the lessee a citation which contains the information required under Section 11208.6(d) of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-208.6. For the purposes of this article, the term
"leased vehicle" shall be defined as a vehicle in which a motor vehicle dealership or
manufacturer has, pursuant to a written document, vested exclusive possession, use, control
and responsibility of the vehicle to the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee.
(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to any authorized emergency vehicle or any
vehicle lawfully participating in a funeral procession.

 page 70
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #1 cont’d
(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability of an operator of a vehicle for
any violation of Section 11-305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305 and 306, or
similar local ordinance provision.
Sec. 82-192. Citation notice.
For each violation of Section 11-305 or Section 11-306 of the Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-305
and 306, recorded by a traffic control signal monitoring device, the Sheriff shall mail a citation, within 30
days after receiving information about the registered owner of the vehicle from the Secretary of State, to
the registered owner of record of the vehicle used in the commission of the violation. The citation shall
include the name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle; the vehicle make, if available and
readily discernable, and registration number; the offense charged; the time, date and location of the
alleged violation; a copy of the recorded images; a warning that failure to pay the penalty or to contest
liability in a timely manner is an admission of liability and may result in a suspension of the driving
privileges of the registered owner; the applicable fine and where and in what manner payment of the fine
may be made to the Clerk of the Circuit Court prior to the court date; the time and place of the court
hearing at which the registered owner may contest the citation; and that the basis of the citation is a
photographic record obtained by a traffic control signal monitoring device, which has been inspected by a
technician who has determined the vehicle was being operated in violation of Section 11-208.6 of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
Sec. 82-193. Supplementary enforcement.
The program authorized by Section 82-161 shall supplement enforcement of traffic regulations
provided by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code and shall not replace or substitute for enforcement of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code or any other law or ordinance.
Effective date: This ordinance amendment shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEM #2
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-108(gg) Consent Calendar, the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners hereby transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions
shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk
of the Board.
There are 4 Consent Calendar items for the February 9, 2010 Board Meeting.

 page 71
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
CC ITEM #1
DEFERRED TO THE MARCH 2, 2010 BOARD MEETING.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Co-Sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS,
JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE
and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Honorable Carl R. Hansen, who served as Cook County Commissioner for District 15,
representing the Northwest suburbs for more than 32 years on the County Board, passed away on
Tuesday, February 2, 2010, at the age of 83; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen, the son of Danish immigrants, grew up in Chicago’s Humboldt Park
neighborhood during the Great Depression; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen graduated from Lane Tech High School and enlisted in the U.S.
Army in 1944, where he rose to the rank of 2nd lieutenant and was an officer of the United States High
Commission for Germany under then-General Dwight D. Eisenhower; and
WHEREAS, while overseas in the post-war period, Commissioner Hansen met his wife Christl in
Germany and was for the first and only time in his life rendered speechless for an entire hour, as he was
immediately smitten with her beauty, intelligence and grace; they married in Chicago in 1952; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen attended the University of Chicago’s graduate school where he
earned an MBA in 1954; he had a successful career in market research and started his own marketing,
management, and real estate consulting services firm in 1967; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen’s long career on the Cook County Board began in 1970 when, at the
age of 43, he was appointed to fill a ten-month vacancy created when a suburban representative died; he
subsequently ran and won election to the seat in 1974, and remained in office until 2006; and

 page 72
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
CC ITEM #1 cont’d
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen’s appointment and subsequent election to the Cook County Board
was not his first venture into politics, as he served as Elk Grove Township Republican Committeeman
from 1962 to 2002, and was the campaign manager for the primary gubernatorial bid of Charles H. Percy
in 1962; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen’s sense of duty and responsibility to the taxpayers of Cook County
was widely known, and while he was a strong and vociferous advocate for the Northwest suburban area,
all of Cook County benefitted from his diligence and relentless commitment to and knowledge of many
issues, including those relating to pollution, water supply, flooding, waste disposal, public health, and
preservation of green space; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen did not shrink from debate even if he was the sole voice in
opposition; he had the ability to persuade one to his side of a debate with his thunderous ferocity or
conversely, through mellifluous, impassioned speeches on the floor; and
WHEREAS, one such issue in which Commissioner Hansen’s tenacity and determination greatly
impacted the residents of Cook County was in the blocking of the creation of a landfill at the Poplar
Creek Forest Preserves, which would have ruined six hundred acres of Forest Preserve land; this two-year
battle proved to be one of his proudest victories; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Hansen’s extensive knowledge of history was evident, and he was a great
conversationalist on topics involving different ethnicities and cultures; his knowledge of and involvement
in his own Scandinavian community was not his only ethnic and cultural interest, rather, he enjoyed a
wide variety of multi-cultural relationships and attended events celebrating ethnic diversity, and was the
proud sponsor of the relationship formed in 2005 between the County of Cook and the Province of
Palermo in Sicily, Italy; and
WHEREAS, upon Commissioner Hansen’s retirement, many were amazed to find that he had kept every
County Board and Committee meeting document going back to 1970 in perfect order, complete with his
notes and backup material; this archive was donated, along with his other papers and correspondence
files, so that others could educate themselves and understand the intricacies of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, although Cook County was an important part of his life, there was nothing comparable in
importance to Commissioner Hansen than love and devotion to his family, which included his beloved
wife, Christl, who passed in 2007, son Lothar Ulrich and daughter-in-law Gudrun, cherished
granddaughter Christina, sisters Rita Scoon (deceased) and Marilyn Jackson, and sisters-in-law Iris
Draper and Uschi Choate; his commitment to family was unwavering, and his tenderness towards his wife
was palpable and inspirational to all those who have loved.

 page 73
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
CC ITEM #1 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, do hereby honor the
memory of Commissioner Carl R. Hansen, celebrate his extraordinary life, and hereby express the
gratitude of the residents of Cook County for his many years of distinguished service; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be presented to the family of
Commissioner Carl R. Hansen, as a token of our great esteem and acknowledgement of his rich legacy of
service and commitment to Cook County.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #2
APPROVED
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
HONORING REVEREND DR. LUCIUS HALL
WHEREAS, Reverend Dr. Lucius Hall has distinguished himself greatly as a man of God; his spiritual
dispensations have helped countless many on their personal faith journeys; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Hall pursued his undergraduate training at the University of Illinois at Chicago;
he trained extensively under the late Rev. Clarence H. Cobbs in Bible Study, Development and “On the
Job” training; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Hall was licensed to preach in 1979; he organized First Church of Love and Faith
in April 1980 and in less than a month he was ordinated a minister of the gospel; and
WHEREAS, as Pastor and founder of the First Church of Love and Faith located at 2140 West 79th
Street, Reverend Hall has been an inspirational leader, a prudent steward and a tower of strength for his
congregants; and
WHEREAS, in June 1980 Reverend Hall started two nationwide broadcast ministries that now include
two television programs each week; and

 page 74
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
CC ITEM #2 cont’d
WHEREAS, Reverend Hall’s ministry has inspired many in all walks of life by precept and example he
has proved and still is proving that “NO MATTER WHAT MAY BE THE TEST, GOD WILL TAKE
CARE OF YOU”; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Hall created a weekly television program “Broadcast Minister’s Alliance
Presents”; he serves as host for the popular TV program; in addition he produced and hosted the original
“Rock of Ages Gospel Hour” on Channel 26 in the 1960’s; Reverend Hall was appointed to the Advisory
Board of the Chicago Area Gospel Announcers Guild Affiliate of the Gospel Music Workshop of
America and, during the Gospel Festival in 2001, he was honored and saluted; and
WHEREAS, Reverend Hall serves as Vice President of the Broadcast Alliance of Chicago, the Executive
Director of the First Church of Love and Faith Head Start Program and an Executive Board Member of
the Chicago Festival Committee; in addition he is also the coordinator for the Broadcast Ministers
Alliance’s television ministry on Channel 25 (Cable); and
WHEREAS, Reverend Hall is to be highly commended and lauded for the breadth of his religious
leadership.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the
Board does hereby congratulate Reverend Dr. Lucius Hall for his important work on behalf of our
County, and may a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered herewith.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #3
APPROVED
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners

 page 75
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
CC ITEM #3 cont’d
RESOLUTION
COMMENDING AND CONGRATULATING MICHAEL J. MCCOTTER
ON HIS DISTINGUISHED CAREER AND RETIREMENT FROM THE
CHICAGO POLICE DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, Michael J. McCotter retired from the Chicago Police Department on January 15, 2010, after
a distinguished 38 year career; and
WHEREAS, Michael J. McCotter joined the Chicago Police Department on October 23rd, 1972, was
promoted to Detective in April 1981 and to Sergeant in June 1982; and
WHEREAS, Michael J. McCotter served as the Commanding Officer, Youth Division, Special
Investigations Unit; and
WHEREAS, Michael J. McCotter was promoted to Lieutenant in March 1988, serving as a Field
Lieutenant, Tactical Lieutenant, Administrative Lieutenant to the Chief of Detectives and Commanding
Officer of Area 2 Violent Crimes; and
WHEREAS, Michael J. McCotter was promoted to District Commander of the 25th District on the
northwest side of Chicago in May 2001; named Commander of Special Events in October 2003; was
promoted to Deputy Chief of Patrol in November 2005, named Deputy Chief of Detectives in March
2008, and promoted to Chief of Patrol in December 2008; and
WHEREAS, Michael J. McCotter much deserves his future years of spending more quality and leisure
time with his wife Valerie, son Michael, daughter-in-law Heidi, grandson Jack, and daughter Kristi; and
WHEREAS, the career of Michael J. McCotter is replete with devotion to his profession, his colleagues,
and his pledge to serve and protect the citizens of Chicago.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County do hereby express our gratitude to Michael J. McCotter for his 38 years of service to the people of
Chicago and Cook County, commend him for his distinguished career with the Chicago Police
Department, and extend our best wishes for a healthy and happy retirement.
* * * * *

 page 76
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #2 cont’d
CC ITEM #4
APPROVED
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOSEPH MARIO MORENO,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, EDWIN REYES,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN,
County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
HONORING LUCILLE DOOLEY’S 90TH BIRTHDAY
WHEREAS, Lucille Dooley celebrated her 90th birthday on February 5, 2010; and
WHEREAS, Lucille is a resident of the Village of Schaumburg, who is dedicated to volunteering her
time to working with young children; and
WHEREAS, two days a week for the past twelve years Lucille volunteers at Laurel Hill Elementary
School in Hanover Park, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, Lucille spends her time at the school volunteering in a second grade class, helping students,
grading papers and passing out papers; and
WHEREAS, students look forward to the days that Lucille is at their school, the students refer to Lucille
as Grandma Lu.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, that the
Board does hereby congratulate Lucille Dooley on the occasion of her 90th birthday and wishes her many
more years of health and happiness, and hereby commend her commitment to volunteering her time with
school children; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to Lucille Dooley in
recognition of her 90th birthday and that this Resolution shall also be spread upon the official proceeding
of this Honorable Body.

 page 77
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

COMMISSIONERS continued
COMMITTEE REPORTS
ITEM #3
DETAILED INFORMATION REGARDING COMMITTEE REPORTS IS AVAILABLE FROM
THE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Legislation, Intergovernmental & Veterans Relations ..................................Meeting of February 9, 2010
APPROVED
Finance........................................................................................................... Meeting of February 9, 2010
APPROVED
Zoning & Building......................................................................................... Meeting of February 9, 2010
APPROVED
Roads & Bridges ............................................................................................ Meeting of February 9, 2010
APPROVED

COMMISSIONERS
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CONTRACT
ITEM #4
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 18, 2010 from
MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with AWL Reporting Services,
Chicago, Illinois, to provide transcribing services for the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
Reason:

The previous service of AWL Reporting Services principals--combined with the institutional
knowledge, expertise and turnaround time--gives AWL Reporting Services a specific
understanding of the requirements and responsibilities regarding the transcription of verbatim
court reporting for the meetings of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. AWL
Reporting Services is uniquely qualified to perform these duties.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $67,695.00. Contract period: December 1, 2009 through November 30, 2010.
(018-268 Account). Requisition No. 00180001.

 page 78
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #5
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #305005
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 20, 2010 from
JACK WEINRAUCH, Director of Administrative Hearings
respectfully request approval of the following proposed Ordinance Amendment.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 66 Roads and Bridges,
Article IV, Section 66-127 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE IV. PROCEDURES AND FEES FOR HIGHWAY HAUL PERMITS REQUIRED BY
OVERWEIGHT AND OVERSIZED VEHICLES USING COUNTY HIGHWAYS
Sec. 66-127. Violation and enforcement.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person issued a permit under this section chapter, or any
employee or agent of such person, to violate any of the terms or conditions of the permit. Each and every
single trip per vehicle in violation of the terms or conditions of the permit shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. “Single trip” shall mean a one-way journey made by a vehicle from the starting point to
the destination point as designated in the application. It does not include a return trip from the destination
point to the starting point or a return trip from the destination point to any other point distinct from the
destination point. The owner and the operator of the vehicle may be held jointly and severally liable for
any fines or other penalties imposed under this section.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle not in conformity with the wheel and
axle load and gross weight provisions of Section 15-111 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/15-111,
on any County highway without a permit issued for that vehicle by the Superintendent.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle not in conformity with the dimension
requirements for width of vehicles in Section 15-102, height of vehicles in Section 15-103, and length of
vehicles in Section 15-107 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/15-102, 103, and 107, on any County
highway without a permit issued for that vehicle by the Superintendent.
Each and every single trip per vehicle made in violation of this article shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.

 page 79
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
(b) Except as specifically allowed by statute or other ordinance, no person shall operate on any
public way within the County any vehicle whose gross weight exceeds the limits described in Section 15111 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code. The weight limitations and formulae contained in Section 15-111
of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, as amended, are hereby incorporated by reference for purposes of
calculating permissible weights under this section. Any vehicle which exceeds the weight or size
limitations set out in this section is declared to be a public nuisance.

Any person who refuses or fails to stop and submit his or her vehicle and load after being directed
to do so by the Sheriff or who removes or causes the removal of any portion of the load prior to weighing,
shall be fined not less than $500.00 and not more than $2,000.00.
Any person who violates the weight limitations imposed by subsection (b)(1) of this section shall
be subject to a fine equal to the amount set out in Section 15-113(a) of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, as
amended. All fines shall be payable to the Cook County Department of Revenue. Section 15-113(a) of
the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, as amended, is hereby incorporated by reference for purposes of
calculating the permissible fines payable to the Cook County Department of Revenue. Each and every
single trip per vehicle made in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(c) Any person operating a vehicle in violation of this article may be prosecuted and fined in the
manner provided by Chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/15-112, 15-113, and 15-301(j).
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle not in conformity with the limitations
for width of vehicles in Section 15-102, the limitations for height of vehicles in Section 15-103, and the
limitations for length of vehicles in Section 15-107 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended, on any
County highway without a permit issued for that vehicle by the Superintendent. Each and every single
trip per vehicle made in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Any person operating a vehicle in violation of subsection (c)(1) of this section shall be prosecuted
and fined, for the first or second conviction in any one year period, in an amount equal to not less than
$50.00 and not more than $500.00. The fine for a third and subsequent conviction by the same person,
within a one year period, shall be in an amount equal to not less than $500.00 and not more than
$1,000.00.
(d) In addition to any fine imposed, any person who violates this article shall pay all costs
incurred by the Department to restore to a condition satisfactory to the Superintendent, any pavement,
bridge, culvert, tunnel, sewer, pipe conduit or other facility or appurtenance located within County
Highway right-of-way that is damaged by reason of the transportation of such vehicle.
(e) If any person violates this article in any manner, three times in one 12-month period of time,
the Superintendent may refuse to issue a permit to that person for one year following the date of the third
article violation.

 page 80
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
(f) In addition to payment of fines imposed under this section, a violator may be required to
perform a minimum of 100 hours of community service in a program under the direction of the Sheriff.
(g) A person issued a notice or citation for a violation of any weight limitation, size limitation, or
other limitation imposed by this chapter, or any term or condition of a permit issued under Section 66126, shall, upon issuance of the notice or citation, deposit with the Sheriff a bond in an amount equal to
the minimum fine established for such violation. The bond shall be in the form of a financial instrument
approved by the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee. The financial instrument shall be made payable to the
Cook County Department of Revenue. In lieu of posting the entire amount or a portion of the amount of
the bond, the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee may, in his or her own discretion, accept an individual
recognizance bond when, from the totality of the circumstances, it is the opinion of the Sheriff or the
Sheriff’s designee that the person issued the notice or citation will appear for a hearing. Any individual
recognizance bond shall include, as a condition of the bond, the provisions of subsection (c) of this
section.

(h) As a condition of any bond permitted under Section 66-127(g), the owner and/or operator of
the vehicle shall agree to indemnify and hold the County harmless from all suits, claims, damages, or
proceedings of any kind for injury to persons or damage to public or private property caused, in whole or
in part, by the operation of the vehicle in violation of any weight limitation, size limitation, or other
limitation imposed by this chapter, or any term or condition of a permit issued under Section 66-126.
(i) Any notice or citation for a violation of any weight limitation, size limitation, or other
limitation imposed by this chapter, or any term or condition of a permit issued under Section 66-126,
shall specify the date, time and location of a hearing before the department of administrative hearings
pursuant to Chapter 2, Article IX of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.
(j) If at the hearing, the administrative law officer determines that the owner or operator violated
any weight limitation, size limitation, or other limitation imposed by this chapter, or any term or condition
of a permit issued under Section 66-126, the administrative law officer shall enter an order finding the
owner and/or operator liable to Cook County for the amount of the administrative penalty prescribed for
such violation. The proceeds of any deposit or bond posted pursuant to Section 66-127(g) shall first be
used to satisfy in full or in part said penalty.
(k) If at the hearing, the administrative law officer determines that the owner or operator did not
violate any weight limitation, size limitation, or other limitation imposed by this chapter, or any term or
condition of a permit issued under Section 66-126, the administrative law officer shall enter an order
finding the owner and/or operator not liable to Cook County and order a return of the proceeds of the
deposit or bond posted pursuant to Section 66-127(g).

 page 81
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS continued
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #5 cont’d
(l) If the owner or operator fails to appear at the hearing, the administrative law officer may enter
a default order against the respondent, and may further order forfeiture of the deposit or bond posted
pursuant to Section 66-127(g) to Cook County. If an individual recognizance bond was granted, the
administrative law officer may enter an order of default in an amount equal to the administrative fines
prescribed for such violation. For good cause, the administrative law officer may vacate a default order
upon the timely filing of a motion pursuant to Section 2-922 of Article IX of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances.
(m) Any fine or other sanction or costs imposed, or any part thereof, remaining unpaid after the
expiration of the time limit prescribed for judicial review under the Administrative Review Law is a debt
due and owed to Cook County and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
(n) Service of the notice or citation on the operator of the vehicle shall constitute service of the
notice of or citation for the violation on the owner of the vehicle.
(o) The owner and operator of the vehicle shall be jointly and severally liable for any claims,
losses, expenses or damages incurred by Cook County for any injury to persons or damage to public or
private property caused, in whole or in part, by the operation of the vehicle in violation of any weight
limitation, size limitation, or other limitation imposed by this chapter, or any violation of a term or
condition of a permit issued under Section. 66-126.

 page 82
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
GRANT AWARDS
ITEM #6
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 18, 2010 from
DAVID R. RAMOS, SR. Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management
requesting authorization to accept a grant in the amount of $490,180.58 from the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA), Springfield, Illinois, for the provision of financial assistance for the
continued development and operation of the Department of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management (DHS&EM). The Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) is provided as
required by State Statute (20 ILCS 3305/1) and Cook County Ordinance (06-O-29).
Authorization to accept the previous grant award was given by the Board of Commissioners on February
4, 2009 in the amount of $338,303.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $490,180.58. Funding period: October 1, 2009 through
September 30, 2010.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
* * * * *
ITEM #7
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 18, 2010 from
DAVID R. RAMOS, SR. Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management
requesting authorization to accept a grant in the amount of $15,225,309.00 from the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA), Springfield, Illinois, for the provision of the 2009 Urban Area Security
Initiative (UASI).

 page 83
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT continued
GRANT AWARDS continued
ITEM #7 cont’d
The UASI grant has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines established by the United States
Department of Homeland Security. These funds will provide for maintenance of Cook County’s
interoperable wireless data communication system, the continuation of the purchase of equipment,
and installation and maintenance of the interoperable radio communication system to be used by
emergency responders throughout Cook County. The UASI grant also provides equipment and supplies
for fire, police, emergency management personnel, and public health medical staff/first responders.
Permission is hereby requested for the Executive Director of the Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management to enter into agreements with the Sheriff, other Cook County agencies, political
subdivisions of Cook County and nonprofit agencies with respect to the distribution of these funds and
the activities required to implement the programs funded through the grant.
It is respectfully requested that the Executive Director of the Department of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management, or his designee, on behalf of Cook County, be authorized to execute any and all
necessary documents to further the project approval therein, including, but not limited to, the sub-grantee
agreement and any modification thereto.
Authorization to accept the previous grant award was given by the Board of Commissioners on November
5, 2008 in the amount of $15,904,525.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None.
2009 through December 31, 2011.

Grant Award:

$15,225,309.00.

Funding period:

August 1,

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

 page 84
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR
REPORTS
ITEM #8
RECEIVED AND FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 8, 2010 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting our "Status of Audit Recommendations" report for December 2009 with updates for the Cook
County Sheriff - Fees and Trust Funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #9
RECEIVED AND FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 11, 2010 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting herewith a copy of the Chief Financial Officer Transitional Audit report for the period
February 6, 2007 through April 16, 2009.
* * * **
ITEM #10
RECEIVED AND FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 29, 2010 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting herewith a copy of the report on Cook County's compliance with the audit requirements of the
Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Grant No. 00-129999, including a Revenue
and Expenditures Statement, with budget comparison, for the grant period ending June 30, 2008.
This was an Illinois FIRST grant administered by the Cook County Assessor's Office, and known as the
Cook County Tax Reactivation Project.

 page 85
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES
RESOLUTION
ITEM #11
APPROVED
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the Resolution for the Levy of
Taxes for the Fiscal Year 2010 be approved and adopted. Commissioner Daley called for a Roll Call, the
vote of yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON THE MOTION TO APPROVE
Yeas:

Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Peraica,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and President Pro Tempore Moreno - 15.

Nays:

None.

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers and Reyes - 2.

The motion to approve CARRIED and the Levy of Taxes for the Fiscal Year 2010 was APPROVED
AND ADOPTED.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to reconsider the vote by which the
Levy of Taxes for the Fiscal Year 2010 was approved and adopted. Commissioner Daley called for a
Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO RECONSIDER
Yeas:

None.

Nays:

Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Peraica,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and President Pro Tempore Moreno - 15.

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers and Reyes - 2.

The motion to reconsider FAILED.

 page 86
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 28, 2010 from
JOHN P. DALEY, Chairman, Committee on Finance, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Your Committee on Finance has considered and reviewed the subject of the annual levy of taxes for the
Fiscal Year A.D., 2010, together with the several sums necessary to be levied to meet the needs and
requirements of the County of Cook for that period.
The Committee, therefore, requests your careful consideration and examination of the “Resolution for the
Levy of Taxes for the Fiscal Year A.D., 2010,” submitted herewith, and further recommends its adoption
and passage by the Board of Commissioners.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
FOR THE LEVY OF TAXES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2010
WHEREAS, the Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, has
considered the subject of the Annual Tax Levy for the Fiscal Year A.D., 2010, and the several sums
necessary to be levied to meet the needs and requirements of the County of Cook for said fiscal year, and
has recommended that this Resolution for the Levy of Taxes be adopted, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois, approved, passed, and adopted the
Annual Appropriation Bill of the County of Cook, for its Fiscal Year 2010, and which said Appropriation
Bill is hereinafter set forth, together with an additional marginal column therein captioned: "AMOUNTS
OF APPROPRIATIONS PAYABLE FROM THE TAX LEVY"
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, that the sum of $720,483,542 which is to be collected from the
Annual Tax Levy for the Fiscal Year A.D. 2010 of the County of Cook for the Corporate Fund purposes
of said County, and for the Public Safety Fund purposes of said County, and for the Health Program Fund
purposes of said County, and for the payment of principal and interest on general obligation bonds of said
County, and for Cook County Employees Annuity and Benefit Fund, and for the Election Fund: said sum
being the total amount of appropriations heretofore legally made and contained in the Annual
Appropriation Bill (hereinafter set forth in the Resolution) for the Fiscal Year 2010 duly adopted by the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County, on Thursday, November 19, 2009, at a meeting convened on
November 19, 2009 be and said sum of $720,483,542 is hereby levied on and upon all taxable property in
the said County of Cook for the current Fiscal Year 2010. The specific amounts herein levied for the
various purposes heretofore named are stated in this Resolution, and Tax Levy, by being listed and
itemized in the separate columns captioned: "AMOUNTS OF APPROPRIATION PAYABLE FROM
THE TAX LEVY." The tax hereby levied for said Fiscal Year 2010 for said appropriations, to be
collected from this Levy, being the aforesaid total, consists of the following specific amount levied for the
various purposes hereinafter set forth:

 page 87
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES continued
PROPOSED RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #11 cont’d
Corporate Purposes Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total Corporate Purposes Fund
Public Safety Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total Public Safety Fund
County Health Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total County Health Fund
Bond and Interest Funds
County Employees Annuity & Benefit Fund
Election Fund
Allowance for Uncollected Taxes
Total Election Fund
Total Tax Levy

$11,459,925
354,431
$ 11,814,356
186,187,626
5,758,380
191,946,006
135,965,450
4,205,117
140,170,567
190,760,412
141,841,605
42,670,482
1,280,114
$ 43,950,596
$720,483,542

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
OPEN MARKET PURCHASE ORDER REPORT
ITEM #12
RECEIVED AND FILED
Transmitting a Communication from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
pursuant to Cook County Code, Section 34-123, the Office of the Purchasing Agent is submitting the
Open Market Purchase Order Report for the time period of October 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009.

 page 88
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
ITEM #13
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 7, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
replacement of retaining walls at Busse Forest North, 1400 East Higgins Road, Elk Grove Village,
Illinois, in Elk Grove Township, County Board District #15.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

091095
$5,527.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $5,527.50.
* * * * *
ITEM #14
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 6, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
landscaping at Camp Sagawau Learning Center at 12545 West 111th Street, Lemont, Illinois, in Lemont
Township, County Board District #17.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

090905
$2,325.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,325.00.
* * * * *

 page 89
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #15
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 6, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
roofing at the police administrative headquarters at 1 Aloha Lane, Oak Brook, Illinois, in Proviso
Township, County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

100169
$1,575.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,575.00.
* * * * *
ITEM #16
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 7, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
demolition of the watchman residence at 27W416 Route 58, Elgin, Illinois, in Hanover Township, County
Board District #15.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

100027
$307.50

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $307.50.
* * * * *

 page 90
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #17
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 7, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
demolition of the watchman residence at 22921 Torrence Avenue, Chicago Heights, Illinois, in Bloom
Township, County Board District #5.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 100%:

100031
$360.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $360.00.
100% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
100% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:

$10,095.00
$0.00

* * * * *
ITEM #18
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 7, 2010 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a 10% Reduced Fee Permit for Fourth Avenue Gospel Building, Inc.,
for temporary tents at 2640 Landen Avenue, Melrose Park, Illinois, in Leyden Township, County Board
District #9.
Permit #:
Total Fee Amount:
Requested Waived Fee Amount 90%
Amount Due 10%:

100123
$1,860.00
$1,674.00
$186.00

 page 91
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING continued
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES continued
ITEM #18 cont’d
This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that valid not-for-profit organizations be required to pay ten percent [10%] of the standard permit
fee as established by Ordinance.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,674.00.
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2010 TO PRESENT:

$ 1,674.00
$
0.00

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
ITEM #19
APPROVED
COMMISSIONER DALEY VOTED "PRESENT" ON CONTRACT NO. 09-IFGFR-03-GM
REBID WITH GFS FENCE, GUARDRAIL & SIGNAGE, INC.
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
Transmitting Contracts and Bonds executed by the contractors for approval and execution as requested by
the Superintendent of Highways.

 page 92
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
JUDICIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #20
WITHDRAWN
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 11, 2010 from
DANIEL J. COUGHLIN, Executive Director, Judicial Advisory Council
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $142,207.73 to the City of Chicago's Office of
Emergency Management and Communications, Chicago, Illinois, for the second and final payment of the
federally required Cook County portion of the Fy 2007 - 2008 Regional Catastrophic Preparedness Grant.
The Memorandum of Understanding was reviewed and approved by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners at their Board meeting of October 6, 2009.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $142,207.73. (205-818 Account).

 page 93
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CONTRACT
ITEM #21
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 4, 2010 from
R. STEVE EDMONSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Kucera International, Inc.,
Willoughby, Ohio, for a three year aerial oblique project to capture three (3) separate missions of oblique
aerial imagery (Spring 2010, Spring 2011, and Spring 2012). Each mission will include as a project area
approximately one-third of the County. This tripartite arrangement is predicated upon a triennial cycle
that is employed by the Assessor's Office to manage property evaluations. This time sensitive project is
performed in the spring under "leaf-off" conditions.
Reason:

Based upon a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the selection of a vendor to capture aerial
oblique images, award is being recommended based on Kucera International, Inc.’s technical
solution, expertise and lowest cost of the vendor's submissions who met all of the County's
specifications.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $362,000.00 (FY 2010 - $126,000.00; FY 2011 - $118,000.00; and FY 2012 $118,000.00). Contract period: March 1, 2010 through February 28, 2013. (545-260 Account).
Requisition No. 05450006.
Sufficient funds are available in the Geographical Information Systems Fund.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

 page 94
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
CHANGE ORDERS
ITEM #22
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 2, a ninety (90) day time extension to the
contract with Reliable & Associates Construction Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for the construction
of the flammable liquid storage room - former 12KV Building at the Stroger Hospital of Cook County
Campus. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body approve this request.
Reason:

Additional contract time is needed for ComEd to design and install new service and
equipment. ComEd has not completed their portion of the work; therefore the substantial
completion date has to be extended.
This is a request for a time extension only, for ninety (90) calendar days and does not include
any monetary increase. The time extension of ninety (90) calendar days will result in a
revised substantial completion date of March 15, 2010.
Contract No. 07-53-552
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:
Amount of this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$626,560.00
16,061.00
$642,621.00
.00
$642,621.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: December 15, 2009 through March 15, 2010.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board approved this item at their meeting of January 29,
2010.
* * * * *

 page 95
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY continued
CHANGE ORDERS continued
ITEM #23
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 22, 2010 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
transmitted herewith for your approval is Change Order No. 3 to the contract with Ideal Heating
Company, Brookfield, Illinois, for the Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County and Provident Hospital of
Cook County Pharmacy HVAC Upgrade Project. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body
approve this request.
Reason:

This request is for a time extension for 169 (one hundred sixty nine calendar days) due to the
administrative concerns regarding the design of the relocation of the biological safety
cabinets.
This item is categorized as an HVAC Upgrade Project.
Contract No. 07-53-550
Original Contract Sum:
Total Changes to-date:
Adjusted Contract to-date:
Amount this Modification:
Adjusted Contract Sum:

$1,164,000.00
18,364.00
$1,182,364.00
.00
$1,182,364.00

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: September 12, 2009 through February 28, 2010.
This project was included in the 2009 Capital Improvement Program projects approved by the Board of
Commissioners on April 2, 2009.
The Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board approved this item at their meeting of January 22,
2009 2010.

 page 96
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
DEPARTMENT OF FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #24
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 13, 2010 from
JAMES D'AMICO, Director, Department of Facilities Management
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of lamp supplies
for the various locations maintained by the Department of Facilities Management.
Contract period: May 1, 2010 through April 30, 2011. (200-333 Account). Requisition No. 02000087.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #25
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 13, 2010 from
JAMES D'AMICO, Director, Department of Facilities Management
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of plumbing
supplies for the various locations maintained by the Department of Facilities Management.
Contract period: May 15, 2010 through May 14, 2011. (200-333 Account). Requisition No. 02000088.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.
* * * * *
ITEM #26
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 13, 2010 from
JAMES D'AMICO, Director, Department of Facilities Management
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of lock supplies
for the various locations maintained by the Department of Facilities Management.
Contract period: June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2011. (200-333 Account). Requisition No. 02000089.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2011 funds.

 page 97
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
GRANT AWARD
ITEM #27
APPROVED AS AMENDED
COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI VOTED "PRESENT".
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 22, 2010 from
MAURICE S. JONES, Director, Department of Planning and Development
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $12,969,000.00 $12,696,000.00 from
the Department of Energy (DOE) for the purposes of aiding Cook County in the conservation of energy.
The Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program (EECBG) is a new program that the
Bureau of Community Development intends to make available to suburban Cook County municipalities
and non-profit organizations. The funding opportunity is made available through the DOE American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The EECBG is focused on energy efficiency; structural and
community retrofitting; energy and green development initiatives; industrial building audits; and solar
and wind energy projects.
I respectfully request approval to accept this grant award and that the Chief of the Bureau of Community
Development, or his designee, is authorized to execute on behalf of the County of Cook. This includes
any and all documents necessary to further the programs approved herein, but not limited to subrecipient
agreements, intergovernmental agreements and any modifications thereto. The approval of this award for
administration of the Program by this Honorable Body will permit the Energy Efficiency and
Conservation Block Grant Program to move forward.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award:
December 31, 2009 through December 30, 2012.

$12,969,000.00 $12,696,000.00.

Funding period:

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

 page 98
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

BUREAU OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT continued
2009 COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STATERGY (CEDS)
ITEM #28
REFERRED TO THE REAL ESTATE & BUSINESS & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SUBCOMMITTEE #305006
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 19, 2010 from
MAURICE S. JONES, Director, Department of Planning and Development
request to refer to Committee the approval of the 2009 update of the Comprehensive Economic
Development Strategy (CEDS) of the Cook County Economic Development Advisory Committee.
We found CEDS to fulfill its function to report on the previous year’s economic activities and
effectiveness, to identify changes and trends in the region’s economic conditions, and to present the
economic development goals and activities for the coming year.
CEDS meet the requirements of the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to qualify Cook
County, Chicago and suburban jurisdictions within its boundaries as eligible to apply for EDA funding of
economic development projects.

 page 99
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION DEPARTMENT
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #29
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 29, 2009 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $6,666.64 and extend for two (2)
months, Contract No. 07-53-376 Rebid with Valerie Walls Professional Janitorial Services, Chicago,
Illinois, for janitorial services.
Board approved amount 01-09-08:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$79,999.68
_6,666.64
$86,666.32

This increase and extension would provide for the continuation of janitorial services in
accordance with the department's lease agreements while the new contract (Contract No. 0953-2463) is under evaluation. The expiration date of the current contract was February 5,
2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $6,666.64. Contract extension: February 6, 2010 through April 5, 2010. (280235 Account).
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #30
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 27, 2010 from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $47,458.35 to Treatment Alternatives for Safe
Communities, Inc. (TASC), Chicago, Illinois, for drug testing services for the Adult Probation
Department.
Reason:

This request is for payment of services for the months of August 2009, and September 2009,
for drug testing of adult probationers. These invoices are higher than was estimated and
additional funds are needed to pay them. The new drug testing (Contract No. 09-73-119)
started on October 1, 2009.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $47,458.35. (532-278 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the Adult Probation/Probation Service Fee Fund.

 page 100
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #31
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 14, 2010 from
DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the manufacturing and printing
of the 2011 court file jackets.
One time purchase. (529-240 Account). Requisition No. 05290005.

 page 101
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF DEEDS
CONTRACTS
ITEM #32
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 19, 2010 from
EUGENE "GENE" MOORE, Cook County Recorder of Deeds
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Fidlar Technologies, Inc.,
Rock Island, Illinois, for data sales and marketing agreement.
Reason:

The Cook County Recorder of Deeds (CCRD) seeks permission to negotiate a contract with
Fidlar Technologies, Inc. to market and sell CCRD data and images utilizing a revenue share
model. This arrangement will constitute a public/private partnership with a private corporation
that has an established marketing strategy and customer base of over 7,000 subscribers and
individual users. The arrangement makes use of pay-as-you-go, as well as subscription rate
services. It will require no fees, up front, from the company or the County and will represent
new strategies of blending information with users.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Estimated revenue generating: $350,000.00 (Based on the orders per
month that are processed for data and images sales). Contract period: February 1, 2010 through January
31, 2011.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the technical aspect of this
recommendation.
* * * * *
ITEM #33
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
EUGENE "GENE" MOORE, Cook County Recorder of Deeds
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Red Vision Systems, Inc.,
Parsippany, New Jersey, for marketing and selling of Recorder of Deeds' indexing data.
Reason:

Red Vision Systems, Inc. agrees to pay a one time fee of $20,000.00 for marketing and data
sales. Red Vision Systems, Inc. will pay the Recorder of Deeds office a monthly fee of no
less than $18,750.00 to process up to 2500 orders per month for data and images to their
clients.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Estimated revenue generating: $245,000.00 (Based on the orders per
month that are processed for data and images sales). Contract period: February 1, 2010 through January
31, 2011.
The Chief Information Officer has reviewed this item and concurs with the technical aspect of this
recommendation.

 page 102
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
POLICE DEPARTMENT
GRANT AWARD ADDENDUM
ITEM #34
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 11, 2010 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
DEWAYNE E. HOLBROOK, Chief of Police, Sheriff's Police Department
requesting authorization to extend an existing grant for six (6) months from the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA). This extension will provide for the purchase and acquisition of items,
materials and supplies necessary for protecting, securing and reducing the vulnerabilities of identified
critical infrastructure and key resource sites throughout Cook County.
The authorization to accept the original grant was given on December 17, 2008 by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners in the amount of $67,205.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Funding period extension: October 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010.
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.

 page 103
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PENDING LITIGATION
ITEM #35
REFERRED TO THE LITIGATION SUBCOMMITTEE
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 14, 2010 from
ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State's Attorney
by
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1. Freddie Parker for the Estate of Juanita King v. County, Case No. 08-L-6112
#305007
2. Comprehensive Pharmacy Services v. Cook County, Case No. 09-L-5272
#305008
3. Danielle Bryant v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-1546
#305009
4. Katrina Embrey v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-3470
#305010
5. Deborah Lee v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-7789
#305011
6. Marilu Morales v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-3546
#305012
7. Benetta Sidney v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-7790
#305013

 page 104
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY continued
PENDING LITIGATION continued
ITEM #35 cont’d
8. Charone Smith v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-7791
#305014
9. Joy Vitirtti v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 09-C-7792
#305015
10. Catherine Zaborowski, et al. v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 08-C-6946
#305016
11. Taser v. Cook County, Case No. 09-CH-17656
#305017
12. Henderson v. Karlos, et al., Case No. 08-C-5966
#305018
13. Larocca v. Baldovin and Cook County, Case No. 08-L-65047
#305019
14. Junious v. Godinez and Currie, Case No. 09-C-2415
#305020
15. Robert Tarnoff v. Boyd, Case No. 08-C-1184
#305021

 page 105
POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 9, 2010

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY continued
PENDING LITIGATION continued
ITEM #35 cont’d
16. Talley v. Thomas Dart, Case No. 08-C-5485
#305022
17. Gawlinski v. Rodriguez v. McNulty and Cook County, Case No. 07-L-006746
#305023
18. Douglas Lemon v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 08-C-7179
#305024

* * * * *
The next regularly scheduled meeting is presently set for Tuesday, March 2, 2010.

 