JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY

"While the Cook County Board of Commissioners makes every
attempt to keep the record of its proceedings up to date with
current law and policies, the Board does not guarantee the
accuracy, legality, reliability or content of any of the
information contained herein in journals prior to December 6,
2010, and that the information is provided as submitted to the
Cook County Clerk".
DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY

NOVEMBER 8, 2001
(SPECIAL MEETING)

JOHN H. STROGER, JR., PRESIDENT
JERRY BUTLER
ALLAN C. CARR
EARLEAN COLLINS
JOHN P. DALEY
GREGG GOSLIN
CARL R. HANSEN
TED LECHOWICZ
ROBERTO MALDONADO

WILLIAM R. MORAN
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO
MIKE QUIGLEY
HERBERT T. SCHUMANN, JR.
PETERN. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
BOBBIE L. STEELE
CAL VIN R. SUTKER

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR NOVEMBER 8, 2001

Call of the Meeting .......................................................................................................... .... .................. 3793
Call to Order ...... .................... ... ............. ... ......... ... ..... ...... ................ ....... ................... ......................... .. 3795

Budget Message of the President to the Board of Commissioners .. .................................................... 3795
Adjournment ......... ................................. .................................................... ........................................... 3798

  

 

 

 

 

I.I

 

 

JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

OF COOK COUNTY

Meeting of Thursday, November 8, 2001
10:30 A.M.
Central Standard Time
COOK COUNTY BOARD ROOM, COUNTY BUILDING

Board met pursuant to the following call :
November 5, 200 I
T he Honorable David Orr
Cook County C lerk
69 West Washi ngton Street
Chicago, Illi nois 60602
Dear Mr. Orr:
Purs uant to the a uthority vested in me, I hereby call a Specia l Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County fo r T hursday, November 8, 200 I, at the ho ur of I 0:30 A.M., in the County Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 118 North C lark Street, Chicago, Illinois, at which meeti ng I will present
the Message of the President to the Board of Commi ssioners s ubmitting the Exec uti ve Budget fo r Fiscal
Year 2002.
Yours very truly,
JO HN H. STROGER, JR., President
Cook County Board of Comm issioners

3793

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 8, 2001

COPY OF LETTER SENT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
November 5, 2001
Honorable President and
Members of the Cook County
Board of Comm issioners
Ladies and Gentlemen:
John H. Stroger, Jr., President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Thursday, November 8, 200 I, at the
hour of I0:30 A.M., in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the Message of the President to the Board of Cook County
Commissioners submitting the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2002 will be presented.
Very truly yours,
DA YID ORR, County Clerk

* * * * *
This is to certify that a copy of the above notice was handed delivered and personally addressed to each
member of the Board of Cook County Commissioners at their home address and was deposited in the
United States Mail on November 5, 2001.
DA YID ORR, County Clerk

* * * * *
The following Legal Notice appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times Newspaper on Wednesday, November 7,
2001.

LEGAL NOTICE
John H. Stroger, Jr., President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Thursday, November 8, 2001, at the
hour of I 0:30 A.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the Message of the President to the Board of Cook County
Comm issioners submitting the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2002 will be presented.
Very truly yours,
DA YID ORR, Cook County and Clerk
of the Board of the Commissioners of Cook County, Illinoi s
November 7, 2001

3794

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 8, 2001

OFFICIAL RECORD
President Stroger in the Chair.

CALL TO ORDER
At 10:30 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.

QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.

ROLL CALL
Present:

Carr, Collins, Daley, Hansen, Lechowicz, Maldonado, Moran, Moreno, Quigley, Silvestri,
Sims, Steele, Sutker, Stroger-14.

Absent:

Butler, Goslin, Schumann-3.

BUDGET MESSAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
to the

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2002
November 8, 2001
To the Honorable Members of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We meet today at a crossroad where uncertainty and opportunity intersect ... for our nation and for Cook
County.
In an uncertain economy and an uncertain world, we turn to our public institutions for protection. And
the County plays a central role in providing vital public safety and health services.
I transmit to you thi s morning my recommended Executive Budget for the year 2002. I present to you a
budget that is balanced, that does not raise new taxes or increase existing taxes ... and that maintains
County services without reducing the current workforce.
In preparing this budget, I directed my finance team to accomplish the fo llowing goals:
•
To fund essential services and functions without increasing cost to the taxpayers;
•
To keep the commitments we have made to our workforce;
•
To recommend appropriate management controls for prudent administration of the budget; and
•
To present a balanced budget.

3795

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 8, 2001

With financial market uncertainty already taking hold before the events of September, this budget is the
most difficult and challenging of the previous six that I have presented to this honorable body.
In developing this year's budget, I took several decisive and prudent actions to protect the financial gains
that we have worked so hard to achieve over the past several years. I asked that all Elected Officials and
Department Heads hold their 2002 budget requests to the 200 I appropriation. I also directed the Budget
Department to publish departmental budget requests. Finally, I implemented a Countywide-hiring freeze.
While we have made a valiant attempt to control costs, this effort will require greater participation from
all elected officials and department heads in the future .
The $2. 7 bi II ion dollar balanced budget, an increase of less than I% over last year, fully funds our
commitments and obligations. This is a conservative spending proposal. I have taken a series of steps to
control and reduce spending.

* I am ordering that the hiring freeze on non-essential positions imposed last summer be extended
through at least the first quarter of the new year. To date the freeze has resulted in savings of $15
million.

* We will pursue an Early Retirement Initiative for nearly 3,400 eligible county employees. A
similar effort four years ago saved Cook County $10 million by eliminating non-essential
positions.
* This budget reflects the savings produced by those departments and elected officials who met
my request to come in with a budget at 200 I appropriation levels.
* Thi s budget cuts funding for non-essential travel, seminars and supplies, saving $6 million.
* This budget eliminates I 00 full-time equivalent vacant positions coming from departments
under my direction, from the Office of the Treasurer and from the Office of the Chief Judge.
Elimination of these positions saves $5.5 million from this budget.
* We will

continue to benefit from the cumulative effect of the 1,000 positions eliminated from
departments under my control since 1995. These reductions were primarily at Cook County
Hospital and reflect an annual saving of $59 million ... and this is a significant step in achieving
the projected $80 million to be saved as a result of a new downsized Cook County Hospital.

During this past year, 1 formed the County Operations Review Team to identify ways to improve
efficiency and cost-effectiveness in providing County services. The findings of the CORT team were
forwarded to this board in July.
This budget incorporates several of the opportunities identified by the CORT team with savings that total
$10 million. For example:
•
The consolidation of pharmacy contracts within the Bureau of Health Services will save $8
million in this budget...and more in subsequent years.
•
The County Clerk will prepare the layout of the election ballots and print sample and absentee
ballots in-house, saving taxpayers $800,000.
•
Utility and telephone audits have already begun, and we expect to realize $1 million from these
initiatives.
The disciplined spending reflected in this budget is supported by our efforts to identify alternative sources
of revenue to fund necessary growth.

3796

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 8, 200 1

Since I was first elected President we have steadily reduced Cook County 's reliance on real estate taxes
from 32.2 percent of the budget in 1995 to 26.3 percent of the budget for 2002. Historically, Cook
County received I 0 cents of each dollar paid for property tax. With the declining reliance on property
taxes, that amount has now been reduced to 8.9 cents of each dollar.
During this same time patient fees derived from o ur health care system have grown fro m $32 1 million in
1995 to $45 1 million in 2002 ... as we have soug ht federal and state suppott and have enhanced
collections from individ uals and third paities . In thi s budget year health revenues will grow by $38
million.
We have developed a cooperative relationship with the Governor and the General Assembly resulting in
increased fu nd ing for a growing number of County programs. $6 Million has been appropriated to
reimburse Cook County for some of the costs of operating the juvenile detention center. Over the next
two years the State will fund legal representation fo r criminal appeals relieving Cook County from
funding these services.
With the C ity of Chicago and other agencies, we w ill consolidate procurement of employee health
benefits to take advantage of discounts availab le in the market place. This program will result in
significant savings witho ut compromising the level of coverage provided to our employees. We have
invested county funds prudently and will use $14 million of the interest earned on investment of working
cash funds towards th is budget.
The property tax levy remains level at $720.5 million as it has been for the last three years.
While we have honored our pledge to reduce costs, these savings will not come at the expense of vital
services or needed infrastructure maintenance. Our County Highway Department program for next year
wil l bring $12 mill ion worth of resurfacing projects to the City of Chicago. We will initiate $ 14 million
worth of road and bridge improvements and resurfacing in the north suburbs ... and $22 million in
projects fo r south and southwest Cook County.
The next year will see the fulfillment of another commitment I made to the citizens of Cook County - the
opening of a new Cook County Hospital. I am happy to report that the construction of the new hospital is
proceeding on time and on budget. We wi ll begin m oving patients into the new hospital in the late
s ummer.
The 2002 budget will provide $ 15 million more than last year for public safety, a total of $967 million.
Public Safety takes 51 percent of the General Fund budget.
The Health Fund budget of $737 million supports an additional $ I 5 million more than last year and
represents 39% of the General Fund budget.
The Corporate Fund budget of $ I 80 m illion decreases by $4 million as compared to last year and
represents I 0% of the General Fund budget.
As each year approaches, the challenge of preparing a sound-spending plan wi ll become more demand ing.
I have committed to identifying and implementing cost saving opportunities throughout the operating
depa1tments under my direction. I encourage the e lected officials to likewise implement the cost saving
opportuniti es which have been identified through the CORT report.

3797

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR NOVEMBER 8, 2001

Providing cost-effective governmental services relies on strategic partnerships with our employees and
their bargaining representatives. As I call on the elected officials to assist in planning for the future
financial health of this county, I also call upon the representatives of our county ' s unionized workforce to
assist us in identifying opportunities to reduce the escalating costs of serving the public. County officials,
employees, and bargaining representatives are all partners in this enterprise. We will all benefit from
making county government a cost-effective model for the future.
Again, I present to you a budget for fiscal year 2002 which is balanced, which does not raise new taxes or
increase existing taxes, and which maintains vital services without reducing the current workforce. The
concerns I expressed to you last year ring true today and will be true as we move forward. We must find
ways to reduce the cost of providing services and we must be vigilant in managing the appropriations,
which will be made on this budget recommendation.
Thank you.

JOHN H. STROGER, JR., President

* * * * *
The Message of the President to the Board of Cook County Commissioners was given by President
Stroger.

* * * * *
President Stroger then submitted the Executive Budget to the Board of Commissioners for the Fiscal Year
2002, for referral to the Committee on Finance.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Hansen, moved that the President's Executive Budget
be referred to the Committee on Finance. The motion carried unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved that the Special Meeting do now
adjourn.
The motion prevailed and the Special Meeting stood adjourned.
The next regular County Board Meeting is scheduled by law, for Tuesday, November 20, 2001.

County Clerk

3798

 