 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Workforce, Housing Community Development Public Hearing and Committee

Wednesday, February 15, 2017 10:00 AM City Council Chambers (ADA Accessible),
2nd Floor
121 N. LaSalle St, Chicago, IL 60602
ATTENDANCE
Present: Gainer, Boykin and Tobolski (3)
Absent: Sims and Suffredin (2)
Also Present: Silvestri and Steele (2)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

. Dr. John Jay Shannon - CEO, Cook County Health and Hospitals System
. Dr. Julie Morita - Commissioner, Department of Public Health

. Patrick Gallagher? Illinois Hospital Association

. Marva Hall - City Colleges ofChicago

. ErikVerela - Of?ce of the Cook County Board President

. Bob Smoot- Senior VP Chief Mission Of?cer, AMITA Health
. Judith Haais, Community Health

. Dan Rabbitt - Heartland Alliance

. Gustavo Flores - Community Member

10. John Peller Aids Foundation Chicago

11. Michelle Garcia - Healthy Communities United

12. Dr. Debra Stanford - Target Area Development Corp

13. Abrah Qudar Compassionate Care Network

14. Greg Kelley - Executive Vice President, Healthcare

15. Antonio Maggitt - Student Activist

16. George Blackmore - Concerned Citizen



17-1165
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA and
LUIS ARROYO .l R, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ORDINANCE MODIFICATION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a ?Fair and Equal County for Immigrants,? and

WHEREAS, the provision of Cook County bene?ts, opportunities, or services is not conditioned on
matters related to citizenship or immigration status; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Code currently contains multiple references to ?citizen? instead of
?resident.?

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Administration, Article
IV, Officers and Employees, Division 5, Inspector General, Section 2-284(10) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 2-284. - Functions, authority and powers

In addition to other powers conferred herein, the OIIG shall have the following functions, authority
and powers:



(10) To create and maintain a toll-free "Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General Hotline? for the

purpose of receiving GHl-ZeH-?-?d?em-pleyee reports of corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement,
unlawful political discrimination and misconduct. The identity of any individual placing a call to
the Office of the Inspector General Hotline shall be kept con?dential during and after the
investigation of any complaint made by the caller, unless the caller consents to disclosure of his or
her name or disclosure of the caller's identity is otherwise required by law. Alternatively, reports
may be made anonymously.



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Administration, Article V, Departments and Similar Agencies, Division 3, Bureau of Finance, Subdivision
Department of Revenue, Section of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-434. - Power and duties of Director of Revenue

The Department of Revenue shall have the following powers and duties:



(5) To investigate, analyze and propose new revenue programs for the County toward the end that the
?nancial burdens of revenue, tax, license and permit fees may be equitably distributed among?the
eitizens?ofwithin the County.



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Administration, Article VII, Ethics, Division 3, Lobbyists, Subdivision Registration, Section 2-638 of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 2-638. - Right to petition County Of?cials

Nothing in this Division shall be construed to infringe in any way the right?ef?a?eitizen to lawfully
petition a Commissioner or any other County Of?cial as guaranteed by the constitutions of the United
States and the State.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Animals,
Article I, In General, Sections and 10-3(b) of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 10-1. - Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to provide harmonious relationships in the interaction between Qman
and animal by:

1) Protecting the?emieHs?e?tlvre?Ge-unty from rabies by Specifying such preventive and control

measures as may be necessary;



Sec. 10-3. - Violations



    

- brought in the Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin all persons in the control of a dangerous animal
from allowing or permitting such animal to leave their premises when not under the control of a leash
and muzzle or other recognized methods of physical restraint.

     



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Animals,
Article Vicious and Dangerous Dogs, Section 10?78(d) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 10?78. - Declaration of a "vicious" dog



 

.
A a. n. In. an.

the Circuit Court of the County?te?deem?a?deg?a

'l'l 

In order to have a dog deemed "vicious" a complaint must be ?led
An?: . .-



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter I4,
Community Development, Article IX, Commission on Social Innovation, Section 14?92(0 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 14?92. - Purpose

The purpose of this article is to create the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation, which shall
engage in the following activities:



The commission shall identify

concerning - - - a .. . 
entrepreneurial concepts speci?cally as applied in the social sector.

 
 
 
  

useful strategies to educate-and?trainmvide education and training

FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26,
Emergency Management and Services, Article 9-1-1 Surcharge, Section 26-80 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 26-80. - Limitation on use of County funds

The County shall not expend any County funds for the implementation, installation and
maintenance or other related costs attributable to providing a 9?1-1 emergency system for the eitiiens?ei
the County. However, the County may pay for the personnel necessary to operate the 9-1-1 system.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance,
Article IV, Procurement Code, Division 8, Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprises, Subdivision
I, General Provisions, Section 34-263 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-263. - De?nitions

Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias
within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual

qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control. 

. . . .
nnhII-ql novr?nn ?11101- l?u null?Ian run lemurs-?x: n?rl11?ll?l1f nF flu; ind-curl Cfol?oo
nutulul [Jul u? u. UluzA-vu UI [J?s/1111141191?. Us LJLUIWT

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance,
Article IV, Procurement Code, Division 8, Minority and Woman Owned Business Enterprises, Subdivision
II, Participation in Cook County Public Works Contracts, Section 34-290 of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-290. - De?nitions

Socially Disadvantaged means having been subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias
within American society because of identity as a member of a group, and without regard to individual
qualities, stemming from circumstances beyond the relevant person's control. 

. . . . .
noronn rnuc-?l- km a nil-swan nv nAenIHnA Harman-1911f vnolrion'l' nF?I-lxo Ilnifarl anfar-
Jun u. ut IUJILIVIIL U1 utuLvo.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human
Relations, Article 11, Human Rights, Section of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 42-34. - Commission on Human Rights

The organization and administration of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall be
suf?ciently independent to assure that no interference or influence external to the of?ce adversely affects
the independence and objectivity of the Commission on Human Rights.



Additional powers and duties. The Commission shall have such additional powers and duties as
reasonably ?ow from its responsibilities, including but not limited to:



(2) Advising and consulting with the President, the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and
officials, departments, and agencies of the County government on assuring and improving the

equality of services-te?aH?eiti-zens.



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46, Law
Enforcement, Article IV, Jail Diversion Program, Division 2, Program Established, Section 46-2010) of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 46-201. - Purpose
The purposes of the County Jail Diversion Program are to:



(7) Improve positive relationships between target p0pulation-eitizens and law enforcement of?cers.



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54,
Licenses, Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article 11, Dance Halls and Roadhouses,
Division 2, License, Section 54-61 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 54-61. - License required

No of this State shall Operate a public dance hall or roadhouse used
for public dances in the County, and outside the limits of any city, town or village, without ?rst having

obtained a County roadhouse license for each location of any roadhouse or dance hall.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54,
Licenses, Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article IV, Outdoor Movie Theaters, Division
2, License, Section 54-27] of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 54-271. - Required

No of this State shall operate a public outdoor movie theater used for
public viewing of motion pictures or city, town, or village, without first having obtained an outdoor movie
theater license for each location.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54,
Licenses, Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article X, General Business Licenses, Section
54-381 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 54-381. - Purpose

The Cook County Board of Commissioners

has deemed it necessary to establish a General Business
License for Unincorporated Cook County for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 78,
Telecommunications, Article 11, Cable Television Ordinance, Section 78-41(4) of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 78-41. - Purpose

The purpose of this article is to:



(3) Provide for the development of cable television as a means to improve communication between
and among the e?itieenspersons and public institutions of the County; and



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 82, Traf?c
and Vehicles, Article 1, County Vehicle Code, Section 82?2 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 82-2. - Purpose

     

a. . - .a . .-. 'ThiSVehiCleCOde
was established for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. This Vehicle Code will apply to:
(1) Properties owned and managed by Cook County;

(2) Private properties and roads within Cook County whereby the County has entered into an
agreement to enforce parking and/or traf?c regulations; and

(3) Public Properties and public ways, streets and highways located in incorporated areas of Cook
County, whereby the County has entered into an intergovernmental agreement to enforce parking
and/or traf?c regulations.

(4) Public ways, streets and highways under thejurisdiction of the County located in unincorporated
areas of the County.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part II, Land
Development Ordinances, Appendix A, Zoning, Article 5, Commercial Districts, Section 5.0 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:

5.0. - Purpose

The commercial district regulations are intended to govern the location, intensity and method of
development for business and commercial uses SeHLing?the?eitizen?s?efwithin Cook County. Regulations
provide for groupings of business and commercial uses that are compatible with the type of commodity
sold, the scope of services provided and the method of operations. All business and commercial uses are
contained in the following eight commercial districts:

 

C-l Restricted Business District
C-2 Restricted Office District

C-3 General Service District

C-4 General Commercial District
Commercial Transition District
C-6 Automotive Service District
07 Of?ce/Research Park District
C-8 Intensive Commercial District

For purposes of determining the restrictiveness of the eight commercial zoning districts, each of the districts
shall be deemed independently and equally restrictive.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part II, Land
Development Ordinances, Appendix A, Zoning, Article 1 1, Off-Street Parking and Loading Space, Section
1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

11.2. - Off-Street Parking Space
11.2. 6. Space requirements. All off?street parking space shall meet the following minimum requirements:

A. Residential uses.



7. Senior eitiaen?housing. One off-street parking space shall be provided for every three dwelling
units.



Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

No action taken on 17-1165

17-1732

Sponsored (by: BRIDGET GAINER, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), LUIS ARROYO JR, JESUS
G. GARCIA, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of
Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
HEALTHY WORKFORCE AND HEALTH CARE ACCESS AMENDMENT

WHEREAS, in addition to the various protections offered under the Cook County Human Rights
Ordinance the CCHRO also prohibits persons from engaging in unlawful discrimination in
the provision or distribution of any Cook County (?County?) facilities, services or programs; and

WHEREAS, the CCHRO de?nes unlawful discrimination as ?discrimination against a person because of
the actual or perceived status, practice, or expression of that person?s race, color, sex, age, religion,
disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity or house stats; or the actual or perceived association with such a
person;? and

WHEREAS, while the CCHRO currently prohibits discrimination in the provision or distribution of any
County facilities, services or programs based upon national origin and other protected classes, the
provisions of the CCHRO do not speci?cally cover immigration status or documentation of immigration
status; and

WHEREAS, expansion of the de?nition of unlawful discrimination in the CCHRO to prohibit
discrimination of persons based upon immigrant status or documentation of immigrant status in the
application of County services or programs ensures the equal provision of County services; and

WHEREAS, expansion of the de?nition of unlawful discrimination in the CCHRO to prohibit
discrimination of persons based upon immigrant status provides further con?dence in the County?s
provision of health services and is also bene?cial to the protection of the public health of all County
residents.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter
42 Human Relations, Section 42-39, of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

Sec. 42?39. - County facilities, services and programs.

Prohibition. No person shall engage in unlawful discrimination in the provision or distribution of
any Cook County ("County") facilities, services, or programs. For purposes of this section, ?unlawful
discrimination? shall include immigration status, unless consideration of immigration status is required_by
Federal or State law.

Exception. The Cook County Commission on Human Rights ("Commission") as de?ned in Section
42-34 shall adopt rules specifying any exceptions to the prohibition contained in this section based on bona
?de considerations of public policy.

(0) Sexual harassment.

(1) No person shall engage in sexual harassment in the provision or distribution of any County
facilities, services, or programs.

(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual advance,
request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when:

a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of an individual's use of
County?facilities, or the provision of County services or programs;

b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for any
decision affecting the provision or allocation of County services or programs, or the use of
County facilities; or

0. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's access
to County services, programs, or facilities, or the conduct creates an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive environment for the provision of County services or programs, or in the use of
County facilities.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

No action taken on 17-1732.

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made to adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Boykin and Tobolski (3)

This meeting was held jointly with the City of Chicago Workforce Development and Audit
Committee.

Respectfully submitted,

Mman Secretary



 

 

