Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, October 15, 2014

10:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Room 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Butler, Daley, García, Gorman, Moore, Schneider
Sims, and Steele (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes, Silvestri, and Tobolski (7)

Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
On 10/15/14 Vice Chairman Fritchey asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in Accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd).
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Connie Mennella, MD Chair, Department of Correctional Health, Cermak Health Services of Cook County
Steven Glass, Executive Director of Managed Care, Cook County Health & Hospital System
Andrew Segovia Kulik, MD Chairman, Department of Psychiatry, Cook County Health & Hospital System
Dr. Nneka Jones, First Assistant Director, Sheriff's Office
Inge Fryklwnd, Law Enforcement Against Prohibition (LEAP)
Michi Marshall, Brandon Marshall Foundation
Louie Correa, Executive Director, Brandon Marshall Foundation
Dr, Colleen Cicchetti, SCY Chicago
Moshe Brownstein, National Alliance for the Mentally (NAMI)
Pamela Rodriguez, TASC
Heather O'Donnell, Thresholds
Joel Johnson, President/CEO, Human Resources Development Institute
Donald J Dew, President/CEO, Habilitative Systems, Inc.
Dr Dennis Deer, Deer Rehabilitation Services, Inc.
George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

 14-5248
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CALLING FOR A COOK COUNTY MENTAL HEALTH PUBLIC HEARING
WHEREAS, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), nearly 60 million Americans
experience a mental health condition every year; regardless of race, age, religion or economic status, mental
illness impacts the lives of at least one in four adults and 1 in 10 children across the United States; and
WHEREAS, deinstitutionalization, the name given to the policy of moving severely mentally ill people out of
large state institutions and then closing part or all of those institutions began in 1955 with the widespread
introduction of chlorpromazine, commonly known as Thorazine, the first effective antipsychotic medication, and
received a major impetus 10 years later with the enactment of federal Medicaid and Medicare; and
WHEREAS, deinstitutionalization has inadvertently helped create the mental illness crisis by discharging people
from public psychiatric hospitals without ensuring that they received the medication and rehabilitation services
necessary for them to live successfully in the community; and
WHEREAS, this policy further exacerbated the situation as once the public psychiatric beds had been closed,
they were not available for people who later became mentally ill, a situation that continues to this day; and
WHEREAS, in addition, over the past decade, states have cut billions from their mental health budgets,
shuttering clinics across the country including here in Illinois and Cook County; resulting in thousands of
mentally ill people funneling in and out of the nation's jails that are ill-equipped to handle them, effectively
criminalizing mental illness; and
WHEREAS, according to the most recent national study conducted by the Justice Department's Bureau of
Justice Statistics in 2006, more than half of all prison and jail inmates, including 56 percent of state prisoners,
45 percent of federal prisoners and 64 percent of local jail inmates, were found to have a mental health problem;
and
WHEREAS, jail and prison are particularly bad places for the mentally ill as men and women with behavioral
disorders and mental illness end up in stressful prison environments and many are put in seclusion for long
stretches of time that further exacerbate their conditions; and
WHEREAS, according to a 2010 study by the National Sheriffs’ Association and the Treatment Advocacy
Center, nationwide more than three times as many mentally ill people are housed in prisons and jails as in
hospitals; and
WHEREAS, in Cook County, it is estimated that up to 30% of inmates being held in the county jail have a
mental illness on a given day, making the jail Illinois’ and one of the nation’s largest mental health facilities; and
WHEREAS, it costs $143 per day to house an inmate at the Cook County jail that number jumps to upwards of
$200 and sometimes far more for an inmate with a mental illness, due to the costs of medication and the extra
supervision and care that are required to support them; and
WHEREAS, their cases clog the courts with largely minor offenses that in turn lengthens the jail time for
everyone. The average length of stay is now eight days longer than it was just a few years ago, costing county
taxpayers $10 million more every year, which doesn’t include the associated court costs putting a strain on the
entire criminal justice system in Cook County; and

Page 2 of 4

 WHEREAS, treating the mentally ill in health clinics costs a fraction of what it costs to house them in the county
detention center, not to mention the human aspect of housing the mentally ill in a jail setting, where they are often
preyed upon while incarcerated, or disciplined because of trouble following rules, and are much more likely than
other prisoners, for example, to be injured in a fight; and
WHEREAS, the advent of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and resulting County Care program along with State
Medicaid has given the County a tool to potentially change the makeup of the jail population, decrease the
burden on local taxpayers, and ensure that the most vulnerable patients have access to coordinated health-care
coverage; and
WHEREAS, at present up to 9,000 people who have been incarcerated at the County Jail have signed up for
health insurance under the Affordable Care Act; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Health and Hospitals System plays an important role in providing care for the
mentally ill at the jail by administering Cermak Hospital, but also can play an important role in the community at
large along with its network of health-care providers and community-based organizations to service the mentally
ill population in Cook County; and
WHEREAS, it is essential that this government understands the nature, scope and costs associated with the
mental health crisis facing our county in order to make informed decisions to better respond to said crisis while
making efficient use of our limited resources;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby request
a public hearing be held to bring together key stakeholders in order to fully understand the status of mental health
in Cook County and its associated costs.
Legislative History: 9/10/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Resolution be
recommended for receiving and filing. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Butler, Daley, García, Gorman, Moore,
Schneider, Sims and Steele (10)

Absent:

Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes, Silvestri and Tobolski (7)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

committee be

Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Butler, Daley, García, Gorman, Moore,
Schneider, Sims and Steele (10)

Absent:

Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes, Silvestri and Tobolski (7)

Page 3 of 4

 SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
File 14-5248…….………………………………………….……….Recommended for Receiving and Filing

Respectfully submitted,

_________________________________
Chairman

_________________________________
Secretary

*The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark Street,
Room 436, Chicago, IL 60602.
*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx

Page 4 of 4

 