Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, November 15, 2017

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-6190
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/11/2017
17-6160
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the special meeting held on 10/5/2017.

Page 1 of 3

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 15, 2017

17-6161
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 10/11/2017.
17-6162
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 10/24/2017.
17-4454
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PROCUREMENT CODE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 - Finance, Article
IV - Procurement Code, Division 2 - Procurement Procedures, Section 34-147 - Assessment Classes of
the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-147. - Disclosure of anticipated future costs/amendments

(a) Prior to approval of a Contract, the Chief Procurement Officer shall present to the Board all
reasonably anticipated future costs of the Contract. The Board may rescind any Contract that fails to
include all reasonably anticipated future costs at the time of Board consideration.
(b) The Chief Procurement Officer shall not approve any Amendment to any material term in the cost
or scope of a Contract that has been approved by the Board, provided such amendment extends the
Contract by more than one year, and further provided that the total cost of all such amendments increases
the amount of the Contract beyond the authority of the CPO granted in Section 34-123.
(c) The Board may rescind any Contract and/or Amendment that fails to include all reasonably
anticipated future costs at the time of Board consideration and/or amends any material term to the cost or
scope of a Contract that has been approved by the Board.

Page 2 of 3

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

November 15, 2017

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

7/19/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Commi

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Daley
Members:
Deer, Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims

Page 3 of 3

 