MEETING OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the May 28, 2015 Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest Preserve
District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein collectively referred to as the
“Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call at 9:30 a.m.
Investment Committee
in attendance:

1.

Mr. Patrick McFadden (Chairman), Mr. John Fitzgerald, Ms. Diahann
Goode, Ms. Alexis Herrera, Mr. Brent Lewandowski, Mr. Patrick Nester,
Mr. Samuel Richardson Jr. and Mr. Lawrence Wilson.

Staff Present:

N. Hackett, M. Maratea, F. Vinzons, K. Quaye and C. Hollins.

Others Present:

S. Haskins, J. Jackson, M. Joecken and J. McKee – Callan; T. Picketts –
Topeka; J. Parks – Loop Capital

Approval of March 11, 2015 Investment Committee Meeting Minutes;
Motion for Approval and Adoption of Minutes. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded
by Trustee Richardson that the minutes of the March 11, 2015 Investment Committee meeting be
approved and adopted.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2.

Administrative Updates;
Mr. Vinzons updated the Investment Committee on several manager and investment partnership
updates.
a) CBRE Strategic Partners U.S. Value 7 – Fundraising Term Extension Request
• CBRE requested an extension of fundraising through June to accommodate four additional
investors that may represent up to $180 million. Callan reviewed the request and
recommended approval of the extension as the prospects are limited, the amounts do not
bring them to their target and all other dates on the partnership and terms do not change.

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
33 N Dearborn St, Suite 1000   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 b) Evergreen IV – One Year Term Extension Request
• On March 12, 2015, the General Partners to Evergreen IV requested a final one year term
extension request until March 31, 2016 to maximize the return and enable the fund to
maintain board seats in its portfolio companies prior to anticipated liquidity. Mesirow
Financial Private Equity, as part of their legacy portfolio oversight, reviewed the request and
recommended that the Fund approve the request based on minimal fees (total of $100,000 for
the year) and focus on maximizing LP value.
c) Evergreen III – Two Year Escrow Account and Representation Agreement Request
• On April 30, 2015, the Evergreen III General Partners requested a two year extension to the
escrow account and the representation agreement of said escrow account on behalf of the
Fund. Mesirow Financial Private Equity, as part of their legacy portfolio oversight, reviewed
the request and recommended that the Fund approve the request based on maximizing LP
value.
d) Lombardia Capital Partners – Organizational and Management Ownership Update
• It was announced on April 1, 2015 that one of Lombardia’s three founding partners, Jorge
Castro, passed away. Previously, on March 6, 2015, it was announced that Mr. Castro
relinquished his large cap value duties but would remain as Executive Chairman of the Board.
As part of the transition, Lombardia agreed to purchase a portion of Mr. Castro’s ownership
held under a family trust to redistribute among existing partners.
Mr. Maratea also updated the Investment Committee that the Fund is in ongoing due diligence with
third parties about potential distributions related to class action lawsuits.
3.

Farmland Update;
Ms. Haskins updated the Investment Committee regarding discussions with the General Partner of
Cozad Premiere Partners II as the partnership nears its wind-up. It was concluded that the General
Partner’s latest proposal was unacceptable and that discussions held over the past few months had
reached an impasse. As next steps, the Investment Committee recommended to the Board that Fund
Investment Staff and Callan be authorized to instruct the General Partner to sell the assets held by the
partnership.
Motion for Execution of Recommendations made by Callan. It was moved by Trustee Herrera and
seconded by Trustee Richardson to recommend to the Board that Fund Staff and Callan 1) instruct the
General Partner to conduct a marketing process and sell the assets; 2) if possible, prohibit the use of
affiliated brokerage firm in the sale process; and 3) ensure that the General Partner’s fee is based on
realized proceeds.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 4.

First Quarter Performance Update;
Mr. Jackson and Mr. Joecken reviewed the first quarter 2015 performance for each fund as prepared
and presented by Callan. The Cook County Fund had a market value of $9.0 billion and the Forest
Preserve Fund had a market value of $203 million as of March 31, 2015. For the first quarter, both
funds outperformed their respective benchmarks with the Cook County Fund returning 2.81% (vs.
2.24% benchmark) and the Forest Preserve Fund returning 3.20% (vs. 2.43% benchmark). This
ranked the Cook County Fund in the 14th percentile for the quarter according to Callan’s Large
Public Fund Sponsor > $1B Universe and the Forest Preserve Fund in the 5th percentile for the
quarter according to Callan’s Mid-Sized Public Fund Sponsor Database.
Both funds’ domestic equity portfolios were the largest contributors to performance with Cook
County returning 2.80% (vs. 1.80% benchmark) and Forest Preserve 3.67% (vs. 2.21% benchmark)
for the first quarter. Domestic equity performance was driven by strong active management by the
Fund’s small/mid cap managers. Mr. Jackson noted that both funds’ international equity portfolios
also outperformed their respective benchmarks with Cook County returning 3.80% (vs. 3.59%
benchmark) and Forest Preserve 4.00% (vs. 3.59% benchmark) for the first quarter.
Within Cook County’s fixed income portfolio, all fixed income managers generated positive returns
for the quarter despite fixed income trailing the benchmark by 16 basis points. Exposure to
corporates contributed to performance while mortgage-backed securities detracted from performance.
Strong active management in core fixed income caused Forest Preserve to outperform its fixed
income benchmark 1.70% (vs 1.61%). In addition, both funds’ alternative investments contributed
positively to performance.
Additionally, Mr. Jackson highlighted that both the Cook County Fund and the Forest Preserve Fund
outperformed their respective benchmarks for the one-year, two-year, three-year and five-year periods
for the period ended March 31, 2015.

5.

Hedge Fund Asset Class Review;
Mr. McKee discussed the current economic environment for hedge funds and the impact to the
Fund’s hedge fund portfolio structure. Mr. McKee also covered hedge fund universe returns, peer
fund hedge fund allocations and historical risks and returns of hedge fund sub strategies as part of his
review with the committee. Then Mr. McKee advised the committee that the Fund’s current hedge
fund portfolio had performed well in recent periods against similar peer groups and the index.
Finally, Mr. McKee presented an investment outlook on the asset class wrapped up the discussion.

6.

Emerging Manager Utilization Update;
Mr. Quaye updated the Investment Committee of re-classifications to two of the Fund’s existing
emerging manager utilizations as a result of AUM changes. Mr. Quaye noted that the total Fund’s
emerging manager utilization stood at 17.5% as of March 31, 2015.

7.

Adjournment.
It was moved by Trustee Richardson and seconded by Trustee Goode that the meeting be adjourned.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 