REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS
April 22, 2002
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Hansen, Vice Chairman Lechowicz, Commissioners Collins, Daley, Moran,
Schumann, and Sutker (7)

Absent:

Commissioners Silvestri and Sims (2)

Also
Present:

Commissioners Butler and Quigley; Eugene Barnes, Barnes and AssociatesSpringfield lobbyist for the Cook County President; Steve Morrill, Morrill and
Associates- lobbyists for the Cook County Board; Deborah Stone, Director of
Intergovernmental Affairs- Cook County President’s Office; Terry Steczo, Director of
Intergovernmental Affairs-Cook County Assessor’s Office; Gary Rycyzyn, Director of
Elections and Mike Kreloff, Director of Policy and Communications-Clerk’s Office; and
Camella Gardner, Assistant State’s Attorney, Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County met pursuant to notice on Monday, April 22, 2002 at the hour of 11:00 AM in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
The Chairman called on the Board’s lobbyist in Springfield, Steve Morrill, who gave a brief status report
and answered questions on the following items.

242952

NORWOOD PARK STREET LIGHTING DISTRICT (APPOINTMENT). Transmitting a
Communication dated, April 17, 2001: from John H. Stroger, Jr., President, Cook
County Board of Commissioners:
I hereby appoint LOUIS H. PALLO to fill the vacancy at the Norwood Park Street
Lighting District for a term to begin immediately and expire May 4, 2004.
I submit this communication for your imformation approval.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Schumann, moved the approval of
Communication No. 242952. The motion carried.

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 22, 2002
PAGE 2
249592

JUSTICE WILLOW SPRINGS WATER COMMISSION (APPOINTMENT).
Transmitting a Communication from John H. Stroger, Jr., President, Cook County
Board of Commissioners:
I hereby appoint Mr. SEAN McDERMOTT to the Justice Willow Springs Water
Commission to fill the vacancy left by Mr. Ed King, for a term to begin immediately and
expire on April 1, 2002.
I submit this communication for your approval.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Schumann, moved to Receive and File
Communication No. 249592. The motion carried
Cook County Assessor
SB 1706 (Walsh T/Brosnahan) Amends the Freedom of Information Act. Changes the exemption from
the Act's inspection and copying requirements for computer graphic systems to an exemption for
computer geographic systems.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Schumann, moved to recommend support of
SB 1706. The motion carried.
Cook County Public Guardian
SB 1949 (Roskam/Hultgren) – Amends the Probate Act to provide that the court may discharge the
public guardian of a disabled adult under certain circumstances and transfer the guardianship to the
State guardian. Provides for court affidavits and reasonable fees.
Deborah Stone, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs stated the President’s opposition to SB 1949
because of possible fiscal constraints being placed on the county.
Vice Chairman Lechowicz asked if there are any federal lawsuits pending in connection with
overcrowding at the Department of Corrections.
Chairman Hansen responded that the Duran case is still pending in the federal courts. The chairman
further commented that SB 1949 may burden county taxpayers no matter how commendable the
project.
Commissioner Sutker, seconded by Commissioner Schumann moved to Receive and File SB
1949. The motion carried.
Cook County Sheriff
HB 1961 (Dart/Radogno) – Provides that the Sheriff, with the approval of the County Board, may
operate a residential and transition treatment program for women established by the Department of
Corrections.
Commissioner Daley requested a Roll Call vote to Receive and File HB 1961. The yeas and nays
being as follows:
Yeas: Chairman Hansen, Vice Chairman Lechowicz, Commissioners Daley and Schumann (4)
Nays: Commissioners Collins and Sutker (2)

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 22, 2002
PAGE 3

Absent: Commissioners Moran, Silvestri and Sims (3)
The Roll Call vote to Receive and File HB 1961 carried.
Cook County State’s Attorney
HB 5140 (Lyons-E/Radogno) – Provides that the Department of Public Aid shall delegate to the State’s
Attorney responsibility with respect to child support parentage establishment, support establishment,
medical support establishment, support modification, and support enforcement,. Authorizes the
Department of Public Aid to contract for management of child support services in counties where the
State’s Attorney is not operating such a program.
Chairman Hansen observed the county’s concern over the question of funding such a program.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Collins moved to Receive and File HB 5140.
The motion carried.
Cook County Treasurer
SB 1666 (Cullerton/Biggins) – Provides that when the county collector discovers that a tax sale should
not have occurred, he or she shall notify the tax purchaser or subsequent holder of a certificate of
purchase of intent to declare an administrative sale in error. Also provides for a registry of owners of
certificate of purchase to be maintained by the county clerk.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sutker moved to recommend support of
SB 1666. The motion carried.
SB 1668 (Cullerton/Hamos) – Provides that, in provisions requiring a person to deposit with the county
collector a letter of credit or other unconditional bond in an amount not less than 1.5 times the amount
of any tax or special assessment due upon property the person intends to purchase at a tax sale, that
in no event shall the letter of credit or other unconditional bond be in an amount less than $1,000.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sutker moved to recommend support of SB
1668. The motion carried.
SB 2074 (Viverito/Currie) – Provides that the clerk of the court may add a delinquency amount fee to
the unpaid fines and unpaid costs of conviction.
Commissioner Sutker, seconded by Commissioner Schumann moved to recommend support of
SB 2074. The motion carried.
Criminal Law and Court Administration
HB 3717 (Daniels/Dillard) and SB 2024 (Dillard/Daniels) – Permits the State Police to require the
submission of saliva or tissue specimens as well as blood specimens for analysis and categorizing into
genetic marker groupings.
Chairman Hansen asked under what circumstances would these bills apply?
Steve Morrill stated that they would apply following conviction.

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 22, 2002
PAGE 4
Commissioner Collins also raised the question of the constitutionality of the bills.
Chairman Hansen commented that any amendment should include the state’s responsibility for any
costs.
Commissioner Schumann, seconded by Commissioner Daley moved to recommend support of
HB 3717. The motion carried.
HB 4103 (Howard/DeLeo) – Creates an Ex-Offenders Employment Program through the Illinois
Department of Employment Security.
Commissioner Sutker, seconded by Commissioner Collins moved to recommend support of
HB 4103. The motion carried.
Elections
SB 1732 (Dudycz/Saviano) – Requires the State Board of Elections and the Secretary of State to post
certain voter registration information on their World Wide Web sites. Also provides that in Cook
County, in a political party with a State central committee elected during the spring primary (Alternative
A), a county central committee chairman taking office after the bill’s effective date need not be a
member of the committee.
Commissioner Sutker, seconded by Commissioner Collins moved to Receive and File SB 1732.
The motion carried.
Public Health
SB 1849 (Walsh-T/Saviano) – Shell bill for “Fairness in Health Care Services Contracting” concerning
contracts between health care providers and insurers. Draft versions of amendments to this legislation
have an estimated fiscal impact to the County of more than $20 million.
Commissioner Sutker, seconded by Commissioner Collins moved to Receive and File SB 1849.
The motion carried.
Home Rule Preemption
SB 2155 (Burzynski/Bost) – Exempts off-road riding facilities from criminal liability due to noise
emissions.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Schumann moved to recommend opposition
to SB 2155. The motion carried.
Quick-Take
SB 2294 (Klemm/Hannig) – Specifies various actions that must be completed before a unit of local
government may secure passage of quick-take authority from the General Assembly (similar to SB 550
and SR 41 from last year.)
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Schumann moved to Receive and File
SB 2294. The motion carried.

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 22, 2002
PAGE 5

Zoning and Building
HB 4023 (Slone/Rauschenberger) – Creates the Local Planning Technical Assistance Act to require the
Department of Commerce and Community Affairs to promote sensible planning and allows the
Department to make grants to counties and municipalities to implement sensible planning programs.
Chairman Hansen asked if the phrase “sensible planning programs” is defined in the bill?
Steve Morrill responded that the phrase is not defined in the bill.
Commissioner Schumann, seconded by Commissioner Daley moved to recommend support of
HB 4023. The motion carried.
HB 5647 (Lyons-E/McCarthy) – Amends the Election Code. In counties with less than 500,000
population, removes the authority to accept voter registration on the 28th day before the general
election if that 28th day is not designated for precinct registration. Effective immediately.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sutker moved to recommend support of
HB 5647. The motion carried.
HB 5646 (Lyons-E/McCarthy) – Authorizes election authorities to use in-precinct automatic vote
tabulating equipment. Establishes procedures for the use of that equipment. Requires that if the
equipment is used, a voter must insert the ballot into the equipment unless the voter is otherwise
entitled to assistance in marking his or her ballot. Requires that the equipment have voting defect
identification capability that returns to the voter a ballot with a voting defect. Defines a voting defect as
an over-voted ballot or a ballot that cannot be read by the automatic tabulating equipment. Effective
immediately.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sutker moved to recommend opposition to
HB 5646. The motion carried.
Commissioner Daley moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Vice Chairman Lechowicz.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation &
Intergovernmental Relations

____________________________
Carl R. Hansen, Chairman
Attest:
_________________________________
Sandra K. Williams, Secretary

 