Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Finance Committee

PUBLIC HEARING AND COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA
Tuesday, October 20, 2015

2:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at the
date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an
item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-5825
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board Of Commissioners that Chapter 21 - Fees, Sections
32-2 - 32- 14 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Section 32-2. Short Title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Responsible Business Act.”

 Section 32-3. Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where otherwise
specifically indicated.
(a) Person means a natural person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity and, in case
of an entity, includes any other entity which has a majority interest in such entity or effectively controls
such
other entity as well as the individual officers, directors and other persons in active control of the activities of such
entity.
(b) Employer means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited liability company, business
trust, or any person or group of persons acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an
employee, for which one or more persons are gainfully employed.
(c) Covered employee means any individual permitted to work by an employer in any occupation in Cook
County.
(d) Covered employer means (1) any employer, except for religious organizations or local governments, who
employs at least 750 employees in Cook County, or (2) any franchisor who employs at least 750 employees
Cook County or whose franchisees, collectively, employ at least 750 employees in Cook County.

in

(e) Franchise has the same meaning as provided in section 3 of the Franchise Disclosure Act of 1987, 815 ILCS
§705/3.
(f) Franchisor has the same meaning as provided in section 3 of the Franchise Disclosure Act of 1987, 815 ILCS
§705/3.
(g) Franchisee has the same meaning as provided in section 3 of the Franchise Disclosure Act of 1987, 815 ILCS
§705/3.
(h) Department shall mean the department or office that the President and Board of Commissioners shall create
and/or designate to enforce this ordinance.
(i) Full-time means 35 hours or more hours of work in each work week.
(j) Part-time means 1 to 34 hours of work in each work week.
Section 32-4. Wage Rate
(a) Wage rate shall be an hourly rate defined as follows:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

Starting December 1, 2015, $10.00
Starting December 1, 2016, $11.25
Starting December 1, 2017, $12.50
Starting December 1, 2018, $13.75

Page 2 of 6

 (5) Starting December 1, 2019, the wage rate shall be equal to Cook County Living Wage hourly
rate as defined under Section 34-160 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances and on
December 1 of each successive year, the wage rate shall increase consistent with and equal
to Cook County Living Wage hourly rate.
Section 32-5. Disclosure, Annual Fee, and Posting Requirement
(a) Every covered employer shall submit on or before February 1 of each year to the Department a sworn
statement containing the following:
(1) The total number of employees employed as of November 30 of the previous calendar year;
(2) The percentage of full-time employees and the percentage of part-time employees employed
in the previous calendar year, as a share of the total number of employees employed in the
previous calendar year. The breakdown of full-time and part-time employees shall be reported
by each quarter in the previous calendar year.
(3) The average hourly wage rate of full-time and part-time employees as of November 30 of the
previous calendar year. For any salaried employees, their hourly wage rate for purposes of
calculating the average hourly shall be their annual salary divided by the number of total hours
worked in the previous calendar year.
(4) The total number of employees, regardless of their full-time or part-time status, who are paid
less than the wage rate defined in Section 32-4 in the previous calendar year.
(b) At the time of submission of the sworn statement, every covered employer who paid more than 750
employees, regardless of full-time or part-time basis, less than the wage rate defined under Section 32-4 in
the
previous calendar year, shall pay, for each employee the covered employer paid wages less than the wage rate
defined under Section 32-4 in the previous calendar year, an annual fee of $750 for each dollar of difference
between the wage that the employer paid the employee in the previous calendar year and the wage rate defined
under Section 32-4, rounding this difference up to the next whole dollar if it is a rate of fifty cents or more over the
dollar and rounding down if it is 49 cents or lower.
(c) Any covered employer who directly, or through any officer, agent, employee or franchisee, makes any false
statement or representation on the sworn statement shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $1,000.
(d) Based on the sworn statement submitted by every covered employer, the Department shall issue a “Certificate
of Good Standing” to all covered employers who were not required to pay the annual fee as required under this
section. All covered employers who receive a Certificate of Good Standing are required to post this Certificate of
Good Standing in a conspicuous place visible by the public and places where notices to employees are customarily
placed. Each covered employer shall take steps to ensure that the Certificate is not altered, defaced, or covered by
other material.
(e) The Cook County Department of Revenue shall also post the list of covered employers who were issued
Certificate of Good Standing on the Cook County’s website to be made available to the public.
Page 3 of 6

the

 (f) The Cook County Department of Revenue shall prepare templates that comply with the requirements of this
section and such templates shall be made available to all employers within the boundaries of the Cook County.
Section 32-6. Recordkeeping.
Every covered employer shall keep accurate records of all pay and full-time or part-time status of their
employees for three years. All these records shall be kept in the English language and, at all times during
business hours, shall be subject to and available for inspection and copying by the Cook County Department of
Revenue.
Section 32-7. Prohibited Acts.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any covered employer to, directly, or through any officer, agent, employee or
franchisee, designate, classify or deem, or cause such covered employer’s franchisees to designate, classify
or
deem, an employee as an independent contractor or temporary employee, reduce an employee’s wages or hours of
work, or terminate an employee for the purpose of avoiding such covered employer’s obligations under this
Ordinance. Any action to classify or deem an employee as an independent contractor or temporary employee,
reduce an employee’s wages, work hours, or terminate an employee within sixty (60) days of November 30 of each
calendar year shall raise a rebuttable presumption that such action was taken to avoid such covered employer’s
obligations under this Ordinance.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any covered employer or any other person to threaten, penalize, punish, restrain,
coerce, attempt to coerce, or in any other manner discriminate or retaliate against any person for exercising rights
protected under this Ordinance. Rights protected under this Ordinance include, but are not limited to: the right to
file a complaint or inform any person about any party’s alleged noncompliance with this Ordinance; and the right
to inform any person of his or her potential rights under this Ordinance and to assist him or her in asserting such
rights. Protection of this section shall apply to any person who mistakenly, but in good faith, alleges violations of
any provision of this Ordinance. Taking adverse action against a person within ninety (90) days of such person’s
exercise of rights protected under this Ordinance shall raise a rebuttable presumption that such action was in
retaliation for the exercise of such rights.
Section 32-8. Enforcement and Penalty.
(a) Any person may file a complaint with Cook County Department of Revenue against any covered employer
who makes a false statement or representation on sworn statements as required under Section 32-5
or
who
otherwise violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with the requirements under any provision of
this Ordinance.
(b) The Department is authorized to take appropriate steps to enforce and coordinate enforcement of this
Ordinance, including the investigation of any possible violations of this Ordinance.
(c) After investigating a possible violation of this Ordinance, and providing any covered employer the
opportunity to respond to the allegations:
(1) If the Department determines that the covered employer violated the requirements under
Section 32-4, Cook County Department of Revenue shall assess and collect any fee due and
Page 4 of 6

 unpaid, together with an interest charge of 1.25 percent per month or fraction thereof. The
covered employer shall also pay a penalty of not less than $250.00 nor more than $1,000.
(2) If the Department determines that the covered employer violated any provision in Section
32-6, Cook County Department of Revenue may order any appropriate relief including, but not
limited to, requiring the covered employer to reclassify a person as an employee, restore work
hours, reinstatement, payment of lost wages to the employee, and the payment of an additional
sum as an administrative penalty that does not exceed the amount of the award of lost wages.
Section 32-9. License suspension and revocation
(1)Any license, permit, registration or franchise issued by the County may be suspended or revoked
by the issuing authority if it is determined after a hearing that the licensee, or any person
controlled by the licensee, has willfully failed to pay or remit any fee, interest or penalty due
under the requirements of this Ordinance. No license shall be suspended or revoked under this
subsection if, within ten days after the issuance of a license suspension or revocation order, the
total fee liability, including interest and penalties, is paid.
Section 32-10. Family Sustainability Commission
(a) Established: There is hereby established a Commission which shall be known as the Family
Sustainability Commission.
(b) Appointment of members: The Family Sustainability Commission shall consist of (9) members of
the Board President appoints as follows:
(1) One member to represent the President of the County Board;
(2) One member to represent the Cook County Board;
(3) One member to represent health care agency;
(4) One member to represent court system;
(5) One member to represent housing agency;
(4) Two members to represent nonprofit community based organizations;
(5) Two members to represent worker organizations.
(c) Powers and duties: The Family Sustainability Commission shall have the authority to advise the Cook
County Board of Commissioners on an annual basis in the appropriation of monies in the Fund to address issues
affecting residents in Cook County in the area of health care, pre-trial services, the criminal justice system,
housing assistance to low-income communities, grants to community-based organizations, to provide assistance to
low-income individual and families concerning family care assistance, heating assistance, nutrition assistance, job
training and placement assistance, and advocating for workers’ rights.
(d) Preference for employees of affected employers: In the provision of services, the Family Sustainability
Commission shall give preference to employees who meet the following conditions: they were employed in the
previous calendar year by an employer who is required to pay a fee by Section 32-5 Subsection (d); and they were
paid less than the wage rate defined under Section 32-4 in the previous calendar year by that employer.

Page 5 of 6

 Section 32-11. Family Sustainability Fund
Upon the passage of this Ordinance, the Comptroller shall create a special fund to be entitled the “Family
Sustainability Fund.” All annual fees collected pursuant to Section 32-5 of this Ordinance must be deposited
into the Family Sustainability Fund.
Section 32-12. Administrative rules and regulations.
The Department is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations and to administer and
enforce this Ordinance.
Section 32-13. Severability.
All portion of this Ordinance are severable, and if any of its provisions or any sentence, clause or paragraph shall
be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect ninety days after its enactment into law
Legislative History:
10/7/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Committee

____________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Daley
Sims
Committee of the Whole

Page 6 of 6

 