 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Finance Subcommittee on Labor

Tuesday, October 1, 2013 12:30 PM Cook County Building, Board Room 5 69,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 public testimony
will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language
when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or
failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person
from providing future testimony.

13-1639

Presented by: MAUREEN T. Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Metropolitan Alliance of Police
representing the Sheriff?s Telecommunications, Vehicle Service and Electronic Monitoring employees
for your consideration and approval.

Proposed Resolution

Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and

WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008 through
November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, has
been negotiated between the County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County and the Metropolitan Alliance of
Police representing the Sheriff?s Telecommunications, Vehicle Service and Electronic Monitoring
employees; and

WHEREAS, the general increases and wage adjustments have already been approved and are re?ected
in the Salary Schedule and are included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the
County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County and the Metropolitan Alliance of Police; and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook/ Sheriff of Cook

County and the Metropolitan Alliance of Police; as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Labor.

B. DeLeon, Secretary

   
 

- r3. .
.fMa?lcw

 

Chairman: Murphy
Vice-Chairman: Garcia
Members: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, Reyes, Sims

Cook County Page 2 of 2 Printed on 9/20/2013

