     
        

  
       
    

WW
mm 

i

   

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Real Estate Committee Report

Tuesday, February 18, 2014 9:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present: - Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Reyes,

Schneider,. Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (13)

Absent: - Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Collins and Tolbolski (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri to Defer
13REAL0002 to the end of the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: - Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (13)

Absent: - Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Collins and Tobolski (4)

13REAL0002

ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent, requesting authorization for the District to grant License
Number 1729 to the Village of Morton Grove (Village) for construction, operation and maintenance of a 12-inch
water main and a 20-inch water main through Miami Woods from Caldwell Avenue at Main Street to the St. Paul
Woods parking area. The area requested for the License is 0.976 acres. The Village indicates that 33 trees will be
removed and another 39 trees may be impacted by construction.

Reason: The Village operates and maintains existing 12-inch and 20-inch water mains at this location under
License 605 granted by the District in 1965. The existing water mains are deteriorated and need frequent repair.
Replacement of the water mains will reduce leakage onto District property and minimize future disruptions for
repair.

Legislative History: 7/16/13 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the
Real Estate Committee,

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this License
Request be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: - Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,

Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (13)

Absent: - Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Collins and Tobolski (4)

14-0024
EASEMENT REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the ?District?) to grant
permanent and temporary easements to the Illinois Department of Transportation at Algonquin Woods,
along the east side of Des Plaines River Road from Touhy Avenue to Oakton Avenue for 0.031 acre or 1,350
square feet of permanent easement and 0.056 acre or 2,439 square feet of temporary easement.

Reason: The permanent easement is for construction and maintenance of drainage structures. The temporary
easement is for re-grading and reconstruction of driveway entrances. IDOT states that the existing road is severely
deteriorated and the project will improve safety and capacity. In addition, raising the road pro?le will reduce
?ooding on the road and adjacent properties.

The area for the permanent easement is 0.056 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are expected to be removed for
this project.

Easement Fee: $5,900.00

Tree Mitigation Fee: None

Concurrence(s): The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Of?cer have approved this item.
District(s): 17

Legislative History: 1/4/ 14 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the Real
Estate Committee,

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to accept the
substitution for File Id 14-0024. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: - Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (13)
Page 2 of 5

Absent: - Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Collins and Tobolski (4)

SUBSTISTUTE FOR FILE ID 14-0024

EASEMENT REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the ?District?) to grant
permanent and temporary easements to the Illinois Department of Transportation at Algonquin Woods,
along the east side of Des Plaines River Road from Touhy Avenue to Oakton Avenue for 0.031 acre or 1,350 
square feet of permanent easement and 0.056 acre or 2?,439 square feet of temporary easement.

Reason: The permanent easement is for construction and maintenance of drainage structures. The temporary

easement is for re?grading and control on an existing swale. IDOT

states that the existing road is severely deteriorated and the project will improve safety and capacity. In addition,
raising the road pro?le will reduce ?ooding on the road and adjacent properties.

 

The area for the permanent easement is 0.056 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are expected to be removed for
this project.

Easement Fee: $5,900.00

Tree Mitigation Fee: 

Concurrence(s):

The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Of?cer have approved this item.
District(s): 17

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Easement
Request File Id 14-0024 be adopted as amended by substitution. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: - Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (l3)

Absent: - Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Collins and Tobolski (4)
14-0032
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?The District?), as Licensor
to grant a License the Village of Elmwood Park (?the Village?), Licensee, to locate, operate and maintain a storm
sewer outfall structure to the Des Plaines River, a ?oodwall along Thatcher Avenue, and a ?oodgate at the
entrance to Evans Field as part of a Flood Mitigation Project to reduce ?ooding of Thatcher Avenue and adjacent
neighborhoods. The project will separate the storm water from an existing combined sewer and eliminate the
potential for combined sewage to enter District property. The ?oodwall will allow Thatcher Avenue to remain
open during ?ood events. In addition, the ?oodgate will automatically close the entrance to Evans Field during
?ood events. The Village states that the ?ood stage and duration will not increase due to the ?oodwall.

Page 3 of 5

The proposed license also is contingent upon the Village?s agreement to acquire (at their appraised value) two
small parcels owned by the District that already have been deemed surplus property by the District, thereby
relieving the District of the responsibility and expense for maintaining the same.

Term: Continuous

License Fee: $11,477.27

License Application Fee: $500.00

YELAR Fee: $3,300.00

Total one-time upfront fee of $15,277.27 for the term of the License
(See. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)

Tree Mitigation Fee: $13,281.09
The area of the License is: 0.174 acre

Concurrences: The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Of?cer have approved this item. Grantee has met the
insurance requirements under the License Agreement.

District(s): 9
Legislative History: 1/ 14/ 14 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the

Real Estate Committee:

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this License
Request be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: - Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Reyes,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Suffredin (13)

Absent: - Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Collins and Tobolski (4)
ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Daley moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Vice-Chairman Gorman The motion
carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Page 4 of 5

SECTION 2

YOUR CONIMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN

 

 

FILE ID 13REAL0002 Recommended for Approval
FILE ID 14-0024 Recommended for Approval as
Amended by Substitution
FILE ID 14-0032 Recommended for Approval
Respectfully submitted,

M2 
Vig Chairman 1? cretary

Page 5 of 5

