PRELIMINARILY ADOPTED MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
February 26, 2019
The meeting was called to order at 10:05 a.m. Chair Stroger asked for an attendance roll
call. Those members present at the Chicago location were Miguel Del Valle, Scott
Gryder, Rose Joshua, Kathy Kane-Willis, a representative for Stanley Moore’s office,
Griselda Vega Samuel, and Chair Stroger. Those members present at the Springfield
location were Michael Inman and Ryan Spain. Those members present by phone were
Karen Eng, Alex Esparza, and Leon Rockingham.
Due to the lack of quorum, the minutes from previous meetings failed to be adopted.
Chair Stroger asked for an update on the Census Grant from Ms. Shari Brticevich, SOS’s
Grant Coordinator. Below are the updates:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

As the date of this meeting, JCAR has approved the bifurcated rules;
The final bifurcated rules are posted on the CCC website;
The Census RFP will be reposted on the CCC and SOS websites on February 27,
2019, or soon thereafter;
Once reposted, there will be a March 13th (or shortly thereafter) return date (so
all applicants will be given a 2 week period to submit responses);
The SOS is expecting that approximately 30 days after the receipt of proposals
will final decisions be made – so hopefully final decisions will be by April 13th (or
shortly thereafter);
There is a tight timeframe for submissions, but the nature of the grant has not
changed since it was first developed and discussed; and
One grant review committee will separately review the submissions for both
grants (census and immigration)(they will independently review, grade separately,
with no communication between members of the grant review committee).

Member Griselda Vega Samuel asked for clarity on what changes were made to the rules
prior to being submitted to JCAR. Ms. Brticevich explained that the rules governing the 2
grants were separated out from each other – the census grant and the immigration grant.
It was also clarified in the rules what constituted “community providers” and “hard to
find/count” communities. Ms. Brticevich is expecting that the SOS will award funding
for the 2 grants on or about June 30th 2019. There is a 2 year period for the awardees to
accomplish their goals for the grants.
Member Griselda Vega Samuel further asked what was the target audience for a “hard to
count” neighborhood, given that some communities (such as homelessness) are not tied
to a specific neighborhood – will those audiences be able to apply for the grants. Ms.
Brticevich explained that any business authorized to do business in Illinois can apply for
the grants. She continued by stating that the submissions would be graded on how they
can define and accomplish their goals – not based on a certain geographic area. She
further stated that those that apply should focus on their target audience and need.
Ms. Brticevich also stated that the 2 grants are separate - and that one entity can apply to
the separate RFPs (if desired) individually – one submission for the immigrant grant and
1

 one submission for the census grant. Ms. Brticevich said that the grant review committee
is looking for fair equitable distribution across the state – the goal would be to provide
statewide services as best as possible even though it’s hard to predict if the SOS would
receive a proposal for every community.
Lastly, Ms. Brticevich was asked about the benefits to partnering with other entities in
order to apply for the grants. She stated “no” – that there are no benefit(s) or
disadvantage(s) to partnership, as the goal is to reach the entire state. Those who partner
will be asked, amongst other things, to explain their partnership, to identify their
audience, and to identify how best they will serve their audience. Ms. Brticevich stated
that she will be available to provide assistance to those applying for the grants, but she
cannot provide information that is not given to the general public. Ms. Brticevich’s
contact information will be provided in the posted RFP.
Ellisa Johnson, U.S. Census Bureau - Chicago Reg. Office, provided an update to the
CCC regarding her office and federal initiatives, stating:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Her office has made several hires since her last visit to the CCC;
They have focused on recruiting staff/specialists that can really relate to the
hard to count communities;
Hired staff specifically to work at the grass root level with hard to count
communities;
Hired staff to work with community based organizations; service
organizations; schools; ethnic communities, etc.;
Hired staff to work with both local state government(s) – and especially to
form strategic partnerships;
They have an updated list of Complete Count Committees;
Staff is working diligently across the state to provide CCC trainings (which
will be interactive);
They are still recruiting to hire by June 2019;
They are working on the current census messaging – and the promotional
materials will be in digital format;
Census Headquarters will have a national census event on 4/1(she is hoping to
have the census logo and slogan by then);
National Partnership team is looking to get involved with McDonalds,
Walgreens, etc.;
National Library Association is seeking access to library resources, programs,
etc.; and
Postcards, letters, etc., will be distributed to residents to inform them on when
and how to respond to the census.

There were questions on whether the Illinois Census RFP would be similar to Forefront’s
RFP for certain grants for t-shits, paper, etc., The answer to this question was “no” that
the census grant would not award for items such as t-shirts, paper, etc. There was also a
question as to whether those who applied for the census grant had to have the 501(c)(3)
status. The answer to this was “no” that the census RFP did not require that all applicants
have the 501(c)(3) status.
2

 Next, questions regarding the citizenship question were answered. Ellisa Johnson stated
that there was very limited information out in the public regarding the citizenship
question. She stated that she would get the CCC some talking points regarding the
citizenship question, just in case members are public speaking about the census. Member
Griselda Vega Samuel stated that the Brennan Center for Justice is a good resource
regarding the citizenship question, and the same has online updates regarding the various
census lawsuits.
Chair Stroger noted that Rep. Thapedi was unable to attend the CCC meeting, as he was
included on the Agenda to speak about HB 928. She also noted that there are currently 5
legislative bills filed that deal with the 2020 Census, the bill numbers are: HB 928, SB
1600, SB 1621, SB 2053, and SB 1408.
As an overview, HB 928 changes some appointments to the CCC, instead of the
appointments being made by the Governor, House Speaker, and the Senate President. It
seeks to make the census a non-partisan issue, as HB 928 clarifies this intention to reflect
a bipartisan manner. HB 928 also calls for a grant committee, and said bill is formed
from a replica of California.
There was a question as to whether the proposals would fall under the jurisdiction of
GATA (Grant Accountability & Transparency Act). The answer was that all agencies
under the IL Governor are required to adhere to GATA requirements. The SOS is not an
agency under the Governor’s Office; however, the SOS will recognize the same
requirements although the SOS is not required to.
Rep. Spain discussed that he would convene certain legislators in various caucuses in
order to determine how to move forward given the concerns and numerous census bills
filed. It was also questioned as to whether the CCC can provide an advisory
recommendation on which census bill to move forward on, given the various concerns.
Chair Stroger then touched on the CCCs Business Subcommittee, in that partnerships
should start forming with the business community. She stated that said subcommittee is
looking for more membership since Emily Burke is no longer an elected official and
involved with the CCC. Rose Joshua stated that she is interested in being on the Business
Subcommittee. Chair Stroger also stated that the SOS is almost finished with translating
the brochures for the subcommittees – that information is forthcoming.
Lastly, Chair Stroger pushed the CCC social media @ILcensus2020. She stated that we
need to get followers on instagram and twitter. Becky Lang, an SOS social media
representative, stated that everyone should be sure to use the hash tag
#MakeIllinoisCount in order to bring awareness to the work that the IL CCC is doing
surrounding the 2020 census. #MakeIllinoisCount would help the CCC communicate
with the public.
It was asked if the CCC had any resources to pay for a social media expert. It was urged
that the CCC needed someone specific to handle social media. Chair Stroger stated that
the SOS did not specifically ask for this as a line item in the first prepared report to the
3

 General Assembly. Chair Stroger also stated that we are looking for Commission
Members to help push for an appropriation from the legislature.
Chair Stroger then opened the floor to public comments and questions. There was no
public comment offered. Rose Joshua stated that she really enjoyed being present at the
meeting. Chair Stroger stated that the next CCC meeting will be held on March 26th (and
that it is scheduled every 4th Tuesday of the month).
The meeting adjourned at 11:46 a.m.

4

 