Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, May 22, 2019

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen
19-3576
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 04/24/2019
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to approve 19-3576.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

19-3558
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal
of Proceedings of the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 4/24/2019.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend for
approval 19-3558. The motion carried by the following vote:

 Rules and Administration Committee
Ayes:

Committee Minutes

May 22, 2019

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

19-3559
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal
of Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 4/25/2019.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend for
approval 19-3559. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

19-2992
Presented by: EDWARD H. OLIVIERI, Director, Office of Contract Compliance
PROPOSED CHANGES TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Department: Office of Contract Compliance
Summary: Amends Section VIII Paragraph K of the Minority, Women and Veteran/Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned
Business Enterprise Program Rules and Regulations to allow State of Illinois Veteran-Owned Small Business and ServiceDisabled Veteran-Owned Small Business certification to be accepted for purposes of proof of VBE or SDVBE status by
firms participating or seeking to participate on County contracts unless the firm has been denied by Cook County, provided
that the firm submits a Size Standard Affidavit that demonstrates compliance with the requirements of the County Code.
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend for
receiving and filing 19-2992. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

Page 2 of 6

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

May 22, 2019

19-3144
Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, KEVIN B. MORRISON, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET DEGNEN,
BRIDGET GAINER, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, PETER N. SILVESTRI, LARRY
SUFFREDIN and SCOTT R. BRITTON, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANACE AMENDMENT
TIME REQUIIREMENT FOR NOTICE OF MEETINGS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION, ARTICLE
III COUNTY BOARD, Sec. 2-105. - PRIOR NOTICE TO PUBLIC FOR MEETINGS OF THE BOARD, ITS
COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Section 2-105. - - Prior notice to public for meetings of the Board, its Committees and Subcommittee.

(a) Minimum time requirement for notice of meeting. No less than 72 hours four (4) business days before
any meeting, not including Special Board or Emergency meetings, notice and an agenda for

such meeting shall be provided by the Clerk for meetings of the Board or the Secretary for meetings of a
Committee or Subcommittee.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/25/19 - Board of Commissioner - refer to the Rule and Administration
Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to accept as
substituted 19-3144. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
19-3144

Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, KEVIN B. MORRISON, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET DEGNEN,
BRIDGET GAINER, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, PETER N. SILVESTRI, LARRY
SUFFREDIN and SCOTT R. BRITTON, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE - ITEM 19-3144
(Cook County Rules Committee 05/22/2019)
TIME REQUIIREMENT FOR NOTICE OF MEETINGS
Page 3 of 6

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

May 22, 2019

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS, Sec.
1-3 Definitions and Rules of Construction, of the Cook County Code; and Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATION, ARTICLE

II COUNTY BOARD, Sec. 2-15 - PRIOR NOTICE TO PUBLIC FOR MEETINGS OF THE BOARD,
ITS COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES of the Cook
County Code are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions and rules of construction.
Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, the following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this Code:
Board or County Board. The term "Board" or "County Board" means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois.

Business Day. The term “Business day” means Monday through Friday, excluding official County Holidays.

Circuit Court. The term "Circuit Court" means the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois.
Clerk. The term "Clerk" means the County Clerk.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, Cook County, Illinois, Code, as designated in Section
1-1.
Computation of time. Except as expressly provided to the contrary, the time within which any act provided
by law is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day is
Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute or County ordinance now or hereafter in force
in this State, in which case it shall be excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday, Sunday or holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items,
conditions, provisions or events are connected by conjunction "and," "or" or "either...or," the conjunction shall
be interpreted as follows:
(1) "And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2) "Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)

"Either ... or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in
combination.
County. The term "County" means Cook County, Illinois.
Delegation of authority. A provision that authorizes or requires a County officer or County employee
to perform an act or make a decision authorizes such officer or employee to act or make a decision through
subordinates.
Department. The term "Department" means a department which is a part of the government of the County
of Cook, Illinois, and shall include an agency which is a part of the government of the County of Cook, Illinois.
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
ILCS, Ill. Admin. Code. U.S.C., CFR. The abbreviation "ILCS" refers to the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended. The abbreviation "Ill. Admin. Code" refers to the Illinois Administrative Code, as amended. The
abbreviation "U.S.C." refers to the United States Code, as amended. The abbreviation "CFR" refers to the Code
of Federal Regulations, as amended.
Includes, including. The terms "includes" and "including" shall mean "including, but not limited to," and
the use of the terms does not create a presumption that components not expressed are excluded.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect.

Page 4 of 6

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

May 22, 2019

Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Words importing the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things
and words importing the plural number may include the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or part of such property.
Person. The term "person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any
other legal entity.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means any property other than real property.
Premises. The term "premises," as applied to real property, includes land and structures.
President. The "President" means the President of the Cook County Board.
Professional and managerial services. The term "professional and managerial services" means a contract
that falls under the budgetary accounting codes of 260 - Professional and Managerial Services, 261 - Legal Fees
Regarding Labor Matters, 262 - Legal Fees in Connection with Issuance of Tax Notes, 263 - Legal Fees, or 272 Medical Consultation Services.
Property. The term "property" means real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Regulation. The term "regulation," when used in the context of a regulation issued by a County department, shall
refer to requirements imposed upon some or all members of the public in connection with the implementation of
ordinances. A regulation is issued pursuant to a delegation of authority to a department within a County ordinance.

Rule. The term "rule," when used in the context of the rules of a County department, shall refer to statements
of policy or practice which are to be followed by the public or by persons employed within the department in
conducting business with or within the offices of the issuing County agency or official.
Secretary. The term "Secretary" means the Secretary to the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
State. The term "State" means the State of Illinois.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts and all other public ways in the County and shall include all areas thereof embraced between property
lines and dedicated to the public use.
Swear. The term "swear" includes the term "affirm."
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," as applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding
a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, either alone or with others.

Week. The term "week" means a period of seven consecutive days.
Written. The term "written" includes any form of words, letters, symbols or figures.
Year. The term "year" means a period of 12 consecutive months.

***
Section 2-105. - - Prior notice to public for meetings of the Board, its Committees and Subcommittees
(a) Minimum time requirement for notice of meeting. No less that 72 hours four (4) business
days before any meeting, not including Special Board or Emergency meetings, notice and an
agenda for such meeting shall be provided by the Clerk for meetings of the Board or the
Secretary for meetings of a Committee or Subcommittee.

***

Page 5 of 6

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

May 22, 2019

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/25/19 - Board of Commissioner - refer to the Rule and Administration
Committee

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Daley, to recommend for
approval as substituted 19-3144. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Daley, to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 6 of 6

 