PRELIMINARILY ADOPTED MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
January 22, 2019
The meeting was called to order at 10:08 a.m. Those members present at the Chicago location
were Miguel del Valle, Scott Gryder, Kathie Kane-Willis, Theresa Mah, Griselda Vega Samuel,
and Chair Stroger. Those member present at the Springfield location were Jackie Petty. Those
members present by phone were Eira Corral Sepulveda, Karen Eng, Michael Inman, Rose
Joshua, Warren Callahan for Stanley Moore and Kristy Stephenson.
There was no quorum present but the membership preliminarily adopted the minutes from the
November 2018 meeting so they could be posted to the website.
Chair Stroger reported the receipt of a resignation letter received from Emily Burke. Ms. Burke
indicated she was no longer serving as an elected official and since this is a requirement to serve
on the Commission she was resigning. Her resignation was effective immediately. Chair
Stroger indicated Ms. Burke was appointed to the Commission by the Governor’s Office and a
copy of her resignation letter would be forwarded to the Governor indicating his need to appoint
a replacement.
Chair Stroger indicated there had been no feedback from the General Assembly to the Interim
Report filed in 2018 concerning the work of the Commission. She indicated the next report was
due in April but the Secretary of State’s Office is hoping to have that date moved to later in the
year so the report can more accurately reflect the Commission’s efforts.
Chair Stroger indicated that all the subcommittee chairs should continue to work in developing
strategies and outreach methods as this will be very important to census participation.
Ms. Shari Brticevich, grant coordinator for the Secretary of State’s Office, spoke to the
Commission to update them on the status of the proposed administrative rules regarding the grant
outlined in the FY 2019 budget passed by the General Assembly. Ms. Brticevich indicated that
the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules (JCAR) met the week prior and asked the Secretary
of State’s Office for a 45-day extension for further consideration of the amended rules. Ms.
Brticevich indicated the Secretary of State’s Office agreed to the extension request by JCAR for
fear the alternative would have been JCAR’s rejection of the amended rules.
Commission Member Vega Samuel asked for a copy of the revised proposed rules and Chair
Stroger indicated a copy would be provided to her and all the members of the Commission via
email. The email from the Chair was to be sent as soon as possible.
There was discussion among the members about the timelines for grant administration and
distribution. A question was asked about why the extension was requested. Ms. Brticevich
indicated that the office was not privy to the reason JCAR asked for the extension.
Due to a technical difficulty with the call-in number and passcode for the Commission meeting
several Commission members joined the meeting on the phone at this time. Chair Stroger
updated those members on the phone as to what had transpired in the meeting prior to their
participation.

 Commission Member Joshua (on the phone) asked about the second grant for $2.5 million
contained in the Fiscal Year 2019 budget. Chair Stroger indicated that this grant was not a part
of the Commission’s jurisdiction. Ms. Brticevich explained that the same administrative rules
would govern both grants but the grants themselves are for separate issues. Irene Lyons, counsel
to the Commission and General Counsel for the Secretary of State, indicated there is interest by
some JCAR members to bifurcate the proposed rules because of the separate missions of the two
grants but she had no further information on that issue.
Commission Member Kathie Kane Willis asked about the timeframe for awards and distribution
of the census grant money. Ms. Brticevich indicated it would be an expedited period for
acceptance of proposals and announcement of awards. The estimated time was six weeks. Ms.
Kane Willis inquired about the time frame to spend the grant money. Ms. Brticevich indicated
the money did not have to spent prior to July 1, 2019. She indicated statute requires awarding
the money prior to that date but expenditures can go beyond July 1, 2019.
Members of the Commission inquired about contacting JCAR to express their support and/or
concern about the extension request. Chair Stroger indicated the members and organizations
were free to contact JCAR individually. A question was raised about sending a letter from the
full Commission to JCAR. Chair Stroger indicated a letter from the entire Commission would
require a vote and, lacking a quorum, the issue could not be voted on at this meeting.
Commission Member Joshua questioned the lack of a quorum and Chair Stroger explained that
the Illinois Open Meetings Act statute does not allow Commission members calling in by phone
to be counted towards a quorum. Commission member Joshua indicated she had someone
attending in person at the Chicago location. Chair Stroger indicated that the statute establishing
the Commission did not contain language allowing for proxy voting. General Counsel Lyons
indicated the language of the Open Meetings Act would be sent to the Commission members so
they could review the language on quorums. Chair Stroger also indicated a copy of the JCAR
membership list would be sent to all Commission members if anyone wanted to write to the
JCAR membership individually.
During the discussion concerning quorums for the Commission meetings, a member of the
general public spoke up from the Springfield location. The individual had been added to the
meeting notification list at the request of another Commission member. This individual
indicated she thought she was a member of the Commission and questioned why she was getting
meeting notices if she was not a Commission member. Mary Riseling, of the Secretary of State’s
Office, indicated she was placed on the meeting notice list at the request of another Commission
member but she was not a voting member of the Commission. The individual inquired how she
could be appointed to the Commission. Ms. Riseling indicated the qualifying criteria and
indicated she would send the statutory language to the individual about membership and
qualifications. Ms. Riseling indicated there were two vacancies on the Commission at the
present time and both were appointments that must be filled by the Governor. She further
indicated the individual must hold an elected office in order to qualify for an appointment.
Chair Stroger told the Commission members that starting with today’s meeting, the Census
Bureau’s Chicago Regional Office would have a standing spot at the monthly Commission
meetings to brief the Commission members on Census Bureau efforts. She further indicated that
no one from the Census Bureau was in attendance today which may be due to the federal

 government shutdown. Chair Stroger indicated she would be in touch with them about future
meetings.
Joe Natale, of the Illinois State Library, addressed the Commission members about the proposed
poster contest and provided the membership with proposed rules for the event. Commission
members made suggestions which were incorporated. Mr. Natale indicated the Illinois State
Library would handle the outreach and entry submissions of the poster contest and would work
through the libraries for distribution, including the Chicago Public Library. Commission
members will judge the entries and there will be winners in each division. Mr. Natale indicated
that outreach on the poster contest efforts will include that messaging to the hard-to-count
communities is a priority.
Mr. Natale also indicated the Illinois Library Association had a conference coming up in October
of 2019 and he was working with them to get a spot on the agenda concerning the work of the
Commission and the importance of libraries to census participation.
Mary Riseling, of the Secretary of State’s Office, indicated to the Commission that the brochures
published in 2018 upon approval of the Commission, were currently being translated into
Spanish, French, Hindi, Chinese and Polish. She further indicated that at the present time there
was no operational money available to print the brochures and make them available to the public
other than via the website.
Chair Stroger asked the Commission members who were present whether the monthly meeting
schedule, occurring on the 4th Tuesday of each month, was still agreeable with the Commission
members. She indicated there had been some concern from a Commission member that the
current monthly meeting schedule conflicted with another professional obligation. Warren
Callahan, with Commission Member Stanley Moore’s office, indicated he would check with
Commissioner Moore to see if there were other dates that were preferable and would be in touch
with Chair Stroger. No other members indicated they had a conflict with the current monthly
meeting schedule.
There was an inquiry from a Commission member regarding the positions of Executive Director
and Assistant Director for the Commission as outlined in the enabling statute. Because there has
been no operational appropriation made for the Commission, Chair Stroger indicated that the
Commission would have to continue to operate without an Executive Director or Assistant
Director. Chair Stroger reminded the Commission members that the Interim Report submitting
to the General Assembly in 2018 requested operational money for the hiring of individuals for
these positions but no response from the General Assembly had been forthcoming as of this
meeting. Commission Member Vega Samuel suggested that the Commission continue to move
forward with developing a job description for the position(s) so if operational money becomes
available the Commission would be in a position to start recruitment. Mary Riseling, of the
Secretary of State’s Office, indicated she would develop a job description for the Executive
Director and make it available to the Commission members prior to the next monthly meeting so
it could be discussed at that time
The meeting adjourned at 11:24 a.m.

 