PRELIMINARILY ADOPTED MINUTES FROM
COMPLETE COUNT COMMISSION MEETING
March 26, 2019
The meeting was called to order at 10:02 a.m. Chair Stroger asked for an attendance roll call.
Those members present at the Chicago location were Miguel Del Valle, Leon Rockingham,
Griselda Vega Samuel and Chair Stroger. Those members present at the Springfield location
were Theresa Mah, Jackie Petty and Sue Rezin. Those members present by phone were Eira
Corral Sepulveda, Alex Esparza, Scott Gryder, Michael Inman, Rose Joshua and Evelyn
Rodriguez. A representative for Stanley Moore’s office also joined the meeting by phone.
Due to the lack of quorum, the minutes from previous meetings were not formally adopted.
Sharon Brticevich, grant coordinator for the Secretary of State, provided an update on the status
of the $1.5 million census grant RFP. Ms. Brticevich revealed that 44 applications were received
requesting approximately $14.2 million. She indicated the grants are currently under review and
she hoped the grant awards would be announced by the end of April. She added that it may take
longer than the 30 days indicated at the February meeting due to the number of applications, but
she would keep the Commission Chair apprised.
Commission Member Rockingham inquired about the status of the grant applications from
Forefront. Ms. Brticevich indicated these grants were not under the purview of the Commission
or the Secretary of State’s Office.
Ellisa Johnson, with the U.S. Census Bureau’s Chicago Regional Office, spoke to the
Commission members via phone. She informed the Commission about a webinar for media
being held on April 3, 2019 in New York from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The
subject of the webinar is the upcoming paid media campaign for the 2020 Census. The webinar
is being conducted by Young and Rubicam, the organization on contract with the U.S. Census
Bureau and in charge of media outreach for the 2020 Census. A press release had been sent out
to approximately 2,500 partners inviting them to participate in the webinar. Ms. Johnson
indicated they are particularly interested in involving smaller media organizations with ties to
ethnic communities. She said the webinar will not be for large media outlets such as ABC or
Telemundo and she asked the Commission members to provide her with any thoughts they might
have on organizations who should be invited. She informed the Commission members that
organizations who want to participate in the webinar must be registered prior to the date of the
event, but the webinar would be recorded and available for organizations unable to participate
on April 3. Ms. Johnson indicated the 2010 Census campaign excluded smaller ethnic media
outlets and the Bureau is making a stronger effort for the 2020 Census. Ms. Johnson indicated
the RFP application process for the media campaign would start on April 3, 2019 and close on
May 17, 2019 and there would be no extensions or exceptions for applicants. She said they are
particularly interested in small media markets including small newspapers that reach audiences
speaking languages other than English. Ms. Johnson informed the members of the Commission
to contact her if they wanted to participate in the April 3rd event.
Commission member Vega Samuel gave an update on the Hard To Count Subcommittee. She
indicated the group met the week prior and they had a Train The Trainer program ongoing. She
indicated Commission Member Kane Willis was looking for materials for the program and they
1

 were considering holding a webinar to help with the program. The next scheduled meeting of
the Subcommittee is May 2nd and a call-in option will be available. Commission Member Vega
Samuel indicated they would share additional event dates with the Commission as they become
available.
Commission Member Joshua, who was joining the meeting by phone, inquired as to whether the
minutes had been adopted from the previous Commission meeting. The Chair informed her
there was not a quorum present to formally adopt the minutes. Commission Member Joshua also
inquired as to whether subcommittee reports were given orally or if the reports were submitted in
writing. Chair Stroger indicated the monthly reports from the Subcommittee Chairs were given
orally.
Commission Member Vega Samuel inquired about the status of legislation pending before the
Illinois General Assembly. Chair Stroger indicated there are currently five pieces of legislation
being considered. Commission Member Vega Samuel asked that an update of the legislation be
sent to the members and Chair Stroger indicated she would make it available.
Joe Natale gave a report to the Commission on the State Library’s efforts. He indicated he was
attending the Forefront census event on April 3rd in Springfield. He also indicated the State
Library is working with libraries across the state to provide Census awareness messages on their
websites. He informed the Commission the poster contest was moving forward and had been
made available to all the schools via a mailing. He also indicated the Secretary of State had
partnered with the Illinois State Board of Education to send an email to schools encouraging
them to participate. Mr. Natale indicated the State Library was currently working on a letter
from Secretary of State White to all state libraries encouraging their assistance during the 2020
Census, particularly assistance to non-library members who wish to utilize a library’s internet
service to answer the Census questionnaire.
Commission Member Mah provided an update of the Education Subcommittee and indicated she
intends to call a meeting of the subcommittee in April. She also advised the Commission she
was filing a resolution with the General Assembly recognizing the one-year observance of the
2020 Census on April 1, 2019. She indicated she would try and pass the resolution on April 3,
2019 when Forefront is in Springfield for their census event. Commission Member Rezin
indicated she would like to co-sponsor the resolution with her.
Chair Stroger updated the Commission on legislation pending before the Illinois General
Assembly, particularly Senate Bill 1621 which transfers the Complete Count Commission from
the Secretary of State’s Office to the Office of the Lieutenant Governor. Chair Stroger advised
the Commission members that, historically, this group had always been created and housed
under the Office of the Governor but in 2017, the Illinois General Assembly asked the Secretary
of State’s Office to take on the responsibilities. She further indicated it was always the intent of
the Secretary of State’s Office to pass the Commission back to the Office of the Governor or to
an agency under the Governor’s jurisdiction. Chair Stroger indicated conversations had already
taken place with the Lieutenant Governor’s Office and she is willing and excited to take on the
responsibility if the legislation passes.
Commission Member Rodriguez announced she was joining the Commission meeting by phone
due to the long lines at security at the building where the Commission meeting was being held.
2

 Commission Member del Valle expressed concern as to whether the Lieutenant Governor’s
Office had enough staff available to take on these new responsibilities. Chair Stroger advised the
Commission members that the Secretary of State’s Office would continue to be involved in the
Complete Count Commission, including assisting as requested on certain projects and the
legislation currently under consideration created a 23rd seat on the Commission, which would be
for Secretary of State White or his designee.
Commission Member del Valle also inquired about the lack of language in all the pending
legislation for an appropriation for the Commission to hire an Executive Director and Assistant
Director and expressed concern at the lack of coordination among the sponsors of the legislation.
He inquired about the status of the legislation making appropriations for 2020 Census outreach.
The Commission was informed there are currently five bills pending concerning the operation of
the Commission or appropriations for 2020 Census outreach. These bills are HB 928 sponsored
by Representative Andre Thapedi, Senate Bill 1408 sponsored by Senator Martinez, Senate Bill
1600 sponsored by Senator Sims, Senate Bill 1621 sponsored by Senator Emil Jones and Senate
Bill 2053 sponsored by Senator Lightford.
Commission Member Corral Sepulveda requested an update be sent to members concerning the
status of all the legislation.
Commission Member del Valle inquired as to whether there was anyone working on the
appropriation language with the General Assembly leadership. Chair Stroger indicated the
Secretary of State’s Legislative Director was working with them on the issue and indicated it will
most likely be part of a final budget package passed by the General Assembly at the end of May
and that the Secretary’s Office nor the Commission would get any information about the final
appropriation amount until the General Assembly announces a budget deal. Commission
Member del Valle, once again, indicated the importance of having operational money for the
Commission as part of the appropriation deal. It was pointed out that Senate Bill 2053 reflects
the Commission’s request contained in the Interim report filed with the General Assembly in
October 2018, including operational money for the Commission.
Evelyn Rodriguez gave the Commission an update for the City of Chicago. She indicated the
Mayor’s Complete Count Commission would be announced before May. She said it was the
intent that the leaders of the Chicago Complete Count Commission to carry the torch and have
parameters set in place for the new administration. She indicated the city planned to hold their
first meeting the first week of April. She hoped the group would be able to meet 1-2 times
before May 20, the day that the new administration would take office. She anticipates the
Chicago Commission will ask for a resolution with the City Council requesting money for the
city’s Commission work, both operationally and for outreach.
The meeting was adjourned at 10:53 a.m.

3

 