Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
May 9, 2018 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm
I. Introductions
MPAC members present:
Co-Chair Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Co-Chair Adam Becker, Consortium to Lower Obesity in
Chicago Children (CLOCC)
AARP – Terri Worman
Access Living – Mary Rosenberg
Active Transportation Alliance –Julia Gerasimenko
CMAP – John O’Neal
CLOCC –Eric Goodwin
Department of Public Health – Margarita Reina

Lurie Children’s Hospital – Dr. Karen Sheehan
Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities (MOPD) –
Laurie Dittman
Metropolitan Planning Council – Audrey Wennink
Chicago Dept. of Transportation: Lauren Crabtree, Eric
Hanss,
Others present:Trina Grieshaber, Debbie Liu, Allan
Mellis, Courtney Kashima, Robert Schultz, Franklin
Young, Stacey Meekins, Katie Witherspoon, Romina
Castillo

II. Approval of Minutes - The February, 2018 MPAC minutes were approved.
III. Pedestrian Crash/Fatality Update
a. There were 18 pedestrian fatalities in 2018 up to date. Nine of these fatalities took place in April.
b. 10 of these fatalities happened in Vision Zero High Crash Areas or High Crash Corridors.
c. The increasing number of crashes in April reflects an alarming trend.
IV. Vision Zero Update
a. A new Vision Zero team lead by Sam Schwartz will coordinate citywide efforts.
b. The City is in the process of hiring a new Vision Zero coordinator.
c. Vision Zero West Side will host a Summer Event Series with more details to come.
d. The Steering Committee met in April to continue pushing forward implementation strategies.
e. Downtown Task Force will roll out early this summer.
f. Vision Zero South Side outreach will most likely begin in the fall. The VZ team is trying to secure more funding.
V. Non-Governmental Partners Discussion Update
a. MPAC Non-Governmental Partners (CLOCC, Lurie Children’s IPRC, Active Transportation Alliance, and AARP)
met on April 23 to discuss strategies their organizations could commit to pushing forward pedestrian/walkability
initiatives and to support Vision Zero.
b. Five broad goals and three strategies to achieve those goals were identified by partners.
c. Partners agreed to continue this conversation and to convene in between MPAC meetings.
6. Walkability Assessment in Chinatown
a. The Coalition for a Better Chinese American Community partnered with CLOCC to conduct walkability
assessments in Chinatown in 2017. A new report with their findings was released early this year.
b. The Assessment evaluated 34 intersections and 51 blocks at three different time periods.
c. 100 community members participated
d. A list of recommendations was made in three main buckets: infrastructure improvements, amenities improvements
and Educational campaigns.
e. The full plan can be found at cbcacchicago.org
7. Public Comment
a. Access Living has received concerned calls about the lack of accessible parking at Foster Beach
8. Adjournment

 