Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Adam Becker, CLOCC

Date:

August 8, 2018

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Time:

MPAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Terri Worman

AARP

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Adam Becker

CLOCC

Dr. Karen Sheehan

Lurie Children’s Hospital

Kyle Whithead

Active Transportation Alliance

Laurie Dittman

Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities

John O’Neal

CMAP

Ben Helphand

NeighborSpace

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT

Susan Crotty

National Safey Council

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:35 by Chair Scheinfeld
May MPAC meeting minutes approved

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Pedestrian Crash Fatality Update –

Chair Scheinfeld

a) No July data available yet. b) The increasing number of crashes in April reflect an alarming trend, of the
24 victims, 11 where killed in high crash areas. c) We continue seeing drivers speeding, loosing control and
crashing with pedestrians on the sidewalk
Visio Zero Update –

Sean Wiedel

a)This June marks the one year anniversary of the realase of the Action Plan. b) Release of the new e-crash
in the City data portal. c) Three events will take place in the West Side in parternship with community
organizations. d) The High Crash Corridor Framework Plan was released in June e) New data partnership
with Arity, a subsidiary of Allstate was established to help CDOT develop predictive crash technology f)
Downtown Task Force has convened and is being chaired by Ald. Reilly g) Launched a train the trainer
program
Pedestrian Infrastruture Update –

David Smith

a) 300 intersections have been improved using safety measures to impact pedestrian safety. b) The City has
been able to leverage existing resources through resurfacing program c) In 2018 over half of the
improvements took place in high crash corridors d) The Streets for cycling program is incorporating
pedestrian improvements like curb extensions and pedestrian bump outs. e) Aiming to lower the speed limit
along 11 miles of neighborhood greenways. f) CDOT is currently creating profiles for each High Crash
corridor
Safe Routes to School Update –
a) MPAC signed a letter addressed to IDOT last year and as a result, there is now a call for proposal for
SRTS projects. b) Many community stakeholders have expressed interest in walkability related initiatives c)
Belmont Cragin will begin a walkability initiative in the upcoming months.

Adam Becker

 Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Elevated Chicago –

Rosa Ortiz

a) Elevated Chicago looks to address community investment through a lense of equity by looking at policies
and removing barries to impact the greater system b) It is a collaboration with 16 organizations. c) 7 train
stations have been identified as priority sites d) Thi is a nation-wide initiative where multi-sectoral partners
convene e) The main goal is to reduce barriers for equitable community development f) Elevated has
granted resources to activate spaces and engage residents through their capacity building and collaboration
grants g) Elevated has been working with MapCorps, the analyzed date collection will be ready shortly,
Margarita can provide further information.
Englewood Nature Line –
a)Multi-departamental collaboration in the City. b) The trail will connect 4 communities by a loop. c)
Currently undergoing Phase 1= trail design. d) 54% of the land along the trail is vacant e) Main objectives of
this project: community investment, transportation improvements, recreation and exercise opportunities to
build a healthy lifestyle, increase safety in the community. f) This projects aims to transform Englewood into
a destination community g) The structure of the trail is safe but still needs some reinforcement. h) To
schedule tours, contact Micheal.

Micheal NewmanBrooks

Actions

Lead

Schedule an MPAC tour of the Englewood Nature Trail

Romina Castillo

Public Comment
Alan Mellis– A suggestion is to take similar projects to the ones installed on Milwaukee Ave to be implemented on Lincoln Ave and
Halstead.
Margarita Reina – It would be worth it to analyze more crash data at the beat level to look at smaller geographies and really zoom into
granular information that could be relevant to improve safety.

Adjournment at 4:30

 