LEGAL COMMITTEE MINUTES
of the
Firemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
20 S Clark, Ste 1400, Chicago IL 60603
August 3, 2018
The Legal Committee of the Firemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago held a meeting on
June 6, 2018 in the office of the Fund. Present at the meeting were Legal Chairman Anthony
Martin and Committee members Thomas Cody and Dan Fortuna. Also present were Fund Attorney
Sarah Boeckman, Fund Staff Steve Swanson and Lori Lund and Fund Consultant Kenneth
Kaczmarz.
No public comment was requested by any members of the public.
The Committee requested an update on the 6-165 issue and the recent meeting held with the City to
discuss this issue. Ms. Boeckman advised the Committee on the supportive documents and
legislative history that had been shared with the City and that the Fund’s counsel was working on
the complaint.
The Committee reviewed the following policies:
Board Member Conference and Seminar Attendance and Travel Expense
Procurement Policy for Investment Consultants and Advisors
Military Service Policy
The Committee reviewed the following procedural rules:
Procedure Rules for Administrative Hearings (no changes, new formatting)
Procedural Rules for QILDRO Orders (no changes, new formatting)
Procedural Rules for Determining Impact of Felony Conviction on Member
Draft Trustee Manual
The Committee directed Fund Counsel to provide a final review and revision of all policies and
procedures presented and bring a final version to the Board at their August 15, 2018 meeting for
adoption.
Cathy Rowe, the Fund’s Heath Insurance Consultant was present to review the Fund’s current plan
for employee and retiree healthcare. Ms. Rowe provided a brief history of the current plan and the
law changes which have affected the limitations in making changes to the current plan as well as a
cost analysis of rates for both grandfathered and metallic plans.
Cost saving options were discussed and the Committee requested that Ms. Rowe put together a
proposal of cost saving options to change the plan within the parameters of keeping grandfathered
status.
The Committee requested a Legal Committee meeting for September 11, 2018 to revisit the
healthcare issue.
There being no further business, the Committee adjourned.

 