Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Adam Becker, CLOCC

Date:

February 20, 2019

Time:

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

MPAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Laurie Dittman

Mayor’s Office for People with
Disabilities

Ben Helphan

NeighborSpace

Terri Worman

AARP

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Luann Hamilton

CDOT

David Smith

CDOT

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT

Sean Wiedel

CDOT

Jennifer Herd

CDPH

Julia Gerasimenko

Active Transportation Alliance

Adam Becker

CLOCC

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:10 pm by Chair Scheinfeld
November MPAC meeting minutes approved.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Pedestrian Crash Fatality Update –

Chair Scheinfeld

a) We have two confirmed fatalities so far this year. b) 2018 fatalities trended similar to 2012-2016 average,
except for April 2018 when 8 pedestrians were killed. c) The Department’s priority is to continue investing in
High Crash Corridors d) Majority of victims are hit by larger vehicles. d) Most of the drivers involved in
crashes were 50 years old or younger, while the majority of victims are older Chicagoans ( >50years old).
City Updates a)

Vision Zero - Currently restructuring the Vision Zero organizations. The team has a new project lead:
Sarah Powers. The Downtown Task Force has one last meeting to review recommendations. Both
the West Side Plan and Annual Report will be released in March. World Day of Remembrance was a
success and the City is looking forward to make it a yearly event.

b)

Accessible Pedestrian Signal Installation (APS) - APS communicates information about the ‘Walk’
and ‘Don’t Walk’ pedestrian intervals in a non-visual format. Currently 11 intersections have APS.
The latest installation took place on Roscoe, the following will be installed on Stony Island Avenue
and Ashland Avenue. Installation for APS in the Loop is targeted for 2020. All full signal
modernization include APS.

c)

Capital Projects- CDOT’s goal is to update 300 intersections by 2020, by the end of last year, 175
were completed. ADA upgrades will continue this year. The Snow Removal Task Force is composed
of several City departments to coordinate efforts and resolve snow removal issues city-wide.

Discussion on MPAC Changes –
This was an initial conversation to identify the direction of the Council and improvements to be made in 2019:
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)

Council’s leadership structure: the Commissioner should remain as co-chair. One or two
community/non-governmental partners should serve as co-chair(s). –
Membership: the council should strive to have representation from different regions of the City as
well as different professional sectors.
Expectations, responsibilities and role descriptions for members will be drafted moving forward.
Site visits or meetings outside City Hall will be scheduled in between quarterly MPAC meetings.
Community Areas could be highlighted in each meeting to allow for a more organic agenda.

Sean Wiedel

Luann Hamilton

David Smith

Adam Becker

 Mayor’s Pedestrian Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Agena submissions for next meetinga) Updates on trails developments and maintenance across the city.
b) Include issues or conversations that might have come up at MBAC.
c) Updates on mobility innovation and shared mobility.
d) Provide a list of highlights about pedestrian-focused projects and initiatives that can be shared with
communities.

Adam Becker

Actions

Lead

Public Comment
How can more members of the public learn about this committee? – It would be helpful if the council has channels to better inform the
public about the efforts of this group.
Could MPAC publish an annual report?
Is MPAC providing updates and information to Aldermen?

Adjournment at 4:30 pm

 