HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: April 9, 2019
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Tuesday, April 16, 2019 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950 W. Polk Street, Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chair Richardson-Lowry

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:10

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting
of February 19, 2019

9:10-9:10/Chair Richardson-Lowry

B. Any items listed under Sections III and VI
IV.

*Report from Chief Human Resources Officer

V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Nursing

VI.

9:10-9:35/Barbara Pryor

9:35-10:15/ Beena Peters, DNP, RN

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and

* Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section VI.

 AGENDA
Tuesday, April 16, 2019 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

VI. Closed Meeting Items (continued)
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VII. Adjourn
Committee Members:
Chair:
Richardson-Lowry
Members:
Board Chair Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Driscoll, Prendergast and Thomas

 