Best Practice

Performance
Improvement

Performance improvement seems simple at first: identify a problem, then take
steps to solve it. But organizations often tell us their change initiatives struggle to
get off the ground. We’ve reviewed years of Advisory Board research to understand
why improvement projects typically fail—and to identify the eight steps crucial to
any successful change initiative. A summary of our findings is below.

—the Advisory Board Way
PITFALL 1: Lack

of Leadership Attention

By far the biggest barrier to successful performance improvement is inadequate oversight
and accountability. Staff and physicians lack time to focus on anything beyond their daily
responsibilities, while those pushing for change lack political capital to make the initiative
a higher priority. As a result, the change initiative never truly gets the attention it needs.

1

Aggressively

Prioritize Opportunities
•  To avoid overtaxing resources, pursue only the most
valuable performance improvement projects
•  Articulate clear criteria for chosen improvement initiatives

Secure

Dedicated Leadership

2

•  For every project, enlist support from an executive sponsor
who can ensure the work gets adequate attention, clear
other barriers

TIP FOR SUCCESS

•  Give project leaders enough time to focus on the initiative, even
if doing so requires job re-scoping or additional resources

PITFALL 2: Poor

When seeking an executive sponsor, don’t limit your search to those with an
official leadership role. Sponsors need not have a formal leadership title as long
as they have sufficient political capital to overcome cultural or resource barriers
to change. Think of the word “executive” as more symbolic than literal.

Work Planning

Even with dedicated leadership, projects may fail because they are inadequately
scoped and managed. Improvement efforts target areas that have no real impact
on the problem, performance goals are unreasonable, and meetings occur too
infrequently for real action.

3

Identify True

Root Causes
•  Systematically assess how current processes fall short of
best practice before creating new protocols

Commit to

Workplan and Goals

4

•  Select measurable, realistic metrics to define success
for the change initiative

TIP FOR SUCCESS

Root cause analysis often yields multiple solutions to a performance problem.
Consider prioritizing some easy wins up front to gain momentum and saving
more challenging changes until later in the initiative, when infrastructure and
credibility have been established.

•  Establish—and adhere to—a formal workplan to guide
project from start to finish

PITFALL 3: Rocky

•  Conduct formal root cause analysis to determine what
process gaps warrant the most attention

Rollout

While planning and preparation are the hardest parts of performance improvement,
organizations can’t forget the implementation stage either. Even the best-planned change
initiative will meet with resistance (and potential demise) if stakeholders are leery of new
processes and protocols.

5

Effectively

Communicate the Change
•  Incorporate communication planning into every change
initiative, no matter how small

Stage a

Smart Rollout

6

•  Decide between simultaneous rollout to all stakeholders
versus a phased pilot

TIP FOR SUCCESS

While communication about change initiatives is essential, be careful not to
overwhelm clinicians and staff who are already inundated with information.
Create a “communication hierarchy” to ensure that only the most important
information is communicated through “push” channels such as email or the
EMR. Reserve details for “passive” channels such as an intranet page or posters.

•  If piloting, select early-stage sites strategically to generate
early wins, ameliorate concerns about change

PITFALL 4: Insufficient

•  Use both mass and individual communication to explain
rationale for change, highlight benefits, and neutralize negativity

Follow-Up

Finally, organizations must not assume the work stops with implementation.
Without structures in place to monitor ongoing performance, measure success,
and identify future improvement needs, the initiative will ultimately fail to have its
desired impact on outcomes.

7

Hold All Stakeholders

Accountable

•  Develop accountability measures for stakeholders from the
executive suite to the front lines—even those whose impact
on outcomes is only indirect

Adjust
as Needed
•  After initial rollout of new processes and protocols,
continue to monitor performance data at regular intervals
•  Establish mechanisms to collect stakeholder suggestions
for additional improvements

•  Use a mix of informal mechanisms (e.g., data sharing) and, if
needed, more formal measures (e.g., financial incentives) to
maintain performance growth over the long term

8
TIP FOR SUCCESS

Consider holding stakeholders responsible for group as well as individual
performance, which fosters a powerful sense of shared accountability and allows
the organization to recognize the contribution of individuals whose impact on
outcomes is real but indirect.

Read the full briefing for detailed guidance
on performance improvement:
advisory.com/8steps4change
©2016 Advisory Board • All Rights Reserved • 32066

 