JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
COOK COUNTY HEALTH
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
May 31, 2019
Employee Recognition
For the past 18 months, the Cook County Health dialysis unit has had zero vascular access infections. Despite very high
volumes with a large number of high-risk patients, the staff was able to exceed the national benchmark. Congratulations
to the CCH dialysis staff Tavia Davis, Sinumon George, Annette Glenn, Elliot Isewede, Beena Jayamon, Kyung Sook Lee,
Diane Mensah, Justin Robinson, Kimberly Rodriquez, Eva Sacharczuk, Senu Thomas and infection control nurse Onofre
Donceras on this accomplishment by providing the safest and best possible care to patients.
Earlier this month, CCH celebrated Nurses Week by recognizing outstanding nurses and ancillary staff at its annual
Clinical Excellence Award Ceremony. Their hard work and commitment to caring for patients across the health system is
a testament to the mission of CCH. Nurses are the backbone of any health care organization. Congratulations to: Jisha
Abraham, Thressia Alexander, Norma Amaya, Celia DeVeyra, Margareth Douyon-Webb, Emma Edwards, Ruby
Flordeliza, Elizabeth Giron, Kandice Hightower, Marcelo Ma Nieves, Sharon Scott-Reed and Cristina Teruel.
CCH placed first and third in the poster presentations at the inaugural National Collaborative for Education to Address
the Social Determinants of Health conference this month. Dr. Melissa Palma, a CCH physician at the Logan Square
Health Center, came in 3rd for the Applying a Model of Culturally-Adapted Motivational Interviewing to the South Asian
Healthy Lifestyle Intervention study. Christine Haley, Director of Housing for CCH, won first place for Housing is Health:
Chicago and Cook County Flexible Housing Pool.
Activities and Announcements


On May 29th, Dr. Shannon and Jarrod Johnson, COO for Central Campus, hosted a breakfast the Chicago Health
Executives Forum. Dr. Shannon presented an overview of the health system to approximately 30 C-suite CHEF
members who also had an opportunity to tour the new Professional Building.



Cook County Health (CCH) has revised its Workplace Violence
policy that addresses the management of disruptive and abusive
patients, staff and visitors. In addition to setting the expectation
that staff will treat one another, as well as patients and visitors,
with dignity and respect, the policy emphasizes de-escalation
techniques when facing a disruptive or abusive patient or visitor;
requires all staff to complete annual training; and establishes
reporting requirements and the engagement of social workers and
requires reporting to CCH police, facility security and/or local law
enforcement in the event of any threat of violence. Posted notices
will be going up throughout the system indicating that verbal
aggression will not be tolerated and that physical aggression will be
prosecuted.

 

On May 23, 2019, the Intensive Care Unit at Provident Hospital reopened as part of the longer term plan to
deliver needed services and begin accepting ambulance runs later this year. Provident Hospital sees
approximately 30,000 ‘walk-in’ emergency room patients annually despite discontinuing ambulance service in
2011. At the same time, the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) was closed.
IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.2



Cook County Health has launched the second phase of its marketing campaign to build the brand and reputation
of the organization. The tagline, Making
an Impact, allows CCH to highlight
patient care, social determinants of
health, research and more. The
campaign includes outdoor, transit and
digital marketing and will run in phases
over the next several months. The
current phase focuses on CCH’s work to
address the opioid crisis.
IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.4



CCH hosted its second Research & Innovation Summit titled Housing is Health on May 22, 2019. The afternoon
included several presentations from CCH leaders, a health provider panel, a policy panel as well as remarks from
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle. The highlight was the story told by Aloyce Hill, a CCH patient who
has benefitted from our programs. The white paper developed for the event is attached.
IMPACT Objective 6.3



On May 2nd, Cook County Health participated in the Chicago Healthcare System Coalition for Preparedness &
Response (CHSCPR) Annual Full-Scale Exercise. This year's scenario encompassed impacts and considerations
associated with a multi-hospital evacuation triggered by an imminent threat. All CCH facilities participated in the
drill. The Hospital Incident Command System was activated for the duration of the drill. The simulation identified a
number of strengths in our internal capacity as well as several opportunities for additional planning and
preparation including the transportation 2011of patients from one hospital to another, the proper handling of the
transfer of critically ill patients, and planning around emergency credentialing to ensure proper staffing.
IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.1

Food As Medicine Update


Through May 16, CCH’s Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has resulted
in 183 visits to 13 CCH health centers – Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove,
Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins, and Woodlawn.
Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 23,844
individuals, representing 79,103 household members, totaling more than 495,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health
center visit.



The CCH Fresh Market schedule is listed below.
o Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm
o Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm
o Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm
2 P a g e

 Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food
system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with
Experimental Station’s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP users with a match on all purchases at
CCH Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week.


Three CCH health centers will host Summer Meals during the months when school is not in session. Children 18
years and younger can get free, health meals at the following CCH health centers:
o Cottage Grove Health Center
Monday-Friday, 12pm-1:15pm
June 10 through August 23 (closed June 7, July 4-5, August 2)
o

Englewood Health Center
Monday-Friday, 11am-12:30pm
June 25 through August 30 (closed July 4)

o

Robbins Health Center
Monday-Friday, 11:30am-12pm
June 24 through August 30 (closed July 4)

Children are not required to be a current patient of CCH to access Summer Meals.
IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

3 P a g e

 Legislative Update


State


At the May 23rd Cook County Board meeting President Preckwinkle and the Cook County Board sponsored a
resolution urging the Illinois General Assembly to support HB 2495, the Reproductive Health Act.

More than 7,000 bills and resolutions have been filed this session in the House and Senate. The House and
Senate have hours remaining before the end of the spring legislative session (May 31). The deadline for passing
most state legislation by a simple majority, including a budget, is midnight on May 31. Bills that do not meet this
deadline will require a 3/5th majority to pass.



On April 29, the Senate held a joint committee hearing of the Appropriations II – Subcommittee on Capital and
the Transportation – Subcommittee on Capital. This was the sixth statewide hearing on capital that the
committees convened. Cook County CFO Ammar Rizki presented on the County’s non-transportation related
requests, including CCH’s $50M request to support the modernization of five community health centers (Cottage
Grove, Englewood, Near South, Robbins, Prieto). Iliana Mora, CCH’s COO for Ambulatory Services attended the
hearing and shared written testimony with Senators and their staff. The last time Illinois passed a
comprehensive capital program that includes transportation and non-transportation funding was in 2009.



On May 17, Governor Pritzker announced “Rebuild Illinois”, a comprehensive statewide capital plan that
includes horizontal projects (roads, bridges, etc.) as well as vertical projects (schools, health care facilities, public
buildings, etc.). The plan would be paid for through a combination of bonding and new/increased taxes and fees.
Included in the plan is $440M for health care and human services projects including:
o $175M for affordable housing
o $50M for community health centers
o $200M for hospital and health center transformation
o $15M for human services grant programs



Following passage by the Senate in April, the House this week approved SJRCA1, which proposes to amend the
state constitution to allow for a graduated-income tax rate, instead of the current flax tax rate. The question will
now be placed on the November 2020 ballot for voter approval, which requires 60% of the “yes” votes OR a
simple majority of “yes” votes among all ballots cast.
Changing the state income tax structure from a flat tax to a graduated system is a major priority of the Pritzker
administration.



HA1 to SB1321 passed the House unanimously 116-0-0 on May 30th. The bill will help address challenges with
the state’s eligibility system and resulting delays in processing Medicaid applications and redeterminations. The
bill also seeks to improve the relationship between providers and Medicaid MCOs by requiring HFS to establish a
claims dispute resolution process, establishing policies and timelines for MCOs to update provider rosters, and
ensuring stakeholder engagement in efforts to improve MCO operations and further develop value-based
payment models.
CCH reviewed and provided input towards the Medicaid omnibus bill from its perspective as a health care
provider and a Medicaid managed care plan.



SB1739 was approved in the House by a vote of 116-0-0 and awaits concurrence by the Senate. The bill includes
language that no longer allows facility closures to be eligible for the CON exemption process, and instead
requires a permit for discontinuation from the IHFSRB. The bill also sets forth requirements for notification to
the public and elected officials about the proposed closure. This legislation was initiated by legislators as a result
of concerns with the regulatory approval process related to the proposed closure of Westlake Hospital.
4 P a g e

 

Earlier this week, the House passed SB25, the Reproductive Health Act (RHA), by a vote of 64-50-4. The RHA
affirms individuals’ rights to make autonomous decisions about using or refusing reproductive health care and
ensures that abortion is not treated differently than other forms of medical care. The bill now awaits a Senate
concurrence vote. The RHA would take effect upon being signed into law.

Federal
 After a two-week Easter/Passover recess, Congress returned to Washington with a packed health policy agenda
for the month of May. While a deal to lift the statutory budget caps under the Budget Control Act of 2011
remained elusive, House appropriators moved ahead with their FY 2020 appropriations bills. Meanwhile the
committees of jurisdiction continued bi-partisan work on measures to reign in prescription drug prices.
Budget and Appropriations
 On May 21, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) hosted Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) for negotiations
on the budget caps with the White House, represented by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Acting Chief of
Staff Mick Mulvaney. After huddling behind closed doors for most of the day they were unable to achieve a final
deal, although they reported that they were close to an agreement, which would lift the caps on defense and
domestic discretionary spending as well as potentially raise the debt ceiling.
The absence of an overarching budget deal has not stopped the House Appropriations Committee from readying
eight of the twelve annual appropriations bills for FY 2020, including the Labor-HHS-Education bill, which funds
the agencies in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
o The bill includes a total of $8.3 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which is
$921 million above the 2019 enacted level and $1.7 billion above the President’s budget request. (Note
that this includes $854 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health Fund, amounting to
over ten percent of the agencies appropriation.)
o The bill would give the CDC and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) $25 million each to conduct
research into firearm injury and mortality prevention.
o The bill funds the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) at $5.9 billion,
which is $115 million above the 2019 enacted level and $179 million above the President’s budget
request.
o The bill includes $7.6 billion for the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), which is $475
million above the 2019 enacted level and $1.5 billion above the President’s budget request. This
includes increases for HRSA’s Community Health Center program and the Ryan White HIV/AIDS
programs as part of the President’s initiative to reduce new HIV infections by 90 percent in ten years.
The Senate is expected to begin working on appropriations in June, but leadership is wary of starting the process
without an agreement on the top-line numbers. The leaders of both parties in both chambers want to make a
deal and avoid another government shutdown, just as the 2020 election season is beginning to heat up.
Medicaid
 In late April and early May, Representatives Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.) and Pet Olson (R-Texas) circulated a “Dear
Colleague” letter Speaker Pelosi and Minority Leader McCarthy to move legislation that would delay the
scheduled $12 billion in cuts to Medicaid DSH over the next two years. 302 members of the House signed the
letter, including every member of Illinois’ Cook County delegation. We will continue collaborate with efforts like
this, to keep the issue front and center in Congress.
Of note for Medicaid policy, senior level turnover continues at CMS, with Chris Traylor, the director of the
Centers for Medicaid and CHIP Services (CMCS) announcing his departure at the end of May. Traylor had only
been in the position since January.
5 P a g e

 Affordable Care Act and Prescription Drug Pricing
 On May 16, the House passed H.R. 986, the Strengthening Health Care and Lowering Prescription Drug Costs Act.
The bill included bi-partisan measures which were reported out by the Judiciary Committee, designed to get
generic drugs to market faster and inhibit anticompetitive practices on the part of the drug companies. It also
included provisions by Democrats designed to shore up the Affordable Care Act, including:
o H.R. 1385, which would provide funding for states to establish their own individual and small group
marketplaces instead of using the Federal Marketplace.
o H.R. 1386, which would provide $100 million for Federal health navigators that provide assistance to
consumers in purchasing health insurance plans on the Federal Marketplace.
o H.R. 1010, which would prohibit the sale of short-term limited duration health insurance plans, which
are often limited in scope since they are not required to meet the minimum coverage requirements
prescribed in the ACA.
o H.R. 987, which would require HHS to conduct outreach and educational activities to promote health
insurance on the Federal Marketplace.
The House adopted several amendments during floor consideration, including two that would prohibit HHS
from:
o Prohibiting “silver loading,” a mechanism for insurers to load their full premium increases to certain
mid-level (i.e., silver) plans to draw down larger Federal premium subsidies to offset the
Administration’s elimination of other cost-sharing subsidies.
o Ending auto enrollment when a marketplace consumer takes no action during open enrollment.
All House Democrats present voted for the bill along with five Republicans. The rest of the Republican members
voted no, arguing that the ACA provisions were poison pills that prevented them from supporting legislation
which included bi-partisan generic drug provisions they helped to craft. The measure will not be taken up by the
Senate because of the ACA provisions. The upper chamber is continuing to work toward bi-partisan drug pricing
legislation of its own.
House leaders have indicated that in the late summer or fall a larger drug pricing bill, including authorizing
Medicare to negotiate prices directly with the drug manufacturers, could move forward. This could be the
vehicle for advancing a number of “must pass” health care provisions, including a delay of the scheduled
Medicaid DSH cuts.


Earlier this month the Administration announced an expanded “conscience rule” to protect health care
workers who oppose abortion, sterilization, assisted suicide and other medical procedures on religious or
moral grounds. Health care institutions that fail to adhere to the new rule risk the loss of federal funds.
Last week, Cook County joined the state of Illinois, the city of Chicago and other states and jurisdictions
across the country in a federal lawsuit challenging the expanded right of conscience rule.

Budget and Appropriations
 On May 21, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) hosted Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) for negotiations
on the budget caps with the White House, represented by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Acting Chief of
Staff Mick Mulvaney. After huddling behind closed doors for most of the day they were unable to achieve a final
deal, although they reported that they were close to an agreement, which would lift the caps on defense and
domestic discretionary spending as well as potentially raise the debt ceiling.
The absence of an overarching budget deal has not stopped the House Appropriations Committee from readying
eight of the twelve annual appropriations bills for FY 2020, including the Labor-HHS-Education bill, which funds
the agencies in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
6 P a g e

 





The bill includes a total of $8.3 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which is
$921 million above the 2019 enacted level and $1.7 billion above the President’s budget request. (Note that
this includes $854 million in transfers from the Prevention and Public Health Fund, amounting to over ten
percent of the agencies appropriation.)
The bill would give the CDC and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) $25 million each to conduct research
into firearm injury and mortality prevention.
The bill funds the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) at $5.9 billion,
which is $115 million above the 2019 enacted level and $179 million above the President’s budget request.
The bill includes $7.6 billion for the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), which is $475
million above the 2019 enacted level and $1.5 billion above the President’s budget request. This includes
increases for HRSA’s Community Health Center program and the Ryan White HIV/AIDS programs as part of
the President’s initiative to reduce new HIV infections by 90 percent in ten years.

The Senate is expected to begin working on appropriations in June, but leadership is wary of starting the process
without an agreement on the top-line numbers. The leaders of both parties in both chambers want to make a
deal and avoid another government shutdown, just as the 2020 election season is beginning to heat up.
Medicaid
 In late April and early May, Representatives Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.) and Pet Olson (R-Texas) circulated a “Dear
Colleague” letter Speaker Pelosi and Minority Leader McCarthy to move legislation that would delay the
scheduled $12 billion in cuts to Medicaid DSH over the next two years. 302 members of the House signed the
letter, including every member of Illinois’ Cook County delegation. We will continue collaborate with efforts like
this, to keep the issue front and center in Congress.
Of note for Medicaid policy, senior level turnover continues at CMS, with Chris Traylor, the director of the
Centers for Medicaid and CHIP Services (CMCS) announcing his departure at the end of May. Traylor had only
been in the position since January.
Affordable Care Act and Prescription Drug Pricing
 On May 16, the House passed H.R. 986, the Strengthening Health Care and Lowering Prescription Drug Costs Act.
The bill included bi-partisan measures which were reported out by the Judiciary Committee, designed to get
generic drugs to market faster and inhibit anticompetitive practices on the part of the drug companies. It also
included provisions by Democrats designed to shore up the Affordable Care Act, including:
 H.R. 1385, which would provide funding for states to establish their own individual and small group
marketplaces instead of using the Federal Marketplace.
 H.R. 1386, which would provide $100 million for Federal health navigators that provide assistance to
consumers in purchasing health insurance plans on the Federal Marketplace.
 H.R. 1010, which would prohibit the sale of short-term limited duration health insurance plans, which are
often limited in scope since they are not required to meet the minimum coverage requirements prescribed
in the ACA.
 H.R. 987, which would require HHS to conduct outreach and educational activities to promote health
insurance on the Federal Marketplace.
The House adopted several amendments during floor consideration, including two that would prohibit HHS from:
 Prohibiting “silver loading,” a mechanism for insurers to load their full premium increases to certain mid-level
(i.e., silver) plans to draw down larger Federal premium subsidies to offset the Administration’s elimination of
other cost-sharing subsidies.
 Ending auto enrollment when a marketplace consumer takes no action during open enrollment.
All House Democrats present voted for the bill along with five Republicans. The rest of the Republican members
voted no, arguing that the ACA provisions were poison pills that prevented them from supporting legislation which
7 P a g e

 included bi-partisan generic drug provisions they helped to craft. The measure will not be taken up by the Senate
because of the ACA provisions. The upper chamber is continuing to work toward bi-partisan drug pricing legislation
of its own.
House leaders have indicated that in the late summer or fall a larger drug pricing bill, including authorizing Medicare
to negotiate prices directly with the drug manufacturers, could move forward. This could be the vehicle for
advancing a number of “must pass” health care provisions, including a delay of the scheduled Medicaid DSH cuts.
Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for CCHHS at both the State and Federal level.

Community Outreach
June 1

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Sisters Working it Out's 5th Annual Day of Beauty
which will take place at the Oakwood Shores Community Center located at 3825 S. Vincennes Avenue in
Chicago. The event called "Celebrating Beauty from the Inside Out" will be a special health focused event
for cancer survivors.

June 1

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County’s Second
Chance Adult & Juvenile Expungement Summit, which will take place at Westinghouse College Prep
located at 3223 W. Franklin Boulevard in Chicago. The Expungement Summit offers legal and social
resources to ex-offenders, which include health, education, housing, and community services. It is
important for ex-offenders to be healthy so that they can re-enter society properly. The Provident HIV
Testing Team will do testing at this event.

June 1

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Epilepsy Foundation of Greater Chicago's 2019
Conferencia De Epilepsia which will take place at Lurie's Children's Hospital located at 225 East Chicago
Avenue in Chicago. This third conference on epilepsy matters targets educational opportunities for the
Latino community.

June 2

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Buffalo Grove Pride Celebration, a Unique
Community Event which is hosted by the Buffalo Grove Park District and will take place at the Mike Rylko
Community Park located at 1000 Buffalo Grove Road in Buffalo Grove. Commissioner Kevin Morrison was
instrumental in obtaining our participation in this event, which highlights equality, and pride in the north
suburbs. Our outreach materials will highlight the new Arlington Heights Health Center at this event.

June 6

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Metropolitan Family Services' Community Resource
Fair which will take place at their Northwest Facility located at 3249 North Central Avenue in Chicago.

June 7

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Illinois Department of Employment Security’s
Women Veteran's Employer and Resource Fair which takes place at their Harvey Office located at 16845 S.
Halsted in Harvey. IDES is sponsoring the Women Veteran's Employer and Resource Fair so female Veterans
have access to employment opportunities and resources to help them be healthy in their community.

June 8

CountyCare promotion at the Friend Family Health Center’s Men's Health Event which will take place at
their health center located at 1522 E. 63rd Street in Chicago.

June 12

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 4th Annual Evanston Vineyard Care Center
Resource Fair which will take place at their center located at 2945 Howard Street in Evanston.
8 P a g e

 June 14

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Illinois Department of Children & Family Services’
3rd Annual Professional Development Day 2019 which will take place at the University of Illinois University
located at 750 S. Halsted in Chicago. The Latino Advisory Council in conjunction with DCFS is hosting this
event with the theme Home Matters: Creating a Culture where everyone thrives. This event will provide
with information and resources from various organizations and we will highlight the pediatric services that
the System offers.

June 15

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the ¡Vive tu vida! Get up! Get moving! Festival, which is
sponsored by National Alliance for Hispanic Health and the Chicago Hispanic Health Coalition at the
McKinley Park Field House, located at 2210 W. Pershing Road in Chicago. ¡Vive tu vida! Get up! Get moving!
is designed to promote individual and family physical activity for better health. The event will include
organized physical activities for adults and children, screenings, and take-home information. Chronic
diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, asthma, HIV/AIDS, and childhood and adult obesity are affecting
many in our community.

June 15

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Palos Township Health & Resource Fair, which will
take place at the Palos Township Offices located at 10802 S. Roberts Road in Palos Park.

June 15

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at State Representative Michael McAuliffe’s Kid's Health
and Safety Expo which will take place at Maine Park. Located at 2701 W. Sibley Street in Park Ridge.

June 19

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Summit of Hope hosted by the Illinois Department
of Corrections at the Proviso East High School located at 807 S. 1st Avenue in Maywood. The Summit of
Hope a community expo, bringing together local service providers to create a "one-stop" environment for
parolees and probationers to obtain necessary assistance to move past barriers. Many of the over 5000
attendees are in need of health insurance. The Provident HIV Testing Team will do testing at this event.

June 19

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Summit Park District Health Fair which will take
place at their park located at Summit Park District 5700 S. Archer Road in Summit.

June 20

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Metropolitan Family Services' Community Resource
Fair which will take place at their Back of the Yards office located at 5338 S. Loomis in Chicago.

June 21

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Proviso Leyden Council for Community Action,
Inc.’s Career and Resource Fair which takes place at the Proviso Missionary Baptist Church located at 1116
S. 5th Avenue in Maywood.

June 28

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Corazón Community Services' 11th Annual Family
Health Fair which takes place at the Cicero Community Center located at 2250 S. 49th Avenue in Cicero.
Corazón Community Services offers life-improving programs to the Cicero community, promoting youth
safety, health education, and leadership skills. Representatives from the Cicero Health Center will join the
outreach staff to promote pediatric and other services in their health center.

June 29

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Latino Organization of the Southwest's Community
Resource Fair which will take place outside their offices at 63rd Street and Karlov Avenue in Chicago. The
Vision of the Community Resource Fair is to provide services in partnership with state agencies, local
community organizations, and educational entities, and businesses.

Access Community Health Network is hosting a series of health fairs where they invited all MCOS to participate.
CountyCare will have an informational table at these health fairs throughout the summer. Special
promotion of the CountyCare Rewards program will happen at these events.
9 P a g e

 June 1 - Access Hawthorne Family Center - 3040 S. Cicero Avenue, Cicero, IL 60804
June 8 - Access Northwest Family Health Center - 1120 N. Arlington Heights Road, Arlington Heights, IL
June 15 – Access Blue Island Family Health Center - 13000 Maple Avenue, Blue Island, IL 60406
June 22 - Access Servicios Medicos La Villita - 3303 W. 26th Street, Chicago, IL 60623
June 29 – Access Grand Boulevard Health & Specialty Center - 5401 S. Wentworth Avenue, Chicago, IL
Near North Health Services is hosting a series of health fairs as part of their Men’s Health Week where they invited all
MCOS to participate. CountyCare will have an informational table at these health fairs throughout the
summer. Special promotion of the CountyCare Rewards program will happen at these events.
June 10 - Komed Holman Health Center - 4259 S. Berkeley, Chicago, IL 60653
June 11 – Sunnyside Health Center - 4501 N. Sheridan Avenue, Chicago, IL 60640
June 12 - Cottage View Health Center - 4829 S. Cottage Grove, Chicago, IL 60615
June 13 - Woodfield Moody Health Center - 1276 N Clybourn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60610
June 13 - Near North Kostner Health Center - 1520 N. Kostner Avenue, Chicago, IL 60651
In partnership with area community churches, Sinai Health Ministries is hosting a series of community health fairs
where they invite community organization, healthcare organization and health plans to participate and
provide information to attendees. Cook County Health and CountyCare will have an informational table at
these health fairs.
June 1 – Greater Harvest Church - 5141 S. State Street, Chicago, IL 60609
June 29 – Village of Bellwood Pink Divas and Gents 2nd Annual Cancer Walk/Run - Village of Bellwood
Municipal Building, 3200 Washington Boulevard, Bellwood, IL 60104

10   P a g e

 