Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, February 22, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors Hon. Dr. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC; David Ernesto
Munar; and Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (4)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Ada Mary
Gugenheim; and Mike Koetting

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Ammar Rizki – Chief Financial Officer of Cook County

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 18, 2019
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Munar, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of January 18, 2019. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
It was noted that request number 8 is being withdrawn from consideration.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, February 22, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
With regard to request number 9, Director Richardson-Lowry noted that CCHHS has a cumulative contractual
sum associated with GE, so she requested the cumulative numbers for GE around contract compliance. Secondly,
she stated that consideration of the request being presented is particularly difficult when the Committee has only
one (1) set of numbers around compliance for the package. She recommended that further thought be given to
how the Committee can get better and current information with respect to compliance that will inform their
decision-making when considering these requests.
With regard to request number 12, Director Driscoll inquired regarding the number of patients that Access to Care
currently serves. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, responded that this information will be
provided. He added that the administration is inserting performance indicators in this year’s grant funding to the
organization; those metrics will be shared with the Board.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Munar, moved the approval of
request numbers 1 through 16, with the exception of request number 8, which
was withdrawn, and subject to completion of review by Contract Compliance,
where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Section III

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Quarterly Report – Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) Metrics (Attachment #2)
Mr. Jones presented the quarterly report of M/WBE Metrics.
information.

The Committee reviewed and discussed the

Director Richardson-Lowry inquired whether a category for local hires can be added. Mr. Jones responded that he
is unsure if that information is tracked, but he will follow-up with staff from the Cook County Office of Contract
Compliance to determine whether that is possible.

B. Report of emergency purchases (Attachment #3)
One (1) emergency purchase was reported to the Committee.

V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Pension Overview (Attachment #4)
Ammar Rizki, Chief Financial Officer of Cook County, provided an overview of the Pension Overview
presentation, which included information on the following subjects:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, February 22, 2019
Page 3

V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Pension Overview (continued)














VI.

Overview of the Pension Fund
Demographics and Funded Ratio History
Historical Background
Pension Fund Status in 2014
Historical Review
Pension Fund Today
Sales Tax Increase in 2015
Addressing Pension Fund Liabilities
Pension Fund Actuarial Valuation
Addressing Pension Fund Liabilities
County Health Fund Allocation
Long-Term Fiscal Planning
Structural Concerns

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #5)



Metrics
Financial: FY2018 – November 2018 and FY2019 – December 2018

Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the finance metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, February 22, 2019
Page 4

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

A request was made for information on the cumulative numbers for the vendor (GE) around
contract compliance. Page 2

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made for further thought to be given to how the Committee can get better and
current information with respect to contract compliance when requests are presented for the
consideration. Page 2

Follow-up:

A request was made to include a category for local hires in the M/WBE reports in the future.
Page 2

 