COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN .IAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
APRIL 26, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

Dr. Karen Cosby, ultrasound director for the department of emergency medicine, is retiring after 28 years with Cook
County Health. Afterjoining CCH, she quickly became a favorite attending physician among emergency medicine residents
and was instrumental in setting up the Cook County-Rush Emergency Ultrasound Program, for which she serves as
fellowship director. For the past 23 years, Dr. Cosby has been in charge of the Department of Emergency Medicine
Morbidity and Mortality conferences. She is a recognized national expert in emergency ultrasound and diagnostic errors,
lecturing around the world and publishing countless studies and papers throughout her career. Her commitment, drive and

determination will be missed at CCH.

The CCH Emergency Medicine Division of Toxicology recently presented seven case studies at American College of
Medical Toxicology Annual Scientific Meeting in San Francisco. With us today are Drs. Neeraj Chhabra, Arkacly Rasin,
Michael Wahl and Caleb Scarth as well as Lurn Rizvanolli and Joanne Routsolias. Their hard work and dedication to
research and best practices in their field continue to put CCH at the forefront of emergency care for Cook County and

the entire country.

Thank you to CCH team members Katina Haymer, Jacqueline Polk, Juanita Shumaker, Tondra Starks, Jewell Thompson,
Marilyn Wayne and Karen Williams-Bouie - who recently volunteered at the Black Women?s Expo at McCormick Place. The
team conducted blood pressure screenings and handed out information about CCH. Additionally, CCH physicians, Drs.
Sharon Irons, Arnold Turner, Brian Humphrey and Courtney Hollowell participated in a panel discussion on men?s health
while CCH nurse and stroke program coordinator Adaku Madubuko provided a session on stroke prevention.

Activities and Announcements

0 The Cook County Health Pharmacy Department launched a Patient Prescription Communication Service (PPCS) on
Tuesday, April 23, 2019. The PPCS automatically noti?es patients, via a telephone call, that their prescriptions are
ready for pick up or has been shipped. PCS also notifies patients if there is a problem with their prescription.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.4

Provident Hospital and Sengstacke Health Center will host the annual its 23rd Annual 4 Men Only Health and
Wellness Fair Saturday, April 27, 2019. The health and wellness fair provides health screening including eye,
blood pressure, HIV and Hep tests to attendees. The event takes place at Provident Hospital located at 500 E.

525t Street in Chicago.

IMPACT Objective 6.3

Cook County Health C.A.R.E (Connecting Adolescents to Resources and Education] Employment) is a workforce
initiative designed to introduce and develop a diverse workforce pipeline with key community partners to provide
opportunities for Chicago youths ages 14-25 for access into entry-level to middle skilled healthcare careers. Cook
County Health C.A.R.E. is a new program funded through a grant from the Michael Reese Health Trust.

On Tuesday April 23ml C.A.R.E had its first speaking engagement with Chicago Public Schools (CPS). Denise Davis the
Outpatient Pharmacy Supervisor at Stroger Pharmacy engaged, inspired and motivated 22 CPS students at Gage
Park High School.

IMPACT 2020 Focus Area 6

CCH will host its second Research InnoVation Summit titled Housing is Health on May 22, 2019. The afternoon
will include several presentations from CCH leaders, 3 health provider panel, a policy panel as well as remarks from
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle and a CCH patient who has bene?tted from our programs. The
invitation is attached.

IMPACT Objective 6.3

Chicago Healthcare System Coalition for Preparedness 8: Response Annual Full-Scale Exercise will take
place on May 2, 2019. The scope of this exercise will focus on role in response to major incident. This year's
scenario encompasses impacts and considerations associated with a multi-hospital evacuation triggered by an
imminent threat. All CCH facilities will participate in the drill. The Hospital Incident Command System will be
activated for the duration of the drill.

Leadership has shared several of the strategic planning presentations at various internal CCH meetings and
received good feedback. The employee and community town hall meetings have been scheduled as follows:

April 30, 2019: Stroger Hospital May 2, 2019: Provident Hospital
4pm - Employee Town Hall 4pm - Employee Town Hall
6pm - Community Town Hall 6pm Community Town Hall
May 7, 2019: Cicero Community Center May 9, 2019: Oak Forest Health Center
6pm - Community Town Hall 4pm Employee Town Hall

6pm Community Town Hall
Food As Medicine Update

Through April 9, Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has resulted in
177 visits to 13 CCH health centers Austin, Arlington Heights, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove, Englewood,
Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke. Collectively, the
Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 23,018 individuals,
representing 76,025 household members, totaling more than 477,000 pounds of fresh produce. Most of the
individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health center visit.

The Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of May include the following ACHN Health Centers.
May 2 Prieto Health Center 2424 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago, IL 60623
May 14 Provident Hospital/Sengstacke Health Center - 500 W. 51St Street, Chicago, IL 60615
May 21 Woodlawn Health Center - 6337 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60634
May 17 CORE Center - 2020 W. Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60612
May 28 - Logan Square Health Center - 2840 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, IL 60647
May 23 - Oak Forest Health Center - 15900 S. Cicero Ave. Oak Forest, IL 60452

2 Page

The Fresh Market schedule is listed below, note updated dates and times:
Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm
Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm
Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food
system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with
Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to' offer SNAP users with a match on all purchases at

Fresh Markets, up to SZO/market/week.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

Legislative Update

State

Federal

More than 6,600 bills and resolutions were filed this session in the House and Senate. April 12 was the deadline
to pass bills out of the originating chamber in order to continue being considered during the spring session. The
House and Senate return to Spring?eld April 30 when they will resume a nearly daily session schedule in an
effort to conclude their business and pass a state budget by the May 31 deadline.

On March 28, the House Appropriations Capital Committee heard from hospital stakeholders during a subject
matter-only hearing. Deputy CEO Debra Carey presented testimony that outlined CCH's request for 
in state capital funding to support the modernization of ?ve CCH health centers. The last time Illinois passed a
comprehensive capital program that includes transportation and non?transportation funding was in 2009.

The Senate Executive Committee approved 5A1 by a party line vote of 12?5-0 with 2 members not
voting; the bill proposes to amend the state constitution to allow for a graduated-income tax rate, instead of the
current flax tax rate. Changing the Illinois constitution requires 3/5ths approval by both chambers of the Illinois
General Assembly. The issue would then be placed on the 2020 statewide ballot and require approval by 60% of
statewide Voters. The earliest a state graduated income tax could be implemented would be 2021.

 

Governor Pritkzer signed HB345 (Tobacco 21) into law, which raises the purchase age for tobacco products,
including e-cigarettes and vaping materials, to 21 years (from 18 years), making Illinois the first state in the
Midwest, and the state nationwide to enact this change. The bill was led by Representative Camille Lilly (D-
Oak Park) in the House and Senator Julie Morrison (D?Deer?eld) in the Senate. PA 101-0002 takes effect July 1,

2019.

Governor Pritkzer announced that Illinois would draft administrative rules to clarify Medicaid coverage of
gender affirming surgery for individuals 21 years and older with gender This is estimated to impact
1,400 individuals of the 3.1M total Medicaid participants.

The House left Washington for a two-week Spring recess on Wednesday, April 10 and the Senate followed suit
the next day. While House Democrats touted their legislative accomplishments over the first one hundred days
since regaining the majority, including legislation to bolster the ACA, it is unlikely that many of their priority bills
will receive a Senate vote, much less make it to the President?s desk. Nevertheless, work continues on measures
to bring down prescription drug prices and, of course, must-pass annual spending bills.

3 Page

Budget and Appropriations: Rather than produce an FY 2020 budget resolution, the House Budget Committee
decided to propose a measure to lift the statutory discretionary budget caps imposed by the Budget Control Act
of 2011. The legislation would increase both the domestic and defense discretionary spending caps for the next
two fiscal years. This would give the Appropriations Committee the top line numbers it would need to begin to
craft the twelve annual appropriations bills. By Wednesday House leaders pulled the bill because members of
the Progressive Caucus were prepared to join Republicans in voting against the bill because they objected to the
levels of defense spending. However, in a procedural move the House did approve a rule that gives the
appropriators the ability to begin work as though the measure had passed. Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell has indicated that he wants to reach a deal, even though the President has made statements
suggesting that the White House would be content to let the automatic sequestration cuts kick in.

Affordable Care Act: In a surprise move, on March 25, the US. Department of Justice changed course and told
the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals that the government agreed with the District Court in Texas, et al. v. United
States and that the entire ACA should be ruled unconstitutional. Previously the DOJ had argued that only the
consumer protections like guaranteed issue should be invalidated after Congress zeroed out the individual
mandate penalty for not carrying health insurance. After a week of controversy, which included the President
calling for another ACA ?repeal and replace? effort in Congress, the President said that he would wait until after
the 2020 elections. Nevertheless, the Administration?s position before the Appeals Court has not changed. Oral
arguments are scheduled for the week of July 8.

On March 28, another federal judge struck down the US. Department of Labor rules expanding association
health plans under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) as an end-run around the ACA.

Medicaid: Conversations about reforming the Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) program continue
among Senate Republicans. On April 4, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) published
an op-ed in Stat arguing that Congress should not simply ?kick the can down the road? by delaying scheduled
statutory cuts to the Medicaid DSH program. He called for a new schedule to allow hospitals to prepare for cuts,
for updating the Medicaid DSH formula to reflect current needs, and for full transparency and disclosure of all
public funds that hospitals receive. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D?Calif.) dismissed the idea as a non-starter in
the House, suggesting it would reward states that refused to implement the ACA Medicaid expansion. The
County is continuing to work to elevate the pro?le of the issue with our delegation, so that a delay can be
included in an appropriate legislative vehicle before the cuts go into effect.

As is often the case in Medicaid, much of the action is in the states. On April 1, Nebraska submitted plans to seek
a waiver to impose work requirements and limit bene?ts for the expansion approved by voters in November.
Similarly, on April 9, the governor of Idaho signed a bill which modi?es the ACA expansion approved by voters.
The new legislation directs the state to apply for an 1115 waiver to impose work requirements and allow those
between 100 and 139 percent of the federal poverty level (the so-called Medicaid gap) to retain their subsidized
ACA coverage. The next day, on April 10, the Administration appealed the federal district court?s ruling against
the Arkansas and Kentucky Medicaid work requirements. The lower court had found that the states had not
demonstrated that the work rules furthered the Medicaid program?s goal of medical assistance.

Of note for Medicaid policy, at least five senior officials at the CMS Center for Medicaid and CHIP Services, the
agency that oversees the Medicaid program, have resigned since the beginning of the year.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for CCH at both the State and Federal level.

4 Page

Community Outreach

May Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College Service Days, hosted by the Wellness
Center of Malcolm College at the school located at 1900 W. Jackson Boulevard in Chicago. This event for the
students and community will provides services such as health insurance enrollment, counseling, mental health
support services and nutrition education, to name a few. The HIV testing team from the Austin Health Center

CDC will do HIV tests at this event.

CountyCare promotion at the McNeal Hospital's Stroke Awareness Fair, which is taking place in the hospital's
lobby located at 3249 S. Oak Park Avenue in Berwyn.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Cinco de Mayo Fest which is hosted by the Senior
Service Coalition of Southeast Chicago and will take place at the South Chicago Senior Satellite Site located at
9233 S. Burley Avenue in Chicago. The goal of the fair is to celebrate Older Americans Month and Cinco de
Mayo by providing information and connecting seniors, their families and caregivers to resources.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the McKinney Vento Resource Fair, which is hosted by
South Cook ISC (Intermediate Service Center) and will take place at the R.I.S.E. School campus located at 405
Ashland Avenue in Chicago Heights. South Cook ISC sponsors this event for homeless students and their
families who live within their service boundaries.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Southside Early Learning Network's Community
Resource Fair, which will take place at the Kelly Branch Library Auditorium located at 6151 S. Normal Boulevard
in Chicago. The Southside Early Learning Network?s iGrow Program invites everyone to learn about home
visiting programs for expecting mothers and children birth 0 child care referrals and child care in Cook
County, resources in the community and provides for one-on-one coaching for pa rents and caregivers of
children 0-8 years old and much more.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Summit Public Library Annual Health Fair, which takes
place at the library located at 6233 S. Archer Road in Summit.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Our Lady Gate of Heaven Health Fair, which is hosted by
the Sinai Health Ministries at the church located at 2338 E. 99th Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Well Women Program, which is hosted by President
Larry Dominick and the Elected Officials of the Town of Cicero, at the Cicero Community Center located at
2250 S. 49th Avenue in Cicero. Various health screenings and beauty services will be offered throughout the

day, completely free of charge.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Buenos Dias Mujer, which is hosted by the Sinai Health
Ministries at the immaculate Conception Church located at 2944 E. 88th Street in Chicago. The goal of Buenos
Dias Mujer is to bring awareness to women?s health.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Orland Township Senior Health Fair which will take
place at the Orland Township Offices located at 14807 S. Ravinia Avenue in Orland Park. The event will provide

health screenings and information on local health resources.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at 14th Annual Statewide Summit for Bilingual Parents which
is hosted by Illinois State Board of Education at the Hilton in Oakbrook. The Annual Statewide Summit for
Bilingual Parents provides a rich mix of information about issues of critical importance to parents from
linguistically and culturally diverse backgrounds. Top speakers are joined by experts and panels on such topics

5 Page

May pathways to academic success, enhanced parental participation in schools, immigration issues, bilingual
education programs, effective parenting practices, health care options and more. Health Insurance options are
a major component of the resources available to parents.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Rolling Meadows Police Department's Family Services
Day 2019, which will take place at Young Innovations Headquarters located at 2260 Algonquin Parkway in
Rolling Meadows. The event will provide health screenings and information on local health resources and will
be a place to promote the health services of the new Arlington Heights Health Center.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Maywood Youth Summer Activities Resource Fair,
which will take place at the Lightford Recreation Center located at 809 Madison Street in Maywood.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Taking Care of You and Your Family Health and
Wellness Fair, which is sponsored by Calumet City Alderman Leni and takes place at the Calumet
City Public Library located at 600 Manistee Street in Calumet City. The focus of this year? 5 event is event to
promote health in the community and inform residents about resources.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Community Assistance Programs' Senior Resource Fair,
which takes place at their main building located at 11717 South Halsted Street in Chicago Heights. This health
fair is for their clients and community members who are age 55 and over to help to prevent illness by providing
health screenings and information on local health resources.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Friend Family Health Center?s Community Baby Shower at
their Cottage Grove facility located at 800 E. 55th Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at A Safe Haven's 5th Annual Veterans Stand Down at the A
Safe Haven Warehouse located at 2501 W. Taylor Street in Chicago. Over 200 Stand Downs take place across
the country each year. A Stand Down is when hundreds of homeless and at-risk veterans are provided access to
a wide range of services by representatives from academic, workforce development, social services and the
health care industry.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the City of Chicago's 6th Annual Faith and Action Kick-Off
which is hosted by the Chicago Police Department - 022nd District CAPS will take place at the Trinity United
Church of Christ located at 400 W. 95th Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 10th District Peace Parade, Health and Resource Fair
which is hosted by the Sinai Health Institute and the Chicago Police Department andwhich will take place at
the Garfield Park Fieldhouse located at 100 North Central Park Avenue in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the National Senior Health Fitness Day, which is hosted
by the Homewood Flossmoor Racquet Fitness Club at the club located at 2920 W. 183rd Street in
Homewood. The 25th Annual Wellness Event will have a variety of health related presentations that will focus
on mental health and exercise, cancer support and how to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Greater Auburn Gresham Health Fair, which is hosted
by the GAGDC at 7901 5. Racine Avenue in Chicago. Health Fair "0n the Block? is an annual event that takes
place in the Auburn Gresham community and promotes peace, health, and wellness to the community. Health
screenings, resources, fitness activities, and variety of different activities centered on health and wellness will
be available for attendees.

6 Page


SYSTEM BRIEFS 

A LT 
April ?7 marks National Public Health Week. on observance that recognizes the important role
public health plays in the communities we serve. The following information is provided to educate
CCH staff about important public health issues. For more information on national activities, visit the
American Public Health Association '5 website. For more information about the Cook County
Department of Public Health, click here.

 

 

 

 

The more places that support us in living a healthier life. the better. That's
Healthy where the Healthy HotSpot initiative comes in. Led by Cook County

Department of Public Health in collaboration with many partners. Healthy
commumhes HotSpot aims to multiply the number of places that make healthy living easier
where we live. work. learn. play, worship and receive healthcare. Visit

to learn more.

 

All Americans deserve an equal opportunity to make the choices that lead to
. good health. But-to ensure that all Americans have that opportunity.

Health advances are needed not only in health care. but also in education.
childcare. housing. business. iaw. media. community planning. transportation.
and agriculture. Making these advances involves working together to
eliminate unfair. preventable. and unjust gaps in health and well-being.
Health equity was identi?ed as a priority health issue for suburban Cook
County during WePlan2020 community health assessment process.

Download the report at 

Behavioral health has also been identi?ed as a priority health issue for

Behavioral suburban Cook County. Behavioral health includes mental illness and
substance misuse. According to a 2016 joint and Chicago

Health Department of Health report. there were 1.081 opioid-related overdose

deaths in Cook County in 2016: 741 in Chicago and 340 in the suburbs. SCC is

also experiencing a new surge of opioid-related deaths from Fentanyl and

other opioids. Read the report at hit 5: 00. t2b B.

 

 

uses technology to disseminate important health information to the
Tech 8: Public public and partners. Follow us on Twitter and
like us on Facebook Check the website
Health at regularly for information about the latest
health topics. including disease outbreaks and public health emergencies.

 

Climate change is already linked to more frequent and extreme natural
Climate disasters. it is also expected to affect food security. water and air quality; and

exacerbate the risks of vector-borne diseases. such as West Nile Virus and
Change Lyme disease. Get info: Mosquito-bite prevention

ticks 
and emergency preparedness at 

 

 

 

 

Abbi.? System Briefs System Briefs is a publication intended to update all CCH staff on important initiatives. programs
and services. Managers are encouraged to share this information with their teams as well as to post it in employee areas to
ensure that all employees receive the information.

CODK COUNTY

HEALTH

SYSTEM NEWS

April 25, 2019

 

Letter From the CEO

 

Dear Cook County Health Friends, 

Across the country, providers are moving away from
sick care and focusing on health care through
preventive treatment and care. At Cook County
Health, we are no different.

As one of the largest public health care systems in the
U.S., CCH records more than one million outpatient
visits and has more than 23,000 inpatient admissions
yearly. To meet the growing demands placed on the
system, we must continue to evolve to better care for
our patients? needs.

As part of that evolution, we are developing our next
strategic plan with appropriate emphasis on health
and wellness, while remaining true to our historic
mission to care for all. When we adopted our current
strategic plan, it came after input from a variety of stakeholders
including employees, patients and the communities we proudly serve. It also de?ned
opportunities for us to establish a platform for continued success in delivering on our
mission and commitment to all of Cook County. We continue to modernize our facilities
and expand our services. In addition to our new Professional Building on the central
campus and our new Arlington Heights Health Center, we look forward to additional
suburban expansion later this year in North Riverside and Blue Island all projects
contemplated in our previous strategic plan.

 

As we develop our 2020-2022 strategic plan, we look forward to engaging with you
about the future of CCH. To that end, please consider joining us at an upcoming town
hall meeting to learn about strategic plan and provide input.

To RSVP, email WW. Your contributions will help OCH

develop a strategy that enables us to care for our patients and the communities we
serve well into the future. I thank you for your continued support.

Dr. Jay Shannon, CEO, CCH


11
COOK COUNTY HEALTH

Strategic Planning Town Hall Meeting

Par?ei?pate in the (?L?ll
Strategic Planning Process

YOUAREINVITED .

I1

Shag" Hmpiul- Contul Campus

 

(?1qu County Health is hm?nga'l'mm 1? l- IL '1
Hall Meeting to gather input from the 
?Immunity on its 2020-2022
Strategic Plan.

Prowdenl Hetpita!
1.1? 
.u ..
HI 5.. 

Cicero Communil! Cantu

5  1? 3
.1
[-1.11 

 

COOK COU NTY

[xi-'H A LT Oak Forest Health Center
I: 

:?Wk?ou?tyhhi-Wg lIi 1:1: 1:11?:

 

County Health Cuts Ribbon on Outpatient
Center in Arlington Heights

 

COOK 

Hung,

Alba-Qt! 

 



Ftont row: ToniPreckwinkIe, Cook County Board President, Scott Britten, Cook County Board of
Commissioners (14th District), PeterSiluestri, Cook County Board of Commissioners (9th District),
Bridget Degnen, Cook County Board of Commissioners (12th District), Mayor Thomas Hayes,
Arlington Heights, and VictorMedina, CCH

Back row Kevin Morrison, Cook County Board of Commissioners (15th District) and Dr. Jay
Shannon, CEO, CCH

On April 12th, Cook County Health held a ribbon?cutting ceremony and public open
house at its new Arlington Heights Health Center as part of its ongoing plans to expand
care in suburban Cook County.

The CCH Arlington Heights Health Center of?cially opened on January 14th. Located at
3250 N. Arlington Heights Road, the 25,000 square foot facility includes 25 exam
rooms, dental space and an on-site lab. The comprehensive patient care team, which
provides a variety of primary and specialty care services, includes bilingual Spanish-
speaking staif members. The center expects more than 30,000 visits annually.

The services that will be provided in the new center include:

Chronic disease management
Dental services

Health education classes
Immunizations
Mammography

Obstetrics

Pediatrics

Prenatal care

Primary care for children and adults
WIC nutrition services
Behavioral health

This commitment to outpatient and specialty care, and community wellness will
improve the health of CCH patients, reduce unnecessary health care costs and provide
the greatest bene?t to all of Cook County. For more information, or to make an
appointment, call the Patient Support Center at (312) 864-0200.

Mujeres Latinas en Acci?n

 




-. m?
1733901512 fix?
I . 

Patricia Hernandez, CCH director of CareLinlc, gathers ith Bertha Mo rin, director of comm unity
engagement and mobilization, and community leaders from Mujeres Latinas en Accion.

 

On March 27 Patricia Hernandez, OCH director of CareLink, presented to 15
community leaders from Mujeres Latinas en Accion about the bene?ts of CareLink and
how to access the health system. CareLink is speci?cally designed to assist uninsured or
underinsured patients. Care Link can help cover the costs of services at CCH, including
clinic visits, lab tests, hospital stays, and urgent and emergency services.

Making sure uninsured or underinsured patients receive preventive care is important
to lowering health care costs. Partnering with community organizations like Mujeres
Latinas en Acci?n ensures access to care for all Cook County residents and is vital to
keeping our communities healthy.

Click here to learn more about the OCH CareLink program.

Illinois Raises Legal Age for Buying Tobacco
Products from 18 to 21

 

 

Left: Illinois GovemorlB. Pritzker signs the bill raising the legal age to buy tobacco products to 21.

Right: Dr. Terry Mason, chief operating o?icer for the Cook County Department of Public Health
with Illinois State Representative Camille Lilly

On April 7 Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker signed legislation to raise the legal age for
buying tobacco products from 18 to 21, making Illinois the ?rst state in the Midwest to
adopt Tobacco 21'statewide.

House Bill 345 takes effect July 1 . It covers both tobacco and vaping products,
including cigarettes, chewing tobacco, e-cigarettes and vapes. Illinois will be the eighth
state to implement the legislation when the bill takes e?ect.

According to the Cook County Department of Public Health, 95 percent of smokers start
before the age of 21.

4 Men Only at Provident Hospital

 

Don?t miss out on 4 Men Only Health 8: Wellness Fair this Saturday, April 27 from
11 am 3 pm. There will be complimentary screenings and lunch.



 

   
 

Complimentary
Screenings 8: Lunch Lab Work for:
screening Cholesterol, Diabetes
. - - - Prostate Cancer (over 40)
1313;138:3193? (Must present photo ID for lab werlr.)
Blood Frassure Screening
HIV Rapid Testing! Hep 

Saturday, April 27, 2019



Proviglent Hospital of Cook County
500 East 5tst Street - Chicago. IL 60615

  

Far more information call
312"572?2705
a a u. 

 

Alpha Phi Alpha annity. Kappa Alpha 1'23 Clair-1.0 Mr thcwegn
late neat ?My. 1.: Sigma Mama), Inc. ?lm
um Chapter L?hicagntieighb ??me
ma?amt Prey-am.
My Pregame,
?lemma ?Easting
COOK COUNTY
HEALTH 



CCH at Black Women?s Expo

 

Dr. Sharon Irons led a discussion about men's health topics
with Dr. Brian Humphrey, Dr. Courtney Hollowell and Dr.
Arnold Turner. Attendees learned about the importance for
men to stay healthy for the betterment of the familial unit.

Right: CCH Staff Jackie Polk, Karen Barrie-Williams, Tundra Starks,
Katina Homer and Marilyn Wayne volunteering at the Black Women?s

   
   

Expo .

Below: CCH Physicians Dr. Sharon Irons. Dr. Arnold Turner, Dr. Brian
Humphrey and Dr. Courtney Hollow ell.

Dr. Irene Aluen-Metzner Named Cook County Health
Doctor of the Year

 

On March 29, CCH recognized Dr. Irene Aluen?
Metzner as the CCH 2019 Doctor of the Year.

Dr. Aluen-Metzner, who lives in Oak Park with her
husband and daughter, is an internal medicine
physician at Cook County Health's Logan Square
health center and is director of the primary care
residency program. Dr. Aluen-Metzner has been
with CCH for 14 years, completing her residency in
2008.

To help ensure a high level of care for CCH patients,
she is involved with a ariety of task groups to
improve processes for patients needing specialty
care or testing.

 

She has also worked to improve the lives of her
colleagues. Dr. Aluen-Metzner spearheaded the hospital?s wellness committee, helping
to make important gains for other physicians, while working to prevent physician
burnout.

Dr. Irene Aluen?Metzner shows her Cook County Doctor ofthc Year Aw ard.

Check Out Cook County Health?s
New Instagram Account!

 

7 129 228

to? com, pests, toilewere leliewing
HEALTH

Message 
Cook County Health
HOSpitai

Cook County Health cares for more than 300,000
people each year with dignity and respect,
regardless of their ability to pay.


1969 Ogden Ave, Chicago, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Geek County Health Foundation
Associate Board presents the

2ND ANNUAL
Vial
e333

Proceeds benefiting the Coach County Health
Foundation Associate Board.

THURSDAY, MAY 2, 2019

5:00 PM. 8:00 PM.


15 WEST DIVISION STREET

TICKETS: 535 in advance
$40 at the door

Includes trivia. two drink tickets
and light appetizers

hl 

gs. Pl



Julelgh Nowinski onchak 

"c 

 

nae use disordm

Nowinslu Ronchubmluwlth a mew-dimiplimryl
team within can had we: diurnal partners to
implement um 10 53311411: ality. tam-

based. Substance use em moss (Hrs minimally
health centers. correctional health facility. enmgeney
department and inpatiem settings: as well as within
primary care clinics at partnering federally quali?ed
health centers (PORCH). She' Is also core faculty member

 

Cook County Health in the News

 

It HeIaId

Suburban Chicago's Information Source

   


CHICAGO
lh i't. in cl'ni a li
ria' ril albt' "e 11' onl-lei 

(LThicago (tribune 

CHECAGO 

eoom i'a a -resi nb asoc alh
Ph ii aeCo a Wailing

Doctor of the Year



-

Here Now. Cook County Health Sto Cor 

 

Watch us on Cook County Health in
CAN TV the Community:
Spring Events

Every month, Cook County Health
features a guest expert on CAN TV to offer 1 . . .
viewers inform ation on varinus health CCH outreach team 1331110113395 111 3

topics, such as heart disease and breast variety 0f?01111111111it? (3""911?45 thro 1131101?
cancer. and. (11501153 prevention and Cook County. it is a health fair?
treatment strategies. Be sure to tune in to est ira], job fair or community

CAN TV on the sec-0nd Tues day ofench picnic. outreach markers make
113011111 at 5 13111 t0 1110 sure that Cook County residents knew

 

segment. and call in with your health about the full portfolio the system

95158-1060- TO ?nd provides. If you would like to know
?13i50d?3~ "is? 311d where CCH will be this month. please
look to 1' the Communiiv Health Hotline. Check our calendar of ex'ents.

The next Show will air on 'I?uesday. May
14th at 5 pm.

 

Visit our website at 

If you would like to invite a representative from OCH to attend a community event,

please send an email to events?cookcounty hhs.org.

To provide feedback on CCH Community News, update your contact information, or
unsubscribe, please email Marcelino Garcia, Director of Community Affairs,

at 

