CountyCare
Compliance
Program
Annual Report
Fiscal Year 2018
December 1, 2017 – November 30, 2018

February 28, 2019

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018

Table of Contents
I.

Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 3

II.

Building Blocks – Program Infrastructure and Scope......................................................... 4

III.

Compliance Program Structure – Performance of the Elements ........................................ 6

A.

Policies and Procedures ....................................................................................................... 6

B.

Ad Hoc Activities/Guidance .................................................................................................7

C.

Compliance Office and Committees .................................................................................... 8

D. Education and Training ......................................................................................................10
E.

Effective Lines of Communication – Receiving and Responding to Complaints ............... 11

F.

Enforcing Standards ........................................................................................................... 15

G. Auditing and Monitoring ....................................................................................................16
H. Risk Assessment .................................................................................................................16
I.
IV.

Identification of Systemic Issues ........................................................................................ 17
Looking Ahead .................................................................................................................... 17

Page 2

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
I. Introduction
CountyCare is a Managed Care Community Network (MCCN) health plan offered by Cook County
Health (CCH) pursuant to a contract with the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services (HFS). Since late 2012, CCH has partnered with the State of Illinois, initially through the
State of Illinois federal Section 1115 demonstration waiver which was an early start on Medicaid
expansion, then in 2014, CountyCare transitioned into the MCCN. By working to employ the
advantages of our parent organization, CCH, CountyCare is able to uniquely promote achievement
of the Triple Aim: 1) improving the member experience, 2) improving the health of populations
overall, while 3) reducing the cost of care. The operation of the CountyCare MCCN is facilitated
through CCH and its various subcontractors.
To adhere to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Managed Care Program
Integrity requirements 1, contractual provisions in the MCCN Agreement with HFS, and the
elements of an effective compliance program as recommended in the Department of Health and
Human Services Office of Inspector General (OIG) Compliance Program Guidance publications,
CountyCare developed and implemented the CountyCare Compliance Program. The CountyCare
Compliance Program is designed to demonstrate the health plan’s ongoing commitment to
promoting ethical and lawful conduct consistent with all applicable laws, regulations, and
contractual requirements, as well as CCH policies, procedures, and Code of Ethics/Standards of
Conduct.
This Annual Report presents the activities throughout county fiscal year 2018. The CountyCare
Managed Care Compliance Program is under the executive leadership of Cathy Bodnar, Chief
Compliance and Privacy Officer, and the operational leadership of Elizabeth Festa, CCH
Compliance Officer dedicated to CountyCare.
During this past fiscal year, CountyCare Health Plan, as a whole, accomplished many goals and
implemented a variety of initiatives. A few health plan achievements include:
 CountyCare Became the Largest Medicaid Health Plan in Cook County: In FY2018,
CountyCare acquired the Medicaid membership of both Aetna and Family Health Network
(FHN), becoming the largest Medicaid Health Plan in Cook County.
 Medicaid Redetermination Efforts: CountyCare sought to retain membership by helping
members with their Medicaid redetermination process. Triggers were developed for
providers, prompts were embedded within providers’ health information systems, and
redetermination events throughout the county were held to help members maintain their
Medicaid eligibility and CountyCare membership.
 CMS Review of Illinois Medicaid Program Integrity Activity: CMS conducted a focused
review of Illinois Medicaid to determine the extent of program integrity oversight of the
managed care program at the state level and to assess the program integrity activities
performed by a random selection of the state’s managed care organizations. CountyCare
1

See 42 C.F.R. §438.608.
Page 3

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
was selected, supplied numerous documents to support program integrity efforts, and
Corporate Compliance travelled to Springfield to participate in interviews with CMS and
HFS, strengthening its relationship with both entities and providing valuable insight into
the Program Integrity activities of CountyCare.
The Corporate Compliance Program dedicated to CountyCare was directly involved in each major
initiative to assure the execution adhered to and incorporated relevant regulatory directives and
contractual requirements.
II. Building Blocks – Program Infrastructure and Scope
The Annual Report begins with a look at the structure and activities of the Program that
incorporate efforts to foster an infrastructure that produces a comprehensive compliance
program for CountyCare and its affiliates. The existing Departmental Organization Chart follows:
Compliance Organization Chart

CCHHS
Board of Directors

Audit & Compliance
Committee of the
Board

CCHHS
Chief Executive Officer

Chief Compliance
& Privacy Officer

Compliance
Officer (Provider)
System
Compliance
Coordinator

Compliance
Analyst
Compliance
Analyst

Compliance
Officer
(CountyCare)

Privacy Officer
(Budgeted)

Compliance
Analyst

Compliance
Analyst

The lightly shaded positions indicate the new hires within FY18. Two (2) of the 3-dedicated
CountyCare Compliance Program positions were vacant for several months within the fiscal year,
including the Compliance Officer assigned to CountyCare. This placed a significant strain on the
existing resources. In the interim, Cathy Bodnar, functioned in an operational leadership capacity
with significant, noteworthy support from Cory Otto, Compliance Analyst. Management of the
core elements of the Program continued which was critical to the ongoing success of the
CountyCare Compliance Program.
Page 4

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
CountyCare Compliance Program Scope
The CountyCare Compliance Program is tasked with outlining guidelines and providing insight
to:
 Comply with the CMS Managed Care Program Integrity requirements and the terms of the
CountyCare Health Plan contract with HFS;
 Prevent, detect and eliminate fraud, waste, abuse, and financial misconduct;
 Protect health plan members, providers, CCH, the State, and the taxpaying public from
potential fraudulent activities;
 Respond and provide guidance related to privacy, confidentiality, and security matters;
 Provide high level oversight to the health plan’s Grievances and Appeals Program; and
 Understand and focus on high-risk areas that have the greatest potential for noncompliance with federal and state regulatory and contractual requirements.
Further, the program aims to implement a working communication strategy to increase the
CountyCare workforce awareness, including vendors and subcontractors, of the following topics:
 Code of Ethics;
 Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security;
 Accessibility of the Compliance Officer and the compliance team;
 Availability through multiple modalities;
 Responsibility to report potential/actual issues;
 Consequences of not reporting; and
 Non-retaliation.
The following types of activities fall into the CountyCare Compliance Program purview:
 Interpretation of contracts, laws, rules, regulations, and organizational policy as they
relate to CountyCare Compliance
 Accurate Books and Records
 Anti-kickback Activities
 Conflict of Interest
 False Claims
 Financial Integrity
 Fraud, Waste and Abuse
 Member Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security (HIPAA)
The CountyCare Compliance Program scope of work is subject to ongoing review and revision as
deemed necessary to ensure ongoing compliance. It is designed to accommodate future changes
in regulations and laws and may be updated to address activities not currently covered, issues
related to new service offerings, or regulatory requirements.

Page 5

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
III.

Compliance Program Structure – Performance of the Elements

This section of the report serves to demonstrate the effectiveness and provide an assessment of
program operations using the seven (7) Compliance Program Elements of a comprehensive
compliance program, as outlined in the CMS Managed Care Program Integrity requirements 2 and
by contractual provisions in the MCCN Agreement.
Element 1
The distribution of written Code of Ethics, as well as written policies and procedures that
promote the health plan’s commitment to compliance (e.g., by including adherence to
compliance as an element in evaluating managers and employees) and that address specific
areas of potential fraud, waste and abuse. The CCH Code of Ethics applies to all CountyCare
personnel, providers, agents and subcontractors. The Code of Ethics, as well as CCH’s policies
and procedures, support CountyCare’s commitment to comply with all federal and state
standards, including but not limited to, applicable statutes, regulations and sub-regulatory
guidance and contractual requirements.
A.

2

Policies and Procedures.
Compliance staff engaged in the following activities to promote and establish an effective
compliance program for the CountyCare Health Plan:
1. Incorporated new and revised 2018 MCCN contractual language into vendor
contracts and Requests for Proposals.
2. Continued to follow the CountyCare Compliance Plan that focuses exclusively on
outlining the compliance responsibilities of the health plan and program design
for implementation, as well as specific CountyCare compliance policies for high
risk areas focused on health plan operations.
3. Ensured that CountyCare personnel, providers, agents and subcontractors had
access to compliance documentation electronically and were provided with hard
copies of compliance policies and procedures upon request.
4. Obtained copies of compliance related policies and procedures, where needed,
from Evolent, CountyCare’s Third-Party Administrator (TPA) and the various
delegated vendors providing services for CountyCare.
5. Reviewed, in conjunction with the TPA, twenty-four (24) policies addressing the
following areas,
o Fraud, Waste, Abuse, and Financial Misconduct;
o Compliance Auditing and Monitoring;
o Provider Audit and Recovery and Appeals Process;
o Compliance Reporting and Non-Retaliation;
o Exclusion Screening, License Verification, and Background Checks;
o Conflict of Interest;
o Delegated Entity Oversight/Monitoring;

See 42 C.F.R. §438.608.
Page 6

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
o
o
B.

Health Plan Marketing; and
Subpoena Handling.

Ad Hoc Activities/Guidance
Corporate Compliance worked with operational areas to assess compliance with
policies, procedures and/or regulatory requirements and, in certain instances, assisted
in the development of new policies and procedures.
Examples of areas assessed:


Health Plan Marketing Policy Compliance Review: Due to the ever-changing
complex regulatory environment of Medicaid managed care plan marketing,
Compliance reviewed and tracked all marketing materials before they were
submitted to HFS for approval. In FY18, Compliance conducted 37 marketing and
material reviews. 36 of 37 reviews conducted were approved by Compliance and
subsequently, HFS. Each CountyCare initiative reviewed may contain multiple
materials, however, each review is counted individually.



Medical and Prior Authorization Policies: Worked with Evolent, CountyCare’s
TPA, to compile all medical payment and prior authorization policies and to
identify areas of need.
Authorized Representatives: Provided written guidance to the member call center
regarding when they could speak with a member’s representative based on a verbal
consent.



Page 7

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018




Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation: Analyzed and provided guidance to CountyCare
operations on the role as a mandated reporter of Critical Incidents and potential
Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation of members.
New Prior Authorization and Utilization Management System: Partnered with the
CountyCare Quality Department to ensure the upgraded method for
communicating prior authorizations and delivering care management comports
with accepted privacy and security standards.

Element 2
The designation of a Chief Compliance Officer and other appropriate bodies, e.g., a corporate
compliance committee, charged with the responsibility of operating and monitoring the
compliance program, and who reports directly to the CEO and the governing body.
C.

Compliance Office and Committees
Cathy Bodnar, the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, reports to both the CCH Audit &
Compliance Committee of the Board and the CCH Chief Executive Officer. In turn, the
CCH Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board and the CCH Chief Executive Officer
each report to the CCH Board of Directors.
The CCH Compliance Officer responsible to assist the Chief Compliance and Privacy
Officer in the operation of the CountyCare Compliance Program is Elizabeth Festa. The
primary duties of the Compliance Officer assigned to CountyCare include the following:
 Serving in a leadership capacity to develop the CountyCare Compliance Program
in conjunction with the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer;
 Collaborating with CountyCare operational leadership to facilitate operational
ownership of compliance;
 Overseeing the Plan’s Program Integrity Program;
 Participating in CountyCare risk assessments to understand potential
vulnerabilities;
 Establishing a structured process for regulatory review, monitoring, and
dissemination of information related to Corporate Compliance;
 Periodically revising the Corporate Compliance Program Plan, with input from the
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors and Executive
Management in light of changes directed to the needs of the health plan and the
laws and policies of federal, state, and county bodies;
 Modifying policies, procedures, and projects to reflect changes in laws and
regulations;
 Developing and coordinating compliance projects with CountyCare and delegated
vendors;
 Performing interviews with all key personnel to validate compliance with
established policies and procedures and applicable regulations in conjunction with
other personnel, as deemed necessary;

Page 8

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018







Completing ongoing assessments to evaluate potential strengths and weaknesses
and to determine the adequacy of the overall CountyCare Corporate Compliance
Program to ensure compliance, as deemed necessary;
Providing guidance related to HIPAA and information sharing;
Monitoring the health plan’s Grievances and Appeals Program for patterns and
trends while providing high level oversight;
Providing recommendations to correct any potential weaknesses or areas of noncompliance discovered; and
Performing follow-up reviews to ensure action plans have been adequately
implemented.

The Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board advises the CCH Board of
Directors regarding the implementation of standards and processes to assure professional
responsibility and honest behavior, compliance with regulatory requirements, and risk
management. The Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board receives periodic updates
regarding the CountyCare Compliance program, including Fraud, Waste and Abuse
(FWA) metrics and assessments of risk areas.
The CountyCare Compliance Committee, chaired by the Compliance Officer
assigned to CountyCare, meets monthly and provides oversight of and guidance to
CountyCare operations to ensure regulatory compliance and fulfill Compliance Program
requirements, which include the implementation and operation of the Compliance
Program. The Compliance Committee also reviews CountyCare activity pursuant to
Compliance Program requirements and contractual requirements, including, but not
limited to audits, monitoring activity, and corrective action plans. The Committee reports
through the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer to the Audit & Compliance Committee
of the Board.
The Fraud, Waste and Abuse Workgroup, chaired by the CountyCare Compliance
Officer with attendance by the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, transitioned from a
monthly workgroup meeting to hoc committee convened to review the structure and
effectiveness of the fraud, waste and abuse detection efforts.
The CountyCare Executive Committee is comprised of CCH senior delegates and
CountyCare leadership and is responsible for providing oversight, guidance and support
to CountyCare leadership to support the achievement of agreed upon goals in a manner
consistent with a provider-sponsored organization. The Committee provides useful
feedback to CountyCare leadership regarding Plan performance and promotes alignment
between CCH objectives and CountyCare programs. The Committee meets once every two
months.
The HFS-OIG MCO Subcommittee is comprised of HFS-OIG and Managed Care
Organization’s (MCO) compliance members involved in the program integrity functions
of their respective MCOs. This subcommittee meets monthly to review and share
Page 9

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
information regarding fraud, waste, and abuse activity as it relates to specific providers
and trends.
Corporate Compliance Program Integrity Meetings with delegated vendors occur on
a weekly, bi-weekly, and monthly cadence, depending on the vendor and amount of
activity. Corporate Compliance oversees the vendors’ activities and uses these meetings
to approve, modify, or reject the direction of investigations and recoupment activity.
The Delegated Vendor Oversight Committee meets quarterly to provide oversight
of the operations affecting the scope of functions of delegated vendors and subcontractors
to ensure compliance with statutory and contractual requirements. The Committee also
provides oversight of quarterly delegation audits, monthly joint operations meetings and
regular monitoring of member and provider complaints. Identified areas of risk that fall
under the purview of Corporate Compliance are referred to Corporate Compliance for
assessment.
Element 3
The development and implementation of regular, effective education and training programs for
all affected employees.
D.

Education and Training
1. CountyCare – Provider MCCN Onboarding and New Employee/Contractor
Orientation
 Reviewed and updated provider onboarding orientation materials to fully
incorporate corporate compliance requirements.
2. Targeted Education
 Reviewed the MCCN Agreement for CountyCare training requirements and
responsibilities and compared training materials submitted by the TPA and
other delegated vendors to ensure compliance.
 Provided regulatory summary regarding updates to 42 CFR Part 2 related
to the disclosure of substance/alcohol abuse records.
 Conducted a “HIPAA for Care Coordinators” and “HIPAA for Customer
Service Members” targeted training for staff who work directly with
members. Educated providers and care coordinators through guidance
documents regarding HIPAA and information sharing for care
coordination purposes. Created additional documents about HIPAA for
care coordination staff who were part of the acquisition of FHN and Aetna
membership.
 Provided guidance to CountyCare employees regarding Power of Attorney
documents and authority.
3. Annual CCH Compliance Education
 Reviewed mandatory CCH training requirement to ensure that CCH
trainings paralleled contractual and regulatory requirements for the health
plan workforce. Identified need to include Critical Incident training for
Page 10

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
CountyCare staff; reviewed classroom training content to validate
contractual requirement was met.
Element 4
The maintenance of a process, such as a hot line, to receive complaints, and the adoption of
procedures to protect the anonymity of complainants and to protect whistleblowers from
retaliation.
E.

Effective Lines of Communication – Receiving and Responding to
Complaints
1. Infrastructure Activities
 Monitored TPA’s support and assistance to CountyCare members through the
TPA’s hotline service. Met weekly with TPA’s compliance staff to discuss
contacts received through the hot line and appropriate follow-up/responses.
 Shared the accessibility of reporting concerns to the CountyCare workforce
through:
o A hotline service by a third party to preserve anonymity if desired;
o A separate toll-free number for privacy breaches.
o Open door policies of both the Compliance Officer assigned to CountyCare
and the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer;
o Two (2) e-mail addresses for Compliance
(compliance@cookcountyhhs.org) and Privacy
(privacy@cookcountyhhs.org).
 Established relationships and engaged internal and external resources to assist
with investigations.
 Identified trends and patterns to mitigate organizational risks and facilitate
operational improvement.
 Presented trends and patterns to the CountyCare Compliance Committee,
CountyCare Executive Committee, Audit & Compliance Committee of the
Board and the Managed Care Committee of the Board.
2. Process for Responding to Contacts and Complaints
Maintained processes for contact, complaint management, and resolution as
follows:
 Investigated allegation;
 Determined the area(s) affected;
 Collaborated with operational leadership and appropriate entities;
 Reviewed and followed contractual obligations, organizational policy, federal,
state, and county regulations related to the incident for mitigation and
remediation;
 Determined and facilitated a resolution which may include a corrective action
plan including education as needed; and
 Responded to the complainant, as appropriate.

Page 11

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
3. Reporting
Categories have been defined to allow CountyCare Compliance to accurately
measure general compliance contacts. The inclusion of a contact in a specific
category does not substantiate the contacts as a concern; rather it classifies the
contact within a defined category. The contacts addressed within the past fiscal
year of CountyCare as a MCCN fell into the following categories:
 Contractual Issues & Reviews
 Regulatory/Policy Matters
 HIPAA Privacy, Confidentiality and Security
 Accurate Books & Records
 Fraud, Waste and Abuse
 Conflict of Interest
 Other (e.g., subpoenas, unique grievance & appeals guidance, involuntary
discharge of CountyCare member, etc.)
4. Fraud, Waste and Abuse
Prevention, detection and elimination of fraud, waste, abuse, and financial
misconduct is a key driver for CountyCare Compliance. Benefit and Program
Integrity is critical not only because it a contractual requirement and a significant
focus by the State and Federal government but because it is the right thing to do.
The impetus of this key initiative is to ensure that federal, state, and county
taxpayer dollars are spent appropriately on delivering quality, necessary care and
preventing fraud, waste, and abuse in addition to protecting health plan members
and providers.
To identify potential fraud, waste, abuse, and financial misconduct, CountyCare
Compliance partners with each delegated vendor through their dedicated areas
commonly known as Special Investigation Units (SIU). The CountyCare
Compliance Officer provides direct oversight of program integrity activity.

Page 12

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
All Program Integrity activity is tracked by State Fiscal Year (S-FY) for state
reporting purposes and not by county fiscal year. The S-FY runs from July 1st
through June 30th.
FWA activity matters are raised through multiple modalities, to each delegated
vendor or directly to Corporate Compliance. All allegations are tracked and
monitored to resolution. In addition, other measures are undertaken through the
SIUs. CountyCare utilizes data mining to identify providers with aberrant billing
patterns and researches tips received from HFS, HFS-OIG, other Managed Care
Organizations (MCOs), healthcare fraud groups, CountyCare employees, the
media and other sources to identify overpayments.
Metrics for the S-FY18 follow:
Reporting
Quarter

Q1 07/01 –
09/30/17
Q2 10/01 –
12/31/17
Q3 01/01 –
03/31/18 *
Q4 04/01
– 06/30/18

Tips

Preliminary
Investigations

Full
Investigations

Referrals to
HFS-OIG

Audits

Overpayments
Identified

Overpayments
Collected

1

11

3

3

3

$

97,910.84

$

2,574.00

2

8

9

1

1

$

201,038.64

$

2,961.36

70

5

15

2

103

$

457,245.29

$

6,097.85

6

5

9

2

57

$ 2,305,959.74

$

28,216.99

* The 3rd Quarter S-FY 18 was significant for CountyCare Compliance. Evolent,
CountyCare’s TPA for medical and behavioral health, hired two (2) local
investigators dedicated solely to program integrity efforts. This dedicated team
partnered with a data analytics firm to review claims for anomalies. The result of
this activity is apparent in the metrics above.
CountyCare Compliance monitored the process to ensure that appropriate action
was taken, including reporting of suspected FWA to the State HFS-OIG.
In S-FY 2018, CountyCare referred 11 cases to the HFS-OIG for possible fraud,
waste or financial misconduct.
5. Total Volume of General Compliance Contacts
In addition to the program integrity efforts above, a total of 125 general compliance
contacts were tracked by CountyCare Compliance during the last fiscal year. This
is a 29% decrease from last year. As noted earlier in this annual report, two (2) of
the three (3) dedicated CountyCare Compliance Program positions were vacant.

Page 13

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
This placed a significant strain on the existing resources from March through
August 2018. CountyCare Compliance had one full-time Compliance Analyst, Cory
Otto. In the interim, Cathy Bodnar, functioned in an operational leadership
capacity and with external resources providing supplemental assistance.
6. Contact Breakdown by Category (December 1, 2017-November 30, 2018)

Categories
HIPAA (Privacy/Security)

47

Conflict of Interest

2

Regulatory/Policy

37

Accurate Books & Records

2

Contracts

27

Human Resources

1

Fraud Waste & Abuse

3

Other

6

With limited resources, CountyCare Compliance focused on contacts and issues
that presented, shifting the balance from proactive to reactive or unanticipated
queries or concerns. Of the 125 CountyCare contacts in FY 18, 40% or 50 contacts,
were proactive. This was a significant decrease
from the previous fiscal year, where 81% of the
contacts were proactive activities that
anticipated possible issues. The gradual return
to a proactive paradigm is anticipated with the
resolution of staffing issues.

Page 14

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
7. HIPAA (Privacy and Security)
As a covered entity, the health plan is required to safeguard privacy for plan
members. Privacy and security of member information is highly regulated, and
this category accounted for 47, or 38% of all contacts handled by compliance.
During FY2018, CountyCare had fifteen (15) HIPAA incidents. None of the
incidents required notifications to members. Twelve (12) of the fifteen (15)
incidents were misdirected communications sent to another covered entity
(another health plan, for example) or business associate (an entity doing business
on behalf of the health plan).
8. Grievances and Appeals Activities
The responsibility for Grievance and Appeals activity transitioned from Corporate
Compliance to CountyCare Operations this fiscal year, specifically to leadership
within Quality and Risk Management. CountyCare Compliance provides highlevel oversight and remains committed to ensuring that contractual and regulatory
timeframes are met, to providing guidance and assistance when necessary, and
participating in the quarterly CountyCare Grievance and Appeals Committee.
Element 5
The development of a system to respond to allegations of improper/illegal activities and the
enforcement of appropriate disciplinary action against employees who have violated internal
compliance policies, applicable statutes, regulations or Federal health care program
requirements.
F.

Enforcing Standards
Broadened the scope of Standards enforcement through:
1.
Fraud, Waste and Abuse Monitoring. As noted earlier in this report,
CountyCare Compliance collaborated closely with the Special Investigation Units
of Delegated Vendors to identify potential fraud, waste, abuse, and financial
misconduct. Towards the end of the county fiscal year, Evolent, CountyCare’s TPA
for medical and behavioral health shifted to a second data analytics firm
recognized for its expertise in DRG auditing and coding analysis.
2.

Privacy and Security (HIPAA) Breach Assessments. As staffing for
CountyCare Compliance stabilized, the area began to assume a greater
responsibility for performing breach assessments. To maintain consistency in the
approach, CountyCare Compliance partnered with CCH Provider Compliance to
review allegations. If a privacy or security breach is validated, CountyCare
Compliance provided remediation guidance to operational areas to minimize
and/or eliminate breaches in the future and, utilized the CCH Sanction Policy and
Personnel Rules, to provide leadership guidance for disciplinary action.
Page 15

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
3.

Investigations Resulting in Employee Related Corrective Actions.
Investigated Conflict of Interest and confidentiality complaints and provided
employee guidance.

4.

Partnerships with Governmental Agencies. CountyCare Compliance
partnered with the HFS, HFS-OIG, and Illinois’ Medicaid Fraud Control Unit
(MFCU).

5.

Partnerships with non-Governmental Agencies. CountyCare Compliance
was invited to participate with a number of new organizations related to the
detection of fraud and wrongdoing in the insurance industry. These nongovernmental organizations include the HealthCare Fraud Prevention Partnership
(HFPP), National Insurance Crime Bureau (NICB), and Midwest Anti-Fraud
Insurance Association (MAIA).

Element 6
The use of audits and/or other evaluation techniques to monitor compliance and assist in the
reduction of identified problem areas.
G.

Auditing and Monitoring
 Fraud, Waste, Abuse and Financial Misconduct
As noted earlier in this report, CountyCare Compliance continued its partnership with
SIUs, meeting regularly to build a robust system to identify potential financial
misconduct, and formed partnerships with governmental and non-governmental
agencies.
 Annual Compliance Attestation
CountyCare Compliance continued to utilize an Annual Compliance Attestation,
issued to all CountyCare’s delegated vendors in April 2018. The Compliance
Attestation required all vendors to attest to several compliance provisions in their
contracts, including distribution of a Code of Ethics, FWA policy distribution, training
and education requirements, sanction screening checks, and delegated oversight. All
of the vendors responded, and one vendor required corrective measures.

H.

Risk Assessment
The focus within CountyCare Compliance is prevention, detection and elimination of
fraud, waste, abuse, and financial misconduct, however other areas of risk relating to
member privacy and security of protected health information were identified in FY18.
These also require ongoing assessment:
 Necessity for updated procedures to terminate employee access to 3rd party
electronic systems upon separation from employment and to monitor current
employee access.
 Disclosure and sharing of member sensitive health information.

Page 16

 Cook County Health
CountyCare Compliance Program
FY 18 ANNUAL REPORT – December 2017 through November 2018
In addition, CountyCare Compliance will initiate an annual risk assessment with executive
leadership and key thought leaders nationally to identify outstanding risks and challenges
to meeting the standards of an effective health plan compliance program.
Element 7
The investigation and remediation of identified systemic problems and the development of
policies addressing the non-employment or retention of sanctioned individuals.
I.

Identification of Systemic Issues
 Sanction Screening Checks
Addressed regulatory requirements to avoid employing, engaging, contracting or
agreeing with any individual or entity that is excluded or “sanctioned” from
participation in a federal or state health care program or who is debarred from
participation in federal procurement or non-procurement programs for the provision
of goods or services through ongoing monthly checks with an external vendor.

IV. Looking Ahead
In FY19 the Corporate Compliance Program will continue to focus on maintaining adherence to
contractual requirements and healthcare compliance best practices as the program matures. As
CountyCare relies heavily on delegated vendors, monitoring for adherence to CountyCare policies,
contractual, and regulatory standards are critical to avoid sanctions. The Program will continue
ongoing activities related to risk reduction in the areas of compliance, policy implementation, and
the development and implementation of monitoring and auditing efforts.
These priorities have been established for the CountyCare Compliance Program:
 Strengthen health plan oversight in the area of fraud, waste and abuse,
o
Foster continued partnerships with HFS-OIG and the State’s MFCU to develop
best practices in Corporate Compliance for CountyCare.
o
Enhance relationships with non-government organizations and other MCOs’ SIUs
to build a network of skilled investigators and increase effective Program Integrity
efforts.
 Continue to investigate all matters brought to the attention of the Program.
 Uphold compliance with contractual requirements and industry best practices as
CountyCare continues as the largest Medicaid Managed Care Organization in Cook
County.
 Foster partnerships with CountyCare Operations and delegated vendors to fulfill
contractual obligations in Program Integrity and state reporting.
 Increase oversight and monitoring for all delegated vendors.
 Serve as a resource to the workforce and delegated vendors.
 Mature the CountyCare Compliance Program and continue to incorporate best practices
to cultivate a culture of compliance throughout the health plan.
 Maintain CountyCare Compliance Program recognition locally and nationally.
Page 17

 