Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, December 14, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (2)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; David
Ernesto Munar; and Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH

Absent:

Director Hon. Jerry Butler (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Finance
and Strategy
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
James Kiamos – Chief Executive Officer, CountyCare

II.

Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Beena Peters, DNP, RN, FACHE – Chief Nursing Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, November 16, 2018
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Chair Reiter, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of November 16, 2018. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
This item was considered concurrently with Agenda Item III(D) Supplemental Contracts and Procurement Items.
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
During the discussion of request number 7, regarding care management real-time alerts and analytics provided by
MHNU Corporation, Director Driscoll requested that a report be provided in the near future on where the patients
are receiving care and how the contract is assisting CCHHS.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, December 14, 2018
Page 2

III. Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
With regard to request number 19, Director Richardson-Lowry inquired regarding the contract savings of 2-4%,
as reflected on the transmittal; she said that savings sounds low. Douglas Elwell, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
of Finance and Strategy, responded that this only reflects additional savings over the prior contract, and does not
reflect the total savings. Director Richardson-Lowry requested that information on the total contract savings be
provided to the Committee through the Chair.
During the discussion of request number 22, Chair Reiter inquired whether the administration is making sure that
the vendor is paying their employees within area standards and using local workers to perform the work. Mr.
Jones responded that he will find out and report back to the Committee.
With regard to request number 23, Mr. Jones noted that the request will be amended to a reduced amount of
$1,375,000; further negotiations took place following the issuance of the transmittal, which resulted in the lower
contract amount.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Chair Reiter, moved the approval of
request numbers 1 through 23, subject to completion of review by Contract
Compliance, where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chair Reiter noted his comments regarding request number 22; he reminded the
administration to make sure that the vendor is using local workers and paying
area standards.

C. Any items listed under Section III

D. Supplemental Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #2)
This item was considered concurrently with Agenda Item III(B) Contracts and Procurement Items.

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. 4th Quarter FY2018 Report of Purchases made under the authority of the Chief Executive Officer
(Attachment #3)
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the report. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
B. Report of emergency purchases (Attachment #4)
Mr. Jones reviewed information on the three (3) emergency purchases that were recently made. It was noted
that there is an error on the emergency purchase for valet services with Metropolitan 1. It erroneously lists
that they will provide staffing of operating room nurses and technicians; they will only be providing valet
services.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, December 14, 2018
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #5)
 Metrics
 Financials through October 2018
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the information contained in the report. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The Committee discussed the observation listed on slide 6 of the report that deliveries are down by 14%. Dr.
John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, indicated that the administration is currently working on strategies to
increase the number of deliveries in the coming year; he added that this subject will be thoroughly discussed in
the upcoming strategic planning meetings. Director Richardson-Lowry stated that the System is uniquely
positioned to be impactful; she encourages the administration to look for ways to improve. Additionally, she
forecasted a position that she will take with respect to the strategic plan, that it ought to be addressed in that plan
in a substantive way.

VI.

Closed Meeting Item
A. Discussion of real-estate related matter
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Chair Reiter, moved to recess the
open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following
exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(5), regarding
“the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the public body, including
meetings held for the purpose of discussing whether a particular parcel should
be acquired.”
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed into
a closed meeting.
Chair Reiter declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, December 14, 2018
Page 4

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Regarding request number 7, a request was made for a report in the near future on where the
patients are receiving care and how the contract is assisting CCHHS. Page 1

Request:

Regarding request number 19, a request was made for information on the total contract savings.
Page 2

Follow-up:

Regarding request number 22, a request was made for information on whether the vendor is
paying their employees within area standards and using local workers to perform the work. Page
2

 