Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Thursday, April 18, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and Directors David Ernesto Munar and
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (3)
Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Ada Mary Gugenheim; and Mike Koetting;

Absent:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Director Hon. Dr. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Jarrod Johnson, MBA, NHA, FACHE – Chief Operating
Officer, Stroger Hospital and Central Campus
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Terry Mason, MD – Cook County Department of Public
Health
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Leticia Reyes-Nash – Director of Programmatic Services
and Innovation
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Robert Sumter, PhD, FACHE – Chief Information Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, March 22, 2019
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Munar, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of March 22, 2019. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)

Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The following individuals provided additional information: Leticia Reyes-Nash,
Director of Programmatic Services and Innovation; Terry Mason, MD, Chief Operating Officer, Cook County
Department of Public Health; and Robert Sumter, PhD, FACHE, Chief Information Officer. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the requests.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)

The Committee discussed request number 1, which is a grant award for the Cook County Health Start Initiative.
This initiative aims to help eliminate health disparities in Cook County by providing case management support for
African American women aged 20-35 at risk for poor birth outcomes, along with their infants and father/partner
in the targeted project area. In response to a question regarding outcome measures, Ms. Reyes-Nash indicated
that she will provide a copy of the performance monitoring of the grant that is reported monthly to the Health
Resources and Services Administration at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Director
Richardson-Lowry stated that, while she supports the notion of the grant’s purpose, she cautioned that, as this is
the third largest county health system in the nation, with one of the largest populations in this affected area, the
grant funding is a small amount comparatively. Leveraging that funding will be a business imperative; she is
hoping to hear through strategic planning and other avenues how these and other resources will be leveraged. The
problem is clearly systemic, but this organization is in the best position, perhaps more than any other hospital
system in the City, to address this. She is looking for something bigger, broader, comprehensive and systemic,
that engages every aspect of this system.
Director Munar, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved the approval of
request numbers 1 through 18, subject to completion of review by Contract
Compliance, where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Any items listed under Section III

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Report of emergency purchases
There were none reported.

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #2)
•
•

Metrics
Financials: February 2019

Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the finance metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
VI. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion:
•

Capital Equipment (Attachment #3)

Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the presentation, which included information on the following subjects:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 3

VI. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion (continued)
Impact 2020 Updates
− Definitions
− CCH trends Net Capital Assets, Additions and Depreciation Expenses
− Cook County Real Estate Asset Strategic Alignment Plan (REASRP)
− Capital Assets Purchases FY2016 – 2018
− Sources of Financing - Capital Assets Purchases FY2016 – 2018
− FY2019 Capital Planning Priorities
− FY 2019 Planned Capital Expenses
FY2020-2022 Environmental Scan
− Top Issues Confronting Hospitals
− Top Financial Challenges Facing Hospitals
− 2019 Credit Agencies Outlook and Common Themes
− FY2020 Capital Budget Planning Process
− FY2020-2022 Potential Funding Sources
Additional information was provided by Mr. Akpan regarding the financing of capital equipment through the
County’s capital plan. The County programs CCH needs into their bond issuance and, through the economies of
scale and engaging the bond industry as the County of Cook, CCH gets their financing rate within the 4-5% range.
That rate is definitely better than that using other financing vehicles. Irrespective of how the County funds CCH,
that debt ultimately comes to CCH books as a charge. Going forward, increasingly CCH uses its operational
dollars to buy capital equipment. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, noted that CCH used to be the
beneficiary of a separate capital budget line approved by the County Board; it was given to CCH parallel to its
operating budget. That capital budget line in 2015, but it used to be a substantial source of funding.
Director Richardson-Lowry inquired regarding the outlook/comments referenced from the credit rating agency
Standard & Poor’s; she inquired whether their outlook ever deviated for not-for-profits. Mr. Akpan responded that
he will check and provide the response through the Chair.
•

Diagnostic / Specialty Services (Attachment #4)

Jarrod Johnson, MBA, NHA, FACHE, Chief Operating Officer of Stroger Hospital and Central Campus, provided
an overview of the presentation, which included information on the following subjects:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Overview of Departments
Organizational Chart
Impact 2020 Update – Status and Results
FY2020-2022: The Future – Environmental Scan of Market, Best Practices and Trends
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
FY2020-2022 Future Recommendations
Appendices

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Thursday, April 18, 2019
Page 4

VI. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion (continued)
Following the review and discussion of the information, Director Richardson-Lowry stated for the record that, as
Stroger Hospital has been perceived as the hub for the System, she is encouraging a little more substance and
detail to be built into this with respect to the plan, and more alignment from a strategic planning standpoint. From
an operational imperative standpoint, typically there are connecting points, and there is a series of cascades
associated with those connecting points; then it leads to what is happening with respect to how Stroger Hospital is
relating to nursing, clinical, and other areas. Additionally, as an operational imperative, there is always going to
be a financial impact, so that information should be included. Director Driscoll indicated that she is interested in
seeing information on how CCH is planning to grow its diagnostic services - how they will be designed, which
services will be chosen, and where they will be located.
VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Hammock declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Acting Chair
Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Follow-up / Requests:
Follow-up:

A copy of recent performance monitoring relating to the grant award for the Cook County Health
Start Initiative (request number 1 under Contracts and Procurement Items) will be provided to the
Committee. Page 2

Follow-up:

Information relating to a historical perspective on Standard & Poor’s outlook/comments on notfor-profits was requested. Page 3

 