Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE. Commissioner/Secmtary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN. Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of EiectiOfi Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
March 26,2019,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street,8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chair

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Joan T. Agnew, Deputy Counsel
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager - Human Resources
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Amanda Robledo, Acting Purchasing Agent

Bill Perez, Coordinator - Hispanic Outreach
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Trupti Patei
Rachel Brown, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:33 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was approved as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:

A.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 14, 2019
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the February 14, 2019
Regular Board Meeting. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion
and the Minutes were approved by 3:0 vote of the Board.

8.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of February 19, 2019
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602•312-269-7900 •TTV 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com •cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting - March 26,2019

Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the February 19, 2019
Special Board Meeting. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion
and the Minutes were approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported:

• We have one-hundred percent of the polling places signed up. There are 17 polling
places that have changed since February. Investigators will go out the day before the
election and post notices. Not ail are one-hundred percent ADA (Americans with
Disabilities Act) compliant, but we will be conducting the ADA survey

• Communications Director Jim Allen is sending out press releases regarding the polling
place changes.

• We have already sent out mailings to the voters in the precincts where the polling
places have changed since the last election.

• After this election we would like to consolidate about 500 polling places before 2020.
This will have major impact on our budget, especially with new equipment and with
ADA compliance.

• Today we received only 459 online Vote by Mail(VBM)requests; a very low number
for the week before an election. The deadline is Thursday at 5 p.m. Mr. Gough was at

the supersite at 175 W.Washington with Rev. Jackson (Operation PUSH) yesterday,
and there were very few voters there at that time.

• Return on VBM:3,625 yesterday. Just over 10,000 total returned. Mr. Gough will
speak with Communications Director Jim Allen about sending a reminder email to
those whom we have mailed ballots, but have not returned the ballot.

• Voting was conducted for pre-trial detainees at 26^^ and California. A total of434 city
voters and 89 county voters applied for ballots. Under the new law, which appears
likely to be enacted,those in pre-trial detention will use voting machines at the
detention centers. Currently, like last Saturday, our staff had to go to all of the tiers at
the jail.

A.

Assistant Executive Director

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported:

• Election Supply Carriers(ESC) have yet to be delivered to the precinct polling
places in seven wards.

• 300 precincts are scheduled for the day before the election for ESC deliveries.
• Currently we have 61 Standby Election Coordinators.

• There are 93 precincts with less than 3 assigned judges at this time.

• The total number voting at Early Voting sites, as of last night, was 50,571.
Page 2 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - March 26,2019

Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• 501 voted via Grace Period. Of those, 246 were new registrations and 255
were change of address.

• Early Voting at the University sites starts today. They will be open from 7 a.m.
until 7 pm this week.

• Nursing Home voting will take place March 29th, March 30*"^ and Monday
April 1®*. There are 88 homes participating.

• Thursday we will conduct the public test of central office equipment

• Election Coordinators will pick-up supplies this Wednesday and Thursday.
• The "Key Judges" will pick up packets(including the Election Supply Carrier
key) this Friday at 69 W.Washington or on Saturday at their designated Early
Voting sites from 9 a.m.-4 p.m.

• The Remote Site employees have been trained, and receiving station training
Is scheduled.
Communications Director

Communications Director Jim Allen reported:

• We will be providing to the media age and ward level statistics. Total Early
Voting is presently higher than in February 2019, but lower than in April 2015;
conversely. Vote by Mall is lower than In February 2019, but higher than 2015
April.

• Early Voting legal notices are being published in English as well as Spanish,
Chinese, Hindi and Polish.

• The 8-page legal notice of polling places is going to be published and Is also
multi-lingual.

• We will be doing more regarding the changed polling places.

VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: we will return to
discussing this after the election.

B.

Electronic Poll Books- we are currently finishing up Pre-LAT.

C.
D.

Voting Equipment: we will return to discussing this after the election.
Legislation
General Counsel Adam Lasker reported:

• Most bills that we are tracking are meandering through committees.

• Legislation which contains provisions for pre-trial detainee voting had its
second reading In the Senate. Mr. Lasker is concerned about some of the
Items of this bill-e.g., If a detainee requested a ballot, but then refuses to

vote, the refusal must be witnessed by a poll watcher/poli worker.This would
require either bringing the detainee down to the polls(where he/she does not
Page 3 of5

 Regular Board Meeting - March 26.2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

want to go) or having the poll workers/watchers go up to tier. Mr. Lasker is
concerned about the Board's liability. Further, there is the question of
whether we will have to send poll watchers to the cells.
VII.

New Business

A.

Amendment to contract with Arrow Messenger Service Inc. for messenger and
driver services for the 2019 general and runoff elections.
Mr. Lasker explained that this is merely to memorialize the rates for election
specific services that are not part of the City's contract under which we are
subcontracting with Arrow.

Commissioner Swain asked for clarification: As we are "piggy-backing" on the
City's contract, and our pricing is based on that agreement,why can't we just use
their pricing? Mr. Lasker stated that we want to memorialize the subcontract
under the City's contract.

Mr. Lasker also pointed out that we still have a vacancy in the Board's

Procurement Agent position, and that we had to work off of the prior Purchasing
Agent's memos that showed that we had been using the City's pricing. Arrow's
owner/president Ms. Applebaum clarified how the rates were applied using City
rates for the elections, but that the City does not need certain services that we

require {e.g., delivery of Election Equipment or driving Election Day
Investigators). Mr. Lasker recommends that the subcontract, rates and election
services be memorialized. He stated that it would be best for the Board to include
the rates that are not under the City's sister-agency agreement. Mr. Lasker wants
to follow best practices with such subcontracts.
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the amendment to the contract with
Arrow Messenger Service, Inc. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The

motion and amendment were approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Amendment to contract with Lake County Press Inc. for ballot printing services for
the 2019 general and runoff elections.

This matter was discussed at last meeting, but no action was taken as a change
had to be made due to a miscalculation.

The original agreement was for all 3 elections, November 2018-April 2019. The
calculation adjustments are only for the two 2019 elections.
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the Amendment to the contract with
Lake County Press Inc. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion
passed with a 3:0 vote of the Board.
Vill.

Legal Report
General Counsel Adam Lasker reported:

• Arguments in re Acevedo vs. Cook County is scheduled for Friday March 29*^ In the LI.S.

Court of Appeals for the 7^^ Circuit. This case is a challenge to the countywide signature
Page 4 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting - March 26.2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

requirement. Recently, this Board, acting as an Electoral Board, ruled on a challenge to
the Citywide signature requirements; we were upheld in court In that case. Mr. Lasker
does not expect any change in the countywide requirements, but is interested in what
the Court has to say in this matter.

• Commissioner Swain inquired as to what are we doing about the reports of irregularities
in Vote by Mail applications. Mr. Lasker responded that as a general Board practice we do
not discuss such pending investigations, but we do assign additional resources and extra

Investigators to those areas where we have concerns on Election Day. We are also
working with our Internal Investigations Department and also with Law Enforcement
agencies.

• We will have the cybersecurity monitoring desk set up at Election Central for this

election,just as we had during the last election. It will be monitoring for possible
infrastructure and data incursion. Mr. Gough added that we are working with the FBI and
the Department of Homeland Security and that everything is in place.
IX.

Financial Report; none

X.

Public Comment: none

XI.

Executive Session: Commissioner Kresse moved to enter Executive Session to discuss

pending litigation. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed
unanimously.The Board entered closed Executive Session at 9:54 a.m.
The Board, with Commissioner Swain now absent, returned from closed executive

session, and open session resumed at 10:50 a.m. The Chair reported that no action was
taken during executive session.

XII.

Adjournment: The Chair moved to adjourn until the Special Meeting on April 2, 2019 at
7:00 a.m. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion passed by 2:0 vote of
the Board. The meeting adjourned at 10:50 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissioiw William J. Kresse

Secretar\^

Page 5 of5

 