Alton James @it? at Btr? it Brenda (3055 Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis

Lauren Hood, MCD Damion Ellis
Vice Chair'Sccretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza AIA LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory 
R. T?dda .lr. Detroit, Michigan 43226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 May Webb

e?mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING

The City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13'? ?oor of the
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, on

THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider a request for a PD (Planned Development) Modi?cation from Fusco, Shaffer Pappas, Inc. on the
behalf of its client, NSO Properties, by amending Ordinance No. 12-17 which amended Article XVII, District
Map 12 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning, on land bounded on the north by Mack Ave, on the
east by Ellery St., on the south by Ludden St. and on the west by Elmwood Ave. The subject property is indicated
on the accompanying map.

The proposed PD modi?cation would modify the previously approved site plans and facilitate the new
construction of a shelter, transitional housing and supportive services center with outdoor recreation and garden
space. The development would consist of two two-story buildings resulting in a change of character and lot
coverage from the previously approved site plans.

The zoning district is generally de?ned by the Zoning Ordinance as follows:

PD - PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly useful in urban
renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord with the goals and objectives
of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that corresponds to the most general category of land use,
which are Residential, Public-"Civic-"Institutional, Manufacturing and
Industrial, and Other, proposed in the Master Plan for the area involved. Such planned developments shall
provide a desirable environment for the uses proposed and shall not be out of harmony with their general
surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to accomplish this by permitting ?exibility in
overall development while ensuring adequate safeguards and standards for public health, safety,
convenience, and general welfare and, where applicable, encouraging historic preservation.

The proposed modi?cation is being considered by the City Planning Commission in accordance with the
provisions of Article 111, Division 4 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance. A PD rezoning requires the approval of
the City Council after a public hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning
Commission.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to represent you, or
by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX:
Because it is possible that some who are affected by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it
is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services at public
meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please contact the Civil

Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity at 313-224-4950, through the TTY number 71], or
email c?o?c?detroitmigov to schedule these services.

PROPOSED PD MODIFICATION

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.
LF 

ML of; 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?33113

. 

1
a
.

~1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l'

