301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
April 23, 2019 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Jorge Ramirez, Secretary/Treasurer; Dr. Sonat Birnecker Hart;
Roger J. Kiley; Don Villar; Sherman Wright

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer; David Winters, Chief Operations Officer;
David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons, Acting General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of
Procurement; Pat Allen, Directorof Labor Relations; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Stephanie Lovelace-
Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager,
Community Engagement and Special Events; Molly Kievit Senior Director of Campus Sales; Tiffany Petties, Business
Diversity Program Manager; Jeanette Swan, Director of Internal Audit; Gloria Juarbe, Director of Human Resources;
Samantha K. Johnson, Assistant Controller; Lisa Nelson, Project Coordinator; Nicol Chervenak, Director of Planning
and Program Management; Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Doug Bradley, Savor; Scott Winterroth,
SMG/McCormick Place; Rufus Purnell, Resident; McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Aleks
Granchalek, Fifth Third; William Mack, Morgan Stanley; Jill Jaworski, Patrick Sier, Resident; Maria Calderon,
CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

Chairman Hart welcomed new board member, Sherman Wright.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the March 19, 2019.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Birnecker Hart, and the remaining members present
voted approving item A2.

A3. Election of Vice-Chairman.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A3.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey introduced Mr. Simmons as Acting General Counsel and Ms. Kievit as Senior Director
of Campus Sales. Ms. Healey stated Choose Chicago hosted their annual meeting in the McCormick Place - West
Building.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results for March 2019 and the tax collections for March 2019.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton stated Star Wars Celebration the Ultimate Fan Experience had 35,000
attendees over ?ve days on campus. Mr. Causton presented a video recapping the Star Wars event. Mr. Causton
stated the vast majority of attendees stayed at the Hyatt Regency McCormick Place and Marriott Marquis Chicago
hotels to be as close as possible to the event. Mr. Causton stated Star Wars was owned by Disney and 
produced the event on campus. Mr. Causton stated also produced Chicago Comic Entertainment Expo
(02E2), and recently announced ten new events, three of them will be produced in Chicago. Mr. Causton stated the


June 6,2019

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom. 5?h Floor
Chicago, lL 60616

other events on campus during the Star Wars event were the Black Women's Expo and the Kasparov Chess
Foundation, Renaissance Knights Chess Foundation at Hyatt Regency McCormick Place. Mayor-Elect Lightfoot was
present for the Black Women's Expo ribbon cutting. Mr. Causton stated the 2019 Adidas Windy City National Qualifier
hosted their volleyball event on campus with 887 teams. Mr. Causton stated the following shows will host their events
on campus: the National Catholic Educational Association American Urological Association; HOW Design
Live 2019; Chicago Neighborhood Development Awards; National Restaurant Association, 100th Anniversary; 2019
Sweets Snacks Expo; and American Society Of Clinical Oncology.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1 and
securities and investments. Upon motion duly made by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Villar, and the
remaining members present unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1. Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the March 19, 2019 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Birnecker Hart, and the remaining members present
voted approving item C1.

D1. Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Guaranteed Energy Performance Contract.

Moved by Member Birnecker Hart, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D1.

D2. Consideration of Approval of Ordinance No. MPEA 19-01 - Authorizing the Financing of Energy
Conservation Measures and Related Capital Improvements to Buildings and Facilities of the
Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority.

Moved by Member Villar, seconded by Member Birnecker Hart, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

D3. Consideration of Approval of Financial Plan FY 2020, 2021, and 2022.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Birnecker Hart, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D3.

D4. Consideration of Approval of the Minority and Women Owned Business Procurement Report, First
Quarter Fiscal Year 2019.

Moved by Member Birnecker Hart, seconded by Member Villar, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D4.


June 6,2019

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616
Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Villar, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

{/13

A

 

 

Approved: June 6, 2019 Secretary


June 6,2019

