Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE. Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH,Executive Director

Board of Eleciioo Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes ofSpecial Board Meeting

Tuesday, April 2,2019
7:00 a.m.

Room 800, Office of the Chair
69 West Washington Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602

7:02 a.m. session
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chair

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary [absent at 7:02a.m.session]
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Jim Allen, Communications Director

Rachel Brown, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests: none

I.

Call to Order 7:02 a.m.(Commissioner Kresse was absent for the first session)

II.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented

III.

Election Day

A.

Possible removal of judges of election: none as of 7:02 a.m.

B.
Possible court actions, including to address late polling place openings: General
Counsel Adam Lasker reported that we are monitoring several polling places, so far it
appears in all cases where a polling place may have opened late, we will not need to have
the polling place remain open past 7 PM as the voters affected could stay; we are
confirming, and may have to take action later.

IV.

Public Comment: none (at the 7:02 a.m. session)

V.
Recess: Chair moved to recess until the call of the Chair. Commissioner Swain seconded
the motion. The motion passed by 2:0 vote of the Board. The Board recessed 7:04 am
69 West Washington Street. Suites 600/800. Chicago IL 60602•312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com•cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Special Board Meeting -April 2,2019
Chicago Board of Bection Commissioners

11:20a.m.sessbn

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chair
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Rachel Brown, Videographer
Trupti PateI, Law Clerk
Trish Sheehy
Guests: none

VI.

Call to Order: The Chair reconvened the meeting at 11:20 a.m. All members were

present.

VII.

Election Day issues. Election Day
A.
Possible removal of Judges of Election:

Law Clerk Trupti Patel presented the following requests to remove Judges of
Election for cause. In each case the Board had received complaints, Board
Investigators were dispatched to the relevant polling place, and Investigators
submitted reports; in some cases Board Investigators remained on site:

1.

Precinct 11 of Ward 3: Democratic Judge Ora Milsap -was reportedly

belligerent and used inappropriate language. She was also uncooperative. This
appears to be a pattern; this behavior was shown at a previous election. She had
been reported for similar behavior in November 2018, but was not removed at
that time. Commissioner Swain moved to Order the Removal of Ora Milsap as

Judge of Election. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion passed
by unanimous vote of the Board. Notice and Order of Removal was signed In open
session.

2.
Precincts? Ward 3: Republican Judge Nicholas M. Ashford,Jr. reportedly
arrived late to his designated polling place, was disruptive, was unable to perform
his duties as a Judge of Election, and intimidated the other poll workers at the
polling place. It was reported that he appeared to be in an impaired state.
Commissioner Kresse moved to Order the Removal of Nicholas M.Ashford, Jr. as
a Judge of Election. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was

passed by 3:0 vote of the Board.The Notice and Order of Removal was signed In
open session.
Page 2of5

 Special Board Meeting - April 2,2019
Chicago Board of Section Coinmlssloners

B.

Polling Place late openings: There will be no need for a court order to have any

polling place remain open for voting after 7:00. At the few polling places that were late
setting up. Election Coordinators and Investigators spoke with ail of the voters who

would have to leave before the polling places were set up. The Election Coordinators or
Investigators either obtained contact information for these voters or received assurances
that they would be able to get back to the polling place by 7:00 PM. Ms. Patel, Mr.
Lasker and others called the voters for whom contact Information was obtained and
found that all such voters stated that they will return before 7:00 PM.
VIII.

Public comment: None

IX.

Recess: Commissioner Swain moved to recess until the call of the Chair. Commissioner

Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous vote. The meeting was
recessed at 11:28 a.m.

7:11 p.m.session
Board Members:

Ma rise I A. Hernandez, Chair
William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Peter Allen, VIdeographer
Trupti Patel, Law Clerk
Trish Sheehy
Guests:

Judd Ryan, ES&S
Justin Priest, ES&S

X.

Call to Order:The Chair reconvened the meeting at 7:11 p.m. All members were present.

XI.

Election Day issues. Election Day
A.

Polling Place late openings:

Since the last session there was a fire In the vicinity of one of our polling places.
However,it appears that this should not Interfere with voting at this polling place.
B.

Possible removal of Judges of Election:

Law Clerk Trupti Patel presented the following requests to remove Judges of
Election for cause. In each case the Board had received complaints. Board
Page 3 of5

 special Board Meeting -April 2,2019
Chicago Board of Section Commissioners

Investigators were dispatched to the relevant polling place, and Investigators
submitted reports; In some cases Board Investigators remained on site::

1.
Precinct 27 of Ward 27: Republican Judge Darryl House was reportedly
found sleeping at the polling place, with several attempts to waken him being
futile. When Mr. House did awaken he reportedly was belligerent and disruptive,
was seen knocking things over and spilling things on the table, and then
proceeded to use Inappropriate language, lash out at everyone present, and

refused to perform his duties as a Judge of Election. Mr. House reportedly
voluntarily left the site. A motion to Order the Removal of Darryl House as a Judge
of Election was made by Commissioner Kresse. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion.The Board voted unanimously to approve the motion.The Notice and
Order of Removal was signed In open session.

2.
Precinct 26 of Ward 29: Republican Judge of Election Billy Molden has
reportedly demonstrated a pattern of misconduct during the last two elections
and today;the Board received complaints regarding Mr. Molden from voters and
fellow judges over these three elections periods. Mr. Molder reportedly acted In
ways that violated the code of conduct for Election Judges Including, but not
limited to, repeatedly marketing his personal business by passing out his personal
business cards to voters at the polling place; repeatedly using his personal cell
phone Instead of performing his duties as a Judge (which caused voters to believe
that he was recording them); and, refusing to cooperate with fellow Judges and
other poll workers. A motion to Order the Removal of Billy Molden as a Judge of
Election was made by Commissioner Kresse. Commissioner Swain seconded the
motion.The Board voted unanimously to approve the motion.The Notice and
Order of Removal was signed In open session.

3.
Precinct 44 Ward 2: Republican Judge of Election Carl Lane reportedly
appeared to be asleep at the desk, and at one point had to be restrained by fellow
Judges when he began yelling at a voter who had asked him for assistance. Mr.
Lane reportedly followed a voter to the voter's car and held onto the car door In a

manner that caused concern for the safety of the children In the building next
door. Additionally, he reportedly proceeded to sit in the polling place with his
headphones on and neglect his duties as Judge of Election. Commissioner Swain
made a motion to Order the Removal of Carl Lane as a Judge of Election.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion carried by a 3:0 vote. The
Notice and Order of Removal was signed In open session.
Mr. Lasker stated that there Is one more Judge of Election Removal, but that the

case was still being processed,and may be dealt with at the next Board Meeting.
As the polls are now closed, and the Judge of Election In question has already left
the polling place, there is no need to address it this evening.

Page4 of5

 special Board Meeting - April 2,2019
Chicago Board of Bectlon Commissioners

VI.

Adjourn: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn the Special Board Meeting.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The Board voted unanimously to adjourn.The
meeting was adjourned at 7:20 p.m.

Submitted,

Commiss03er William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page5 of5

 