Commissioners

MARiSEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN,Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Electkxt Commissiooers

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meetir^
April 9, 2019,9:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street,Bth Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday [absent]
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Bill Perez, Hispanic Outreach Coordinator
Sarita Villlarreal, Consultant

Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Trupti Patel
Rachel Brown, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
Sandy Hed, Election Works
Adam L. Scheffler

Mark Brown, Sun-Times

Carol Maher, self
MaryLou Jelachich, self

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:31 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present

III.

Consideration of /^enda: Agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:

A.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 26, 2019: Commissioner Swain moved
to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 26, 2019.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Minutes were
approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602•312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoeIections.com•cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoEiection

 Regular Board Meeting -April 9,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

April 2 was another successful election. The turnout,as of the 6*'' of the month [Note: There is
still time to receive and process Vote by Mail ballots per statutory deadlines] was 32.94%.Some
were predicting the turnout would be lower.

All of the processes worked very well. We had 98% of the precincts reporting by 11:27 p.m.
election night and we were at 100% by 5:00 o'clock on April S'**.
We have completed the Obvious Discrepancies processing.
Yesterday the precinct by precinct canvass was completed.

We are still processing returned Vote by Mail ballots. As of yesterday we had 49,897 ballots
returned,a 84% return rate {we had 82% return in February).
Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday is presently at the warehouse with the 5% test. He
did an excellentjob this election.

Polling Place payments,along with Election Coordinators and Judges of Election payrolls should
be done,or will be shortly.

Provisional Ballots documentation is being reviewed.

We are working on finishing the updating of voter history for both recent elections.

We have 1800 Election Supply Carriers(ESCs) back in to the warehouse already. The cartage
companies did a really good job.

There were so many people that did an excellentjob, that Mr. Gough was concerned if he started
naming people he might miss someone. As such, he will give a written report to the Board.

The staff did an excellentjob especially with the short turnaround between elections to get the
ballots printed, get the ballots delivered and get the ballots to the public; it was a monumental
task

We are hoping to reduce the number of precincts and polling places by 500 before the next
election. We will then do a canvass mailing to notify affected voters of the changes.

To reduce the number of precincts we wiil look at the number of voters on a block-by-block basis
to determine where we can redraw the lines and we will also look at the geography. Mr.Gough
has spoken with some elected officials and will meet with more.They are in favor of the

reduction because they know how difficult it Is to locate polling places and find enough Judges of
Election. Along with redrawing precinct lines, we are looking to consolidate polling places. As an
example, we currently have a polling place that has 4 precincts in it; if we consolidate the

precincts, we will only have 2 precincts to staff at that site with equipmentfor just 2 precincts
rather than 4.

Another reason for reducing the number of polling places is the need to have ADA compliant
polling places. While we are working with the Department of Justice to extend our settlement

agreement until 2022, we will need to get rid of polling places that are non-compliant as we can
no longer use them under the terms of the settlement agreement.

Mr. Lasker pointed out that the cost of polling places and Judges of Elections are expensive.
Reducing them will both save the Board money and help with the ADA project.

Mr. Gough also hopes to pay the Judges of Election minimum wage for the next election;
something that we are not doing that right now. Reducing the number of precincts will reduce
the number of Judges of Election needed.
Page 2 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting -April 9,2019
Chicago Board of Bection Commissioners

Mr. Lasker pointed out that the State of Illinois has a smaller population to precinct requirement
than other jurisdictions.

Mr. Gough also pointed out that with the increase in Vote by Mail and Early Voting,fewer voters
are going to precinct polling places on Election Day.

The Chair thanked Mr. Gough, Communications Director Jim Allen, Charles Holiday, Mr. Lasker and the
entire staff on behalf of the Board. It has been nonstop work since the November 2018 election.

The Chair further noted that the people of Chicago have faith in us; we're transparent, and this is one of

the best things that we as a Board can give to the City of Chicago. The Chair added that she is very proud
to be the Chair of this Board and very proud of those she had mentioned and the entire staff.

Mr. Gough thanked the Board members for their support, without which none of this would have

happened. Mr. Gough noted that having served more than 30 years, he has seen many Boards and
wanted to commend this particular Board.

A.

Assistant Executive Director [Charles Holiday was absent]

B.

Communications Director

Communications Director Jim Alien reported as follows:

Projects moving forward:

Mr. Alien is working with the Board's IT department to find a new web hosting
vendor, after which we will convert to the ".gov" domain.
We are going to work with the Vote by Mail Department to streamline the user
experience for the online application process.

As Mr. Gough had mentioned, we will have other projects, including canvass
mailing to every voter, along with some other initiatives such as working with the
City to pursue some legislative changes.

Discussion ensued regarding obtaining more voter email addresses. Mr. Alien pointed out
that younger voters tend to include email addresses on their registration applications.
We are getting many email addresses through on-line Vote by Mail applications. Other
methods are being considered Commissioner Kresse suggested that we continue to
considering alternative methods and discuss further in the future.

There was also discussion that as a result of Automatic Voter Registration (AVR)we have
more voters on the roils and more votes, but the percentage turnout appears lower
because the roils are larger. As such,turnout percentage will be an issue in the future.
Vi.

Old Business

A.

infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: Mr. Gough will be
addressing this and new voting equipment shortly.

B.

Electronic Poll Books:The e-poli books worked well this election.

C.

Voting Equipment: We are currently working on that.

D.

Legislation: General Counsel Lasker reported:

• Of the bills in Springfield that we have been tracking the only one that has had any movement is
the one related to the Open Meetings Act(OMA).This bill would allow executive sessions to

discuss employment matters relative to independent contractors (currently can only discuss
Page 3 of 5

 Regular Board Meeting -April 9,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

relative to employees). This has passed the Senate and the House but has been sent back to the
House for consideration with amendments.

• Other bills. Including the bill regarding voting by pre-trial detainees are still in committee.(The
pre-trial detainee bill Is up for its 3^*^ reading in the House.)
VII.

New Business

A.

Removal of Judge of Election - Precinct 45 Ward 8, Republican Judge Celeste Mosley:
Board Law Clerk Trupti Patel presented to the Board a request for an Order of Removal of
Judge of Election Celeste Mosley for cause. Ms. Mosley was assigned to Precinct 45 of
Ward 8 as a Republican Judge of Election. Reports were received by Election Central on
election day of Ms. Mosley's misconduct toward fellow Judges and derelictions of her

duties as a Judge of Election. A Board Investigator was dispatched, and the Investigator
submitted a report. It was reported to the Board that the situation with Ms. Mosely

escalated to the point where Ms. Mosely threatened to bring a knife to the polling place,
additionally she reportedly took a swing at another Judge of Election causing a laceration.
The Chicago Police Department was called in on this matter. Mr. Lasker further explained
that the Board's Investigator remained on site at the polling place until the CPD (It is
standard procedure to have the Chicago Police handle such matters as it allows our
Investigators to handle other calls on Election Day.

Commissioner Kresse moved to remove Celeste Mosley as a Judge of Election.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was approved by unanimous vote
of the Board. The Board signed the Notice and Order of Removal of Judge of Election
Celeste Mosley in open session.
VIII.

Legal Report
General Counsel Adam Lasker reported as follows:

The Board was served with five different election contests in three different wards. Specifically,
there were cross-contests(were both candidates filed) in the 46*^ Ward and the 33'^^ Ward,and In
the 5*'' Ward candidate William Calloway filed.
This is nothing extraordinary in the pleadings.

Mr. Lasker noted that the revised Illinois Cities and Villages acts require that aldermanic
candidates file pleadings for an election contest within 5 days of the election; the contest
pleadings are filed with the Circuit Court. Mr. Lasker also reported thatfor all other offices within

the state, a party who wishes to contest the results of the election has 30 days following the
proclamation to file a contest. Moreover,there is a procedure called a "discovery recount," and a
party may not file for a discovery recount until after the proclamation.
Additionally, one of the contesting candidates is challenging the constitutionality of this statute as
It applies to aldermanic candidates. This has been forwarded to the Attorney General's office as It
cites the equal election clause of the state constitution, as well as the U.S. constitution.
IX.

Financial Report: none

X.

Public Comment

Mary Lou Jelachlch spoke on the topic of Election Suggestions,specifically:
• Ms.Jelachlch noted that she has served as a Judge of Election in the 39*'' ward and works a lot
with the electronic poll books (epoll books).

Page 4 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -April 9,2019
Chicago Board of Eiection Commissioners

• Ms.Jeiachich, noting that voters' signatures change over time, inquired about possible means of
updating the signatures of record. Specifically she asked whether more recent signatures from
state identification cards/drivers licenses could be used to update voter signatures. Mr. Lasker
pointed out that the law requires the Board to use the voter registration signature. Additionaiiy
both Mr. Alien and Mr. Lasker pointed out that the Illinois Secretary of State's office does not
have access to the digitized signatures.
The Chair thanked Ms.Jeiachich for her participation and her comments.
Xi.

Executive Session: none

Xii.
Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next Regular Board Meeting of
April 23^'' at 8:00 a.m. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The Board voted 3:0 to adjourn.The
meeting was adjourned at 10:02 a.m.
Submitted,

Com missiptipr William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page5 of 5

 