Alton James @it? at it Brenda 0055 Andrews

Chairperson Llsa Whitmorc Davis

. . . Damion W. Ellis
VICC Chair-Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION D?Vid ESPIITZII, AIA, LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Mun1c1pal Center Gregory 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224?4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: 

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole
Room l3lh Floor of the Coleman A. Youn Munici a] Center 2 Woodward Avenue Detroit

Michigan 48226 on

 

THURSDAY. JUNE 20. 2019 AT 5:15 PM

to consider the proposal of Henry Ford Health Systems to amend Article XVII, District Map No.
7 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a PD (Planned Development)
zoning classi?cation where an R3 (Low Density Residential) zoning classi?cation currently exists
on 26 parcels generally bounded by Pallister Street, John C. Lodge Freeway, Seward Street and
Poe Street. The location of the preposed rezoning is speci?cally indicated on the accompanying
map.

The change is being proposed to allow for the construction of a new Parking Garage (7 levels,
2121 vehicle spaces, 12 shuttle bus spaces).

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

R3 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

This district is designed as a low-density multi-family district. The regulations are designed
to promote and encourage town and terrace house development, courts, and garden
apartments. It is intended that this district be used primarily on local thoroughfares thereby
encouraging a suitable environment for family life. Among others, uses permitted by right
include single and two-family dwellings, town houses, multi-family dwellings, and
community facilities necessary to serve a residential district.

PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly
useful in urban renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord
with the goals and objectives of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that
corresponds to the most general category of land use, which are Residential,
Retailt'ServicetCommercial, Manufacturing and Industrial, and
Other, proposed in the Master Plan for the area involved. Such planned deveIOpments shall
provide a desirable environment for the uses proposed and shall not be out of harmony with
their general surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to accomplish this
by permitting ?exibility in overall development while ensuring adequate safeguards and
standards for public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare and, where applicable,
encouraging historic preservation.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing: Two Woodward Avenue, Room
208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (email: Because it is possible that some who
are affected by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform
your neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313)224-4950, through the
TTY number 71], or email crio@detroitmi.aov to schedule these services.

For additional information concerning this proposal or the scheduled hearing, please call
313-224-6225Fists-s -.
VIRGINIA PARK ST?341.3AVE SEWARD AVEE
PALLISTER ST. 502
PALLISTE
a3 as as
AVE 
I I:

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Rezoning from R3 to PD

