 

Mayor’s Pedestrian

AdvisoryCouncil Meeting
Minutes

  
Date:

May 8, 2019

Time:

3:00 pm- 4:30 pm

Co-Chairs: Rebekah Scheinfeld, CDOT
Adam Becker, CLOCC
MPAC Members in Attendance
Name

Department/Agency

Name

Department/Agency

Kate McMahon

CDPH

Dr. Karen Sheehan

Lurie Children’s Hospital

Greg Piland

FHWA

Margarita Reina

CDPH

Mary Rosenberg

Access Living

David Smith

CDOT

Rebekah Scheinfeld

CDOT

Sean Wiedel

CDOT

Ann Cibulskis

CDPH

Kyle Whitehead

Active Transportation Alliance

Adam Becker

CLOCC

Proceedings
Meeting called to order at 3:07 pm by Chair Scheinfeld
February MPAC meeting minutes were approved.

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

Pedestrian Crash Fatality Update –
a)​ Up to this date, nine people have been killed while walking. This is the lowest count of year to date
pedestrian fatalities since 2013. ​b)​ Seven of the nine pedestrians killed were walking along High Crash
Corridors or in High Crash Areas. ​c)​ 50% of pedestrians were hit by an SUV or large vehicle. ​d)​ All drivers
involved in crashes were 50 years old or younger, while the majority of victims are older Chicagoans
(>50years old).

Chair Scheinfeld

City Updates a) Vision Zero​ - Next Vision Zero Steering Committee is May 15th. After this meeting, the steering
committee will change to a biannual meeting schedule, to meet again in the fall. An Operations
Group comprised of City Agencies will begin meeting monthly in June. Advocacy and nonprofit VZ
partners will be supported to form a VZ advocacy group. The VZ Annual Report, VZ Downtown Plan
and VZ West Side Plan will all be released later in May and June.
b) Pedestrian Improvement Projects ​- Ten projects have been completed and ongoing to date; for a list
of these projects, visit chicagocompletestreets.org. The 35th & State Green Line project will connect
with IIT, creating a pedestrian plaza. The 55th & Hyde Park project will include road resurfacing,
protected bike lanes, improved ped crossings with curb extensions. The Polk project will include a
two-way protected bike lane. All the upcoming projects will incorporate ped safety. Improvements
along California & 21st have been greatly supported by the Marshall Resource Network. CDOT is
meeting with all new Aldermen. The Fatal Crash Review Committee meets every month; one of the
committee’s projects is to generate an email to update Aldermen about fatalities & serious injuries
taking place in their wards.
c) Chicago Mobility Update​- Chicago’s Micromobility Legislation passed City Council on April 10, 2019.
These devices have the same rights and responsibilities as bicycles and are considered legal means
of transportation. Low-speed Electric Mobility Devices, (LEMDs) are not allowed in sidewalks. No one
is allowed on sidewalks in business districts per municipal code. Chicago’s e-bike regulations are the
same or stricter than other States. CDOT will explore collaborating with CDPH to collect information
on injuries and visits to the ER due to LEMDs’ related injuries.
The scooter pilot will extend in a very defined area. It will last 4 months with 2,500 total scooters on the ground
starting on June 15 in the West Side. Scooters will require geofencing technology. Operating window
will be from 5 am to 10 pm with scooters removed from the public way every night. CDOT is
conducting briefings with every Aldermen, SSA, Chamber of Commerce and stakeholders in the pilot
area. Companies are expected to collect data to provide live information to the City.

Sarah Powers

David Smith

Sean Wiedel

  

Mayor’s Pedestrian

AdvisoryCouncil Meeting
Minutes

Agenda and Notes
Topic

Facilitated by

MPAC Updates and Next Steps a) CDPH Seed Grants - focused on walkability assessments and quick tactical improvements. Grantees
will collaborate with Elevated / CMAP / CDOT. Improvements and assessments target CTA transit
stops.
b) Membership Update - Chairs and CDOT staff identified currently active council members. We
currently have seven sectors represented in the council. MPAC recruitment process for new
members will focus on representatives from community-organizations. Organizations receiving Seed
Grants will be invited to participate as MPAC members.
c) Terms or Reference - A draft of the Terms will be shared with council members for review and
additional feedback prior to finalizing the document.
d) Site Visits Overview - Both MBAC & MPAC will be scheduling site visits to allow council members
and the public to gain a better understanding of different initiatives and projects. We will also help
create a more action-oriented agenda. Both councils are coordinating visits to Big Marsh and El
Paseo this summer.

Kate McMahan
Adam Becker

Actions

Lead

Confirm and schedule site visits

Romina Castillo

Public Comment & Announcements
a)
b)
c)

Ride of Silence - scheduled for May 15. Meeting at Daley Plaza at 6 pm. Looking for someone to lead a walk.
Bike the Drive will take place during Memorial Day weekend on May 26th. Active Transportation Alliance is still looking for
volunteers for the day.
Every Day Counts Initiative by the Federal Highway Administration is launching STEP (Safe Transportation for Every
Pedestrian). This is a systematic application of cost-effective countermeasures with known safety benefits to reduce fatalities
and serious injuries. For more information visit: ​fhwa.dot.gov/innovation/everydaycounts/edc_5/step2.cfm

Adjournment at 4:30 pm

 