 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers? Compensation

12:45 PM
Wednesday, May 22, 2019 Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: S. Morrison, Britton, Degnen and K. Morrison (4)
Absent: Johnson 
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman S. Morrison asked the Secretary to the Board to call Upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen
Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner K. Morrison, moved that the Workers?
Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending

Workers? Compensation. The motion carried.

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner K. Morrison, moved Approval of the
cases over $25,000.00. The motion carried.

19-3630
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/23i?20 i 9.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to approve
19-3630. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: S. Morrison, Britten, Degnen and K. Morrison (4)
Absent: Johnson (I)

l. SETTLEMENTS AND DECISIONS

PASHA
06 WC 27109

JACKSON, CAROLYN
16 WC 34356

18 WC 37925

KUERSTEN. ALEXANDRA
15 WC 30096

15 WC 30097

MANNONE, SALVATORE
14 WC 08050

OLLE, JIMMY
13 WC 08904

Petitioner injured her left hand and sustained a laceration from a
razor wire when she was climbing down the ladder, lost her
balance and grabbed a wire for support with her left hand.

Vice-Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approvai. The motion carried.

Petitioner allegedly injured her left shoulder, face and lower back
While subduing a combative detainee.

Petitioner allegedly injured both knees when she entered the bull
pen to subdue two detainees and slipped on a food item on the
floor.

Vice-Chairman Britten seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured her right shoulder, while attempting to prohibit
combative residents from ?ghting.

Petitioner injured her right shoulder, while restraining a
combative detainee.

Vice-Chairman Britten seconded by Commissioner K.

Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner suffered injuries to his left shoulder while attempting to
subdue and handcuff a subject.

Vice-Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner suffered injuries to his foot from a motor vehicle
accident.

Vice?Chairman Britten seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

RICHARD, WILLIAM
17 WC 3751 

RIVERA, MIGUEL
12 WC 33350

SAPP ROBERT



08 WC 10564

11 WC 43956

SKOCZ, EDWARD
11 WC 13409

SMITH, MARK
l7 WC 31882

Petitioner injured his left leg when he tripped and fell while
assisting a wheelchair bound inmate off the lift of a van.

Vice-Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured his neck and le? shoulder while assisting in
securing several detainees who were fighting.

Vice~Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured his neck, lower back, left hip and left knee in a
motor vehicle accident in which he was broadsided while
responding to a call.

Petitioner sustained additional injury when he fell during a
lockdown practice drill.

Vice?Chairman Britten seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner allegedly injured his head, neck and back, and sustained
a stroke, while ?eeing a ?re at the warehouse at 23 23 S. Rockwell,
Chicago, 

Vice-Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

Petitioner injured his left shoulder restraining a combative.

VicevChairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.


18 WC 13546 Petitioner injured her left shoulder when She tripped over an
extension cord and fell while conducting a lecture.

Vice-Chairman Britton seconded by Commissioner K.
Morrison moved Approval. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Johnson, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: S. Morrison, Britton, Degnen, and K. Morrison (4)
Absent: Johnson 

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

