Standard Use Agreement Form

This video gaming terminal use agreement, hereinafter referred to as the ?agreement,? is entered

 

 

 

 

 

into on this day of 20?, and is made by and between
IGB License Number (the ?terminal

operator?) and d/b/a

and located at IGB

License Number (the ?video gaming location?), collectively referred to

 

as ?the parties.?

 
    
  

De?nitions: Terms used in this agreement shall have the me asc ibed to them by the
video gaming law or this agreement. ?Video gaming law? ed to include the Video
Gaming Act (Act), rules adopted thereunder, and the River Act and rules adopted
thereunder that are made applicable to video gaming by i t. Throughout this
agreement, the word ?shall? is used in a mandatory 3 .

Licensing: As of the effective date of this an - .. the te ual operator a

licensed under the Act, and the establishment af?rms 't . used video location
under the Act. This agreement is not enforceable if eith - is not licensed at the time of
execution.

license . eo gaming location it shall
- I Is as provided by this use
reason . - efforts and in compliance with

Placement: The terminal operator agrees
install, maintain, and service
agreement and a payout - sing come
the video gaming law.

   

  
  
   
 
 

Duration: This agree. . effect on and shall remain in effect
until '0 . - n' greement be in effect longer than eight years.
The agree lly rene . its expiration date.

No - 'es ex acknowledge that nothing of value of any type was
offered ucem or incentive for entering into this agreement, or for

this agreement.

Hold harmless . ne parties agree to indemnify and hold harmless the State of
Illinois, the Illinois 5 Board and its agents relative to any cause of action arising from this
agreement.

Limitation on assignments by terminal operator: The terminal operator shall not assign this
agreement to any person or entity other than another terminal operator licensed under the Act.

Release of licensed video gaming location from contractual obligations: The licensed video
gaming location shall be released from any continuing contractual obligation to the terminal
operator in the event that the terminal operator has its license revoked, denied, suspended, has its
renewal denied, or surrenders its license.

Signing and dating of agreement: The terminal operator, licensed Video gaming location and
the person or persons who acted as sales agent or broker for this agreement, or otherwise
solicited business from the licensed video gaming location on behalf of the terminal operator,
shall sign and date this agreement in the signature section provided below.

Additional provisions or amendments: Any alterations, provisions, or amendments to this Use
Agreement may be deemed valid only if they are consistent with and not contrary to the
provisions of the Stande Use Agreement Form, or any provision in the video gaming law.

Installation of video gaming terminals: The video gaming terminal all be installed,

  
  
  
 
   
   

in the video gaming law.

Disputes: The terminal operator and licensed video cknowledge that the
Illinois Gaming Board has authority to resolve dispute orceability of this

Sales Agent, Broker or other
Solicitor of Business

 

 

 

 

or other solicitors of business shall be printed, signed,

