th
May 8
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM: Commenced at 10:00 AM.
AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (5/8/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.
ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Andre
Youngblood, Kevin Irvine, Robert Patterson, Johnny Miller, and Alejandro Silva
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION: Deferred

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
April 10
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with seven yes votes.

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board convened into Executive Session, pursuant to Section 2-C (subse
and 5) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act.

Upon re-convening from executive session, the Board took up the four executive session agenda it

Chairman Peterson first asked for consideration of Board Agenda Item # 5-A. After a brief present
by General Counsel Karen Seimetz, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve an
authorizing the acquisition of a construction easement and a taken parcel on property located at 4
North Clifton Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, for the Red and Purple Modernization Project. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with seven yes votes.

Chairman Peterson next asked for consideration of three items discussed in executive session: Bo
Agenda Item # 5-B, an ordinance authorizing execution of a collective bargaining agreement cont
the terms of a tentative agreement with the Craft Coalition of Trade Unions; Board Agenda Item #
an ordinance authorizing execution of a collective bargaining agreement containing the ter
tentative agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 134 (Yardmast
and Board Agenda Item # 5-D, an ordinance authorizing execution of a collective bargaining agree
containing the terms of a tentative agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Wor
Local 134 (Rail Janitor Coordinators). After a brief presentation on these three items by General C
Karen Seimetz, Chairman Peterson called for three separate motions to approve each ordinance, e
motion was seconded individually, and each motion was approved separately, with seven yes vote

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee Chairman Kevin
presented the report. The committee deferred the February and April, 2019 committee minutes.
Irvine then stated that Board Agenda item # 6-A was presented, discussed, reviewed, plac
omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Chairman Silva presented the report. The commi
th
reviewed the monthly (May) report on Finance, and approved
, the
2019
April
committee
10
meeting

 minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Committee Age
were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approv
Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Directors Irvine and S
After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with seven yes votes.
All approved May 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-38 through 019-47.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (May 2019), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, 2019
theChicago
May 8
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 