DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF THE
REGULAR COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 2019 -- 5:00 PM
AT DEGC OFFICES
500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200
DETROIT, MI
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
PRESENT:

COMMITTEE MEMBERS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Rick Blocker
Kamal Cheeks
Simone Sagovac
Allen Rawls
Dr. Regina Randall

Michelle Lee
Brad Lutz
Rico Razo
Sandra Stahl
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Danny Samson (Sterling Group)
Emery Matthews (Real Estate Interests LLC)
Tom Wackerman (ASTI Environmental)
Elie Torgow (Sterling Group)
Donnell White (Chemical Bank)
Sean O’Brien (Chemical Bank)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)

 Call to Order
Mr. Rawls, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 5:09 p.m.
General
Approval of Minutes
Mr. Rawls called for approval of the minutes of the March 13, 2019 (resolution) DBRA-CAC
meeting. The Committee took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Blocker, seconded by Dr. Randall, DBRA-CAC Resolution Code 1905-02-139, approving the March 13, 2019 CAC minutes, as presented, was unanimously
approved.
Projects
Brownfield Plan for Chemical Bank Headquarters
Mr. Vosburg introduced the Brownfield Plan for Chemical Bank Headquarters to the CAC
members present.
Project Introduction
GPC Adams, LLC, a Sterling Group affiliate on behalf of Chemical Bank, is the project developer
(the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the demolition of the current ten-story building in order
to facilitate construction of Chemical Bank’s new headquarters. The building will be approximately
twenty stories tall and will include ground-level commercial space with ten stories of parking and
nine office stories. Chemical Bank will occupy six to seven stories within the building and plans to
expand into the remaining floors or lease to other office tenants. The ground floor is proposed to
house a bank branch and/or an additional retail tenant.
The total construction costs are estimated to be $71 million. The Developer is requesting
$37,096,150.00 in TIF reimbursement, however only $16,700,793.00 in TIF Reimbursement is
projected to be captured for the life of the Plan.
There will be 380 temporary construction jobs and 300 FTE jobs. The 380 temporary construction
jobs are expected to be created over a 2-year period once construction begins. The 300 FTE jobs
may include the relocation of existing Chemical Bank employees to the City of Detroit.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of two (2) parcels located in Detroit’s Central
Business District, bounded by West Elizabeth Street to the North, Woodward Avenue to the East,
an alley to the South, and the property line of 44-48 West Adams to the West.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the
Property was is currently utilized for a commercial purpose; (b) it is located within the City of
Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to

 be functionally obsolete and/or is adjacent and contiguous to a functionally obsolete property as
defined by Act 381.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible
activities” as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include pre-approved activities, demolition
and asbestos abatement, site preparation activities, infrastructure activities, and the preparation
and implementation of a brownfield plan and 381 work plan. The eligible activities and budgeted
costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the
Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan
and be completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the
eligible activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a
Reimbursement Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Assessments
2. Demolition
3. Lead and Asbestos Activities
4. Infrastructure Improvements
5. Site Preparation
6. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan
7. Cost Tracking Compliance
8. Contingency (15%)
*Total Reimbursement to Developer
9. Authority Administrative Costs
10. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
11. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$5,000.00
$2,070,368.00
$121,550.00
$29,299,299.00
$709,783.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$4,830,150.00
$37,096,150.00
$2,575,372.00
$1,821,662.00
$0.00
$41,493,184.00

*Developer is only projecting to receive $16,700,493 in TIF Reimbursement
The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for
reimbursement from tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by
the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of
Commercial Rehabilitation Act (CRA) PA 210 Tax Abatement.
Attached for your review and approval are three (3) resolutions: 1.) a resolution supporting the
Plan in the event the Committee does not deem it necessary to conduct a CAC public hearing
and 2.) a resolution authorizing a public hearing in the project area and 3.) a resolution authorizing
a public hearing in the project area and to appoint up to two special CAC members. The public
hearing may be held jointly with any public hearing conducted by the Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority.

 Mr. Torgow provided more detail on the changes to the Plan and why Sterling Group is now the
Developer for the Plan.
Mr. O’Brien stated that the Developer has selected Neumann/Smith as the architect for the Project
and The Colasanti Group with MiG Construction as a Joint Venture as the General Contractor for
the Project.
Ms. Sagovac asked if the Developer has engaged with the businesses surrounding the Project.
Mr. O’Brien stated that the Developer has received ten letters of support for the Project from
businesses in the area.
Ms. Sagovac asked how many parking spaces are included in the Project. Mr. O’Brien stated that
there will be approximately 300 parking spaces included in the Project.
Mr. Rawls asked if there are any environmentally friendly features included in the Project. Mr.
O’Brien stated that the Project will not seek LEED certification, but there will be significant green
features of the Project including high-efficiency lighting, light timers, and occupancy sensors for
both lighting and the HVAC system to mention just the lighting and HVAC features. Mr. Rawls
stated that it is apparent just from that list that environmentally friendly features will be a significant
Mr. Blocker asked if the Project is part of the Little Caesars development. Mr. O’Brien stated that
the Project is separate from the Little Caesars development.
Mr. Blocker asked what kind of jobs are included in the 300 FTE jobs to be created by the Project.
Mr. O’Brien stated that the 300 FTE jobs will be a variety of positions, but a large percentage will
be bank management positions.
Mr. Cheeks asked why there is a difference between the amount of TIF being requested and the
amount of TIF projected for the Project. Mr. Vosburg stated that the amount of TIF being projected
is dependent upon the tax assessments for the Property, the requested tax abatement will affect
the amount of TIF generated by the Project, and the eligible expenses exceed the amount of TIF
projected for the Project.
Mr. Rawls asked what the Developer has done to reach out to Detroit-based businesses for the
Project. Mr. O’Brien stated that the Developer has worked with the D2D program and held a
meeting which was attended by approximately 150 people. The Developer has also stressed to
its General Contractor the need for Detroit-based businesses to be a part of the project.
Mr. Rawls asked if the Project is subject to the City of Detroit Executive Orders. Mr. Vosburg
confirmed that the Project is subject to the City of Detroit Executive Orders.
Mr. Rawls called for a motion recommending approval of the Brownfield Plan for Chemical Bank
Headquarters.
Mr. Blocker motioned to recommend approval of the Brownfield Plan for Chemical Bank
Headquarters without a CAC public hearing and without appointing special members. Mr.
Cheeks seconded the motion. DBRA-CAC Resolution Code 19-05-265-01,
recommending approval of the Brownfield Plan for Chemical Bank Headquarters was
unanimously approved.
Second Amended and Restated Brownfield Plan for 3750 & 3800 Woodward

 Ms. Kanalos introduced the Second Amended and Restated Brownfield Plan for 3750 & 3800
Woodward to the CAC members present.
Project Introduction
3750 Woodward Avenue, LLC, is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan Amendment
which includes two parcels located at 3750 and 3800 Woodward Avenue. The Plan Amendment
includes the completed rehabilitation of a 12-story structure for residential and commercial use
(The Plaza), located on the parcel with the address 3800 Woodward Avenue. No additional
redevelopment is anticipated for this parcel.
The project to be completed at 3750 Woodward Avenue will include the construction of a hotel,
housing units targeted toward students, multi-family housing, 100,000 square feet of commercial
space, public space and a 700-space parking structure. The hotel will include approximately 225
rooms. The residential component will include 180 multi-family units of which 36 will be affordable,
198 housing units targeted toward students, and 60 condominiums. It is anticipated that 1,300
temporary construction jobs and 400 permanent FTE jobs will be created as a result of this project.
Total investment is estimated to be $320M. The developer is seeking $58M in tax increment
financing (TIF) reimbursement for eligible activities under the Plan Amendment.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of two (2) parcels located at 3750 and 3800
Woodward Avenue generally East Alexandrine Street to the north, John R Road to the east, Mack
Avenue to the south and Woodward Avenue to west in Detroit’s Midtown district.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the
Property was is currently utilized for a commercial purpose; (b) it is located within the City of
Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property subject to the Plan
Amendment is determined to be a facility in accordance to Part 201 of Act 451.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible
activities” as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include demolition, lead and asbestos
abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation, baseline environmental assessment,
due care activities, additional response activities and brownfield plan and work plan preparation
and implementation. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the
development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not
responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities are
estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the
eligible activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a
Reimbursement Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF

 The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for
reimbursement from tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by
the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives including a commercial rehabilitation act
abatement (PA 210) and a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ).
Attached for your review and approval are three (3) resolutions: 1.) a resolution supporting the
Plan in the event the Committee does not deem it necessary to conduct a CAC public hearing
and 2.) a resolution authorizing a public hearing in the project area and 3.) a resolution authorizing
a public hearing in the project area and to appoint up to two special CAC members. The public
hearing may be held jointly with any public hearing conducted by the Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority.
Mr. Matthews provided additional information about the project.
Mr. Blocker asked if the condominium units in the Project will be for sale and where they will be
located in the development. Mr. Matthews stated that the condominium units will be for sale and
that 60 units will be located above the planned hotel and 150 units will be located in the back of
the development.
Dr. Randall asked if there has been support from the community for the Project. Ms. Kanalos
stated that the Project is subject to the Community Benefits Ordinance (CBO) and that there will
be a Community Benefits Agreement proposed to the Neighborhood Advisory Committee at the

 end of the CBO process. Mr. Matthews stated that well before the CBO process started, the
development team has been talking to numerous neighborhood groups about the project.
Mr. Rawls asked who has been attending the CBO meetings. Mr. Matthews stated that the
members of the Neighborhood Advisory Committee and many other members of the community
have been attending the CBO meetings.
Mr. Cheeks asked if the green roofs in the renderings will be part of the Project and why there
isn’t as much greenery in the public areas included in the Project. Mr. Matthews stated that the
green roofs will be included in the Project, but due to high volume of use in the ground level
public areas, grass is not an option.
Mr. Cheeks asked if only one level of parking underground will be sufficient for the Project. Mr.
Matthews stated that there will be a significant amount of above-ground parking as part of the
Project and that only one level of underground parking is planned due to the high cost of
constructing underground parking.
Mr. Rawls asked how the Project plans to manage storm water. Mr. Matthews stated that there
will be storm water retention and processing features included in the Project to handle the storm
water before it is released into the DWSD system.
Mr. Rawls asked who the architects and engineers are for the Project. Mr. Matthews stated that
the master architect for the Project is In Form Design and the architect for the hotel is DLR Group,
Walsh Group is the pre-construction manager, Rockford Construction is the development
manager, and the construction manager has not yet been selected. Mr. Matthews also stated that
the Developer will comply with the City of Detroit Executive Orders and will be proactively reaching
out to Detroit-based contractors.
Mr. Rawls asked which hotel flag will be included in the Project. Mr. Matthews stated that he is
not able to announce which hotel flag will be included in the Project. It will be a boutique brand
with a parent company that everyone will recognize.
Mr. Rawls asked what the sale price for the condominium units will be. Mr. Matthews stated that
the condominium units will be priced at $650 per square foot and the rental units will be priced at
$2.50 per square foot for the market rate units and below $2.00 per square foot for the affordable
housing units. Mr. Matthews also stated that the co-living units will have private bedrooms and
bathrooms, but will share a common space with some units priced to 60% AMI
Mr. Cheeks asked what kind of jobs are to be included in the projected 400 FTE jobs for the
Project. Mr. Matthews stated that approximately 200 FTE jobs will be in connection with the hotel,
5-6 FTE jobs will be in connection with the residential units, and the remainder of the FTE jobs
will be in connection with the planned retail space.
Mr. Rawls asked if there will be a restaurant in the planned hotel. Mr. Matthews confirmed that a
restaurant is planned to be included in the hotel and that the retail space is expected to include a
mix of sit-down and casual restaurant spaces as well as some convenience retail options including
a grocery store for the residents and surrounding community.
Ms. Sagovac asked if the community has asked for anything in addition to the public space
included in the Project. Mr. Matthews stated that the community has requested green space to be
included in the Project as well as some of the commercial space to be reserved for local small

 businesses. The Developer is currently waiting for the formal requests from the Neighborhood
Advisory Committee as part of the CBO process for more details on what is desired by the
neighborhood and what could be supported by the Development.
Mr. Rawls called for a motion recommending approval of the Second Amended and Restated
Brownfield Plan for 3750 & 3800 Woodward.
Mr. Cheeks motioned to recommend approval of the Second Amended and Restated
Brownfield Plan for 3750 & 3800 Woodward without a CAC public hearing and without
appointing special members. Mr. Blocker seconded the motion. DBRA-CAC Resolution
Code 19-05-197-03, recommending approval of the Second Amended and Restated
Brownfield Plan for 3750 & 3800 Woodward was unanimously approved.
Administrative
Ms. Kanalos informed the committee that staff training has begun for the new cloud-based agenda
and program. Staff will be working over the next few weeks to learn about the program and
determine the best way to post the agenda and book to the new program. There will be training
lasting about 15 minutes at a future meeting.
Other
None.
Public Comment
None.
Adjournment
Citing no further business, Mr. Rawls adjourned meeting at 6:02 PM.

 CODE DBRA CAC 19-05-02-139
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MARCH 13, 2019
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of March 13, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the members present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Community Advisory
Committee of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

May 8, 2019

 CODE DBRA-CAC 19-05-265-01
CHEMICAL BANK BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in
the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381, the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted the proposed Brownfield Plan for the Chemical Bank Project (the “Plan”) to the
Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee, at its January 9, 2019 meeting, received,
evaluated and considered the proposed Plan; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of the resolution establishing the DBRA and the
bylaws of the DBRA, the Community Advisory Committee desires to make recommendations to the DBRA
and the Detroit City Council on the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. After consideration of the proposed Plan, the Community Advisory Committee makes the following
comment and recommendations on the proposed Plan:
a. The Community Advisory Committee has determined that it is appropriate for the achievement
of the purposes of Act 381 of the DBRA to adopt an Brownfield Plan for the Chemical Bank
Brownfield Redevelopment Project.
b. The Community Advisory Committee recommends support of the proposed Plan presented to
it.
2. The Chairperson of the Community Advisory Committee is authorized and directed to transmit a copy
of this Resolution and the minutes of the public hearing on the proposed Plan and of the meeting at
which this Resolution was adopted to the DBRA and the Detroit City Council as the report of the findings
and recommendations of the Community Advisory Committee on the proposed Plan.
3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this resolution are
rescinded.

May 8, 2019

 CODE DBRA-CAC 19-05-197-03
SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED 3750 & 3800 WOODWARD BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT
PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in
the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381, the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted the proposed Brownfield Plan for the Chemical Bank Project (the “Plan”) to the
Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee, at its May 8, 2019 meeting, received, evaluated
and considered the proposed Plan; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of the resolution establishing the DBRA and the
bylaws of the DBRA, the Community Advisory Committee desires to make recommendations to the DBRA
and the Detroit City Council on the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. After consideration of the proposed Plan, the Community Advisory Committee makes the following
comment and recommendations on the proposed Plan:
a. The Community Advisory Committee has determined that it is appropriate for the achievement
of the purposes of Act 381 of the DBRA to adopt a Second Amended and Restated Brownfield
Plan for the 3750 & 3800 Woodward Brownfield Redevelopment Project.
b. The Community Advisory Committee recommends support of the proposed Plan presented to
it.
2. The Chairperson of the Community Advisory Committee is authorized and directed to transmit a copy
of this Resolution and the minutes of the public hearing on the proposed Plan and of the meeting at
which this Resolution was adopted to the DBRA and the Detroit City Council as the report of the findings
and recommendations of the Community Advisory Committee on the proposed Plan.
3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this resolution are
rescinded.

May 8, 2019

 