Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, June 5, 2019

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
No Public Speakers
19-3845
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 05/22/2019
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Daley, to approve 19-3845. The
motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
19-3602

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), JOHN P. DALEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO
RULES CONCERNING CREATION
OF COMMISSIONS, TASK FORCES AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the

Cook

AND

County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,

AUTHORITY

Administration,

 Rules and Administration Committee
Article 3, County Board, Division 2,
hereby amended as Follows:

Committee Minutes
Rules of Organization and Procedure,

June 5, 2019
Sections 2-71 and 2-112 are

Sec. 2-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in Article III, County Board of the Cook County Code, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section.
(a) Board or County Board means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(b) Clerk means the Clerk of the County Board, appointed by the County Clerk.
(c) Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed Cook County Board Commissioner, and means the
same as "member" of the Board.

Commission means any commission, task force, advisory committee authorized by the Cook County Board pursuant
to Sec. 2-112 to address an issue of concern to the County relevant to a Standing Committee, but shall not include the Human
Rights Commission, the Economic Development Advisory Committee, the Justice Advisory Council, Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center Advisory Board, or other Commissions that are authorized to be permanent in nature.
(d) Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special committee and a
standing or special subcommittee of a committee.

(e)
division.

Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by this

(f) Majority means a simple majority of those Commissioners present and entitled to vote on a
question.
(g) Majority of those elected means a majority of the total number of Commissioners entitled by law to be elected
to the Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed Commissioners actually serving in office. So long as
17 Commissioners are entitled to be elected to the Board, a vote of a "majority of those elected" shall mean nine
affirmative votes.
(h) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which a higher
majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those Commissioners entitled to
vote. A vote of "present" shall not be counted in determining the number of Commissioners voting on a question.

(i) President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(j) Quorum means a majority of those elected (nine Commissioners when board is comprised of 17

Page 2 of 7

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

June 5, 2019

members) shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Board or a meeting of a committee of the whole.
A majority of Commissioners appointed to any committee, other
than a committee of the whole, shall
constitute a quorum for a meeting of such committee or subcommittee.
(k) Secretary means the Secretary to the Board, duly appointed by the President.
Standing Committee means the standing committees provided in Sec. 2-109(i).
(l) Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the Commissioners.

****
Sec. 2-112. Commissions
(a) Effective in FY 2019 and each year thereafter, the County Board shall have the authority by ordinance or
resolution to create Commissions to address issues related or relevant to a Standing Committee of the County Board.
(b) The Chair or Vice-Chair of the applicable Standing Committee relevant to the Commission must serve as
the Chair of the Commission.
(c) Commissions shall be temporary in nature and shall not exceed 12 months in duration unless otherwise
approved by the Board.
(d) Commissions shall be staffed by the Chair of the Commission with existing resources .
(e) Commissions shall issue their reports or findings to the applicable Standing Committee.
(f) The authorizing ordinance or resolution for a Commission shall explicitly state:
(1) The purpose for which the Commission is being created;
(2) The Standing Committee to which the Commission is applicable;
(3) The number of members of the Commission and method by which they will be selected or appointed.

(4) The Chair or Vice-Chair of the applicable Standing Committee shall be the Chair of the Commission;

(5) The date by which the work of the Commission will be completed, which shall not exceed 12 months in
duration.

Page 3 of 7

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

June 5, 2019

(6) The length of service of the members of the Commission;
(7) The frequency the Commission shall meet which shall not be more than one time per month;
(8) That meetings of the Commission will be open to the public and comply with the requirements of the
Open Meetings Act and Freedom of Information Act;
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to accept as amended 19-3602.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
19-3602

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), JOHN P. DALEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners

.title
THIS PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO FILE 19-3602 REPLACES ANY PREVIOUS AMENDMENT
(Rules & Administration Committee 06/05/2019 at 1:46pm)
Sponsored by: DONNA MILLER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO RULES CONCERNING CREATION AND AUTHORITY
OF COMMISSIONS, TASK FORCES AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Administration, Article 3, County
Board, Division 2, Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sections 2-71 and 2-112 are hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 2-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in Article III, County Board of the Cook County Code, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section.
Board or County Board means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Clerk means the Clerk of the County Board, appointed by the County Clerk.
Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed Cook County Board Commissioner, and means the same as
"member" of the Board.

Page 4 of 7

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

June 5, 2019

Commission means any commission, task force, advisory committee authorized by the Cook County Board pursuant to
Sec. 2-112 to address an issue of concern to the County relevant to a Standing Committee, but shall not include the
Human Rights Commission, the Economic Development Advisory Committee, the Justice Advisory Council, Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board, or other Commissions that are authorized to be permanent in nature.
Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special committee and a standing or
special subcommittee of a committee.
Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by this division.
Majority means a simple majority of those Commissioners present and entitled to vote on a question.
Majority of those elected means a majority of the total number of Commissioners entitled by law to be elected to the
Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed Commissioners actually serving in office. So long as 17
Commissioners are entitled to be elected to the Board, a vote of a "majority of those elected" shall mean nine
affirmative votes.
Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which a higher majority is
required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those Commissioners entitled to vote. A vote of
"present" shall not be counted in determining the number of Commissioners voting on a question.
President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
Quorum means a majority of those elected (nine Commissioners when board is comprised of 17 members) shall
constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Board or a meeting of a committee of the whole. A majority of
Commissioners appointed to any committee, other than a committee of the whole, shall constitute a quorum for a
meeting of such committee or subcommittee.
Secretary means the Secretary to the Board, duly appointed by the President.
Standing Committee means the standing committees provided in Sec. 2-109(i).
Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the Commissioners

****
Sec. 2-112. Commissions
(a) Effective in FY 2019 and each year thereafter, the The County Board shall have the authority
by ordinance or resolution to create Commissions to address issues related or relevant to a
Standing Committee of the County Board.

Page 5 of 7

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

June 5, 2019

(b) The Chair or Vice-Chair of the applicable Standing Committee relevant to the Commission
must serve as the Chair of the Commission.
(c) Commissions shall be temporary in nature and shall not exceed 12 months in duration
unless otherwise approved by the Board.
(d) Commissions shall be staffed by the Chair of the Commission with existing resources.
(e) Other than Commissioners and County employees, Commission members may not serve on more than

one Commission with concurrent terms.
(ef) Commissions shall issue their reports or findings to the applicable Standing Committee.
(fg) The authorizing ordinance or resolution for a Commission shall explicitly state:
(1) The purpose for which the Commission is being created;
(2) The Standing Committee to which the Commission is applicable;
(3) The number of members of the Commission and method by which they will be selected or appointed.
(4) The Chair or Vice-Chair of the applicable Standing Committee shall be the Chair of the Commission;
(5) The date by which the work of the Commission will be completed, which shall not exceed 12 months in
duration, unless otherwise approved by the County Board.
(6) The length of service of the members of the Commission;
(7) The frequency the Commission shall meet which shall not be more than one time per month;
(8) That meetings of the Commission will be open to the public and comply with the requirements of the
Open Meetings Act and Freedom of Information Act;

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective immediately upon passage.
A motion was made by Commissioner Miller, seconded by Vice Chairman Degnen, to recommend for
approval as amended 19-3602. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)

Page 6 of 7

 Rules and Administration Committee

Committee Minutes

June 5, 2019

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Degnen, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Suffredin, Degnen, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison, Silvestri and Sims (9)
Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 7 of 7

 