 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Business and Economic Development Committee

Tuesday, April 23, 2019 11:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

This meeting was recessed to 1130a on Wed 4/24/2019 same location

ATTENDANCE
Present: Gainer, Anaya, Britton, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, Morrison and Morrison (9)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chaimran asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordancewith
Cook County Code.

1. Hon John D. Ryan

2. Mark 

3. Richard Koenig

4. Hon Sheila Chalmers-Cumin

5. Patricia Ainsworth

6. Elizabeth Scott

 

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 03/199019

Business and Economic Development Committee Minutes April 23, 201 9
Committee

 

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Anaya, seconded by Commissioner Miller, to approve
19-3005. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Anaya, Britton, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, Morrison and Morrison (9)

19-1965

 

Sponsored by: DONNA MILLER, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 74, ARTICLE II, REAL PROPERTY TAXATION

WHEREAS, vacant properties can devastate a neighborhood and block, undermine neighbors? quality of
life, and diminish the value of nearby preperties; and

WHEREAS, they also cause severe ?scal damage to local governments, reducing local tax revenues
while costing cities millions for policing, cleaning vacant lots, and demolishing derelict buildings; and

WHEREAS, most vacant buildings and houses are well maintained, but many are not and thousands can
sit empty for years, abandoned by their owners, deteriorating to the point where they cannot be reused
without major rehabilitation with many ultimately demolished, leaving vacant lots in their place; and

WHEREAS, besides their impact on social and economic conditions, vacant, abandoned properties have
a devastating effect on the ?scal condition of their cities, towns, and counties; and

WHEREAS, not only do they pay little in property taxes and generate little revenue for the city or county
when sold at tax sales, but they further reduce property tax collections by millions of dollars by devaluing
neighboring properties; and

WHEREAS, among the County?s tools to assist in jumpstarting economic development and turning
communities around are tax incentives; however, owners of vacant property, who receive said incentives
should not be able to inde?nitely bene?t from them without developing and re-purposing such properties;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article 11 - Real Property TaxatiOn, Division 2 - Classi?cation System for
Assessment, Section 74-73, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-73. - Revocation or cancellation of incentive classi?cation.
The following Incentive Classifications are subject to revocation herein: Class 6b (special

circumstances); Class 6b Class 6b Class "la; Class 7b; Class 7c; Class 8; and Class 8
TEERM.

Page 2 of5

Business and Economic Development Committee Minutes April 23, 2M 9
Committee

 

The incentive may be revoked under the following circumstances:
(1) By rule, as provided by the Assessor; 

(2) By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance, which is based on a report from the Bureau of
Economic Development that has been approved by the Economic Development Advisory
Committee of the County; 

(3) By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance at the request of the Municipality by submission
of a Municipal Resolution or Ordinance; and?g

(4) By request of the taxpayer to cancel&

(5) Beginning in the 2019 assessment year and subsequent assessment years, absent an af?davit
documenting the stage of leasing, development or sale and by ?nding of the Bureau of Economic
Development or by the Assessor that Abandoned or Vacant property as de?ned in this code that
have received property tax incentives as classi?ed in Sec. 'i4-73 for two consecutive tax
years and title holdeds) have failed to lease, develop or sell said property in such time period or
is found to be in noncompliance with The Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance for more than
sixty calendar days, a one year suspension of the incentive will be incurred followed by full
revocation in the second year if not remedied.

A basis for revocation pursuant to Section or above includes, but is not limited
to, the following:

(1) Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 74-71 or 74-72;

(2) Delinquency in the payment of any property taxes administered by Cook County or by a local
municipality; or

(3) Inaccuracies or omissions in documents submitted by the taxpayer, including, but not limited to,
the application and the Economic Disclosure Statement.

In case of revocation, or cancellation; or suspension the Incentive Classification shall be deemed null
and void for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked, or cancelled, or suspended as to the subject
property. In such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector
an amount equal to the difference in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had the subject
property been assessed as a Class 5 property and the amount of taxes collected under the Incentive
Classi?cation as determined by the Assessor.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 3 of 5

Business and Economic Development Committee Minutes April 23, 2019
Committee

 

A motion was made by Commissioner Miller, seconded by Vice Chairman Anaya, to
recommend for approval 19-1965. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Anaya, Britton, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, Morrison and Morrison (9)

19-2298
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL. Director, Department of Planning and Development

 

PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Housing Opportunity Development Corporation, Techny, Illinois

Request: Respectfully, the Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic
Development submits the loan recommendation of $800,000.00 in HOME Investment Partnership Funds
(HOME 2018 Grant) for the 24 month construction period and thirty year permanent period with a 1%
permanent loan rate to support development of Spruce Village, an affordable housing development in
Palatine, IL

Total Development Cost: $12,897,47300
Project Loan Amount: $800,000.00
Fiscal Impact: $800,000.00

Account(s): 1013-10757

Summary: The loan will fund Spruce Village, the new construction of a forty-four (44) unit. fully
HOME-assisted, fully accessible development targeted to individuals and families with developmental and
physical disabilities under the Permanent Supportive Housing model of operation. The requested HOME
funds account for eight percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources include Illinois Housing
Development Authority Tax Credits and Loan Funds. plus Federal Home Loan Bank AHP funding. The
maximum impact on Program Income is 38,000 annually.

The borrower will be Housing Opportunity Development Corporation (HODC), a non-profit organization
established to develop, manage and preserve affordable housing, primarily in the North and Northwestern
suburbs of the Chicago metro area. The company provides both development, operation and social
service administration for its development and residents, either in partnership or as its own representative.

Page 4 of5

Business and Economic Development Committee Minutes April 23, 20.1r 9
Committee

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Anaya, seconded by Commissioner Miller, to
recommend for approval 19-2298. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Anaya, Britton, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, Morrison and Morrison (9)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Anaya, seconded by Commissioner Miller, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Anaya, Britton, Deer. Lowry, Miller, Moore, Morrison and Morrison (9)

Respectfully submitted,

WW 25. 

Chairman Secretary

 

 

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 5 of 5

