Closed Session Minutes

Video Gaming Meeting 

Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois

March 214 and 15, 2012

NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDF ACE PRINT REF Ll'fiCrl" OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) convened for a Video Gaming Meeting on March 14,
2012. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board conterence
room: Member Michael l-lolewinski, Member Lee Gould and Member Maribeth Vander Weele.
Chairman Aaron Jaffe participated. by phone.

The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel
Carter, Deputy Patrick Kimes, Deputy

Administrator? Investigations Scott Deubel, Operations Supervisor Investigations Anthony
Jones, Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit Manager Jim
l..opinski, Project Manager Mark Stevens, Squad Supervisor Sara Cox, SEP Director Gene
O?Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings. Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed
participated "by phone.

Also in attendance was Video Gaming Agent Ray Walton and. Video Gaming Supervisor
Kenneth Dunn.

At 12:15 the meeting was called to order, Pursuant to Section paragraphs (1), (l4) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gould
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on the agenda and relating to the following subject matters:

.1. Personnel matters;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3 Closed session minutes.

Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

Member (ionld moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular Meeting
of February 215 and 16, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call.

The Board and Staff discussed Chicago Gaming Company and its request for a Manufacturer?s
and Distributor?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed EDC, and its request for a Supplier?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Arkadian Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Tower Gaming, and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed li-imperor Video Slots Corporation and its request for a ?I?erminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed .Da Route LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s License.

..

The Board and Staff discussed Sky Vending, Inc and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Ideal Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed EC Video Gaming Enterprises, LLC and its request for a
Terminal Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Tangent Gaming Capital, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Wami Gaming, LLC and its request for a 'l?erminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Illinois Video Gaming, Inc. and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed TJ Vending, Inc. and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and. Staff discussed Fair Share Gaming, LLC and its request for a ?Terminal
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Amusement of Illinois, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board. and Staff discussed Compact Disc Amusements, Ltd. and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Accel Entertainment Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Leisure Time Gaming Amusements, "Inc. and its request for a
Terminal Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Abraham Gaming, and its request for an Administrative
I-learing.

No Personnel matters were discussed.

At 2:03 RM. Member Gould moved to adjourn and go into Open session. Member Vander
Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

ctfully sub fitted,
if? OJU ea- 640?? 
1 ea ?Biddings

Sedr?tary to the Board

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) convened for a Video Gaming Meeting on March 15,
2012. The following Board members were present in the conference room at Rivers Casino:
Member Michael Holewinski, Member Lee Gould and Member Maribeth Vander Weele.
Chairman Jailite participated by phone.

The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel
Carter, Counsel Emily Mattison, Deputy Administrator/anorcement Patrick. IKimes,
Deputy Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel, Operations Supervisor A Investigations
Anthony Jones, Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit
Manager Jim Lopinski, Project Manager Mark Stevens, and Secretary to the Board Monica
Biddings.

At 10:04 AM. Member Gould moved. to go into Closed session. Member Vander Weele
seconded. the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

The Board and Staff discussed Ideal Gaming, 1.91.0 and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed EC Video Gaming Enterprises, LLC and its request for a
Terminal Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Tangent Gaming Capital, LLC and its request for a "1"erminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Da Route, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s license.

At 10:05 AM. Member Gould moved to adjourn and go into Open session. Member Vander
Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call.

Res 'ctfully Sign-?edigBigdings i103??
Se tary to the Board

 

