was A

Closed Session Minutes
Video Gaming Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
February 15 and 16, 2012

ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) convened for a Video Gaming Meeting on February 15,
2012. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board conference
room: Member Michael l-lolewinski, Member Lee Gould and Member Maribeth Vander Weele.
Chairman Aaron affe participated by phone.

The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General. Counsel
Carter, Legal Counsel Emily Mattison, Deputy Administrator/anorcement Patrick Kimes,
Deputy Administrator/lfnvestigations Scott Deubel, Operations Supervisor Investigations
Anthony Jones, Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit
Manager Jim Lopinski, Project Manager Mark Stevens, SEP Director Gene O?Shea and
Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings. Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed participated by
phone.

At 12:50 RM. the meeting was called to order, Pursuant to Section paragraphs (1), 14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gould
moved that the. Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on the agenda and relating to the following subject matters:

1. Personnel matters;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Closed session minutes.

Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved. the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

Member Gould moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular Meeting
of January 1. 8 and 19, 2012. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call.

Anthony Jones briefed the Board on IOOF Holdings Limited, an Institutional Investor.

Anthony ones briefed the Board on Sumitom Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc, an Institutional
Investor.

The Board and. Staff discussed All American Gaming, Inc. and its request for a ?l'erminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Melody Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Metro Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Gold Rush Amusements, Inc. and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Renville Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Lattner Entertainment Group Illinois, LLC and its request for a
Terminal Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed. Allied Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
I..icense.

The Board and Staff discussed Arkadian Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Triple 7 Illinois, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Vic Entertainment, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Awesome Hand Services, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed AC Gaming, Inc. and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed American Video Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Morris Gaming, Inc. and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Slot Kings Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Maxum Enterprises, Inc. and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Chicago Touch Screen, LLC and its request for an Administrative
I-"Icaring.

No Personnel matters were discussed.

At 2:00 RM. Member I-Iolewinski moved. to adjourn. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Monica .Bi'ddings
Secretary to the Board

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) convened for a Video Gaming Meeting on February 16,
2012. The following Board. members were present in the conference room at Rivers Casino:
Member Michael Holewinski, Member Lee Goald and Member Maribeth Vander Weele.
Chairman Jaiffe participated by phone.

The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel
Carter, Legal Counsel Emily Mattison, Deputy Administrator/Enforcement Patrick Kimes,
Deputy Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel, Operations Supervisor investigations
Anthony Jones, Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit
Manager Jim Lopinski, Project Manager Mark Stevens, Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed, SEP
Director Gene O?Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings.

At 10:05 AM. Member Gould moved to go into Open session. Member Vander Weele seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll. call.

