Closed Session Minutes
Video Gaming Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
August 9, 2011
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Video Gaming Meeting of the
Board on August 9, 2011. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming
Board conference room: Member Charles Gardner, Member Eugene Winkler and Member
Joseph E. Moore.
The following staff was also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, Acting Deputy
General Counsel Emily Mattison, Acting General Counsel William Bogot, Deputy
Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee , Chief Financial Officer Mark Lewis ,
Deputy Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel, Audit Manager Jim Lopinski, Project
Manager Mark Stevens, Project Manager Tommie Wofford, Operations Supervisor –
Investigations Anthony Jones, Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed, Public Information Officer
Gene O’Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings.
At 9:40 A.M. the meeting was called to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14)
and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member
Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 13, 2011. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board and Staff discussed American Vending Sales, Inc.
At 9:49 A.M. Agent Howard Ray Walton entered the meeting.
At 9:50 A.M. Deputy Administrator/Enforcement Bruce Banks entered the meeting.
The Board and Staff discussed Bally Gaming, Inc.
At 10:00 A.M. Chairman Aaron Jaffe entered the meeting.
The Board and Staff discussed Elite Casino Products, Inc.

 The Board and Staff discussed H. Betti Industries, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed IGT.
The Board and Staff discussed Incredible Technologies, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed JCM American Corporation.
The Board and Staff discussed Moss Gaming, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed MTD Gaming, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed WMS Gaming, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed Aristocrat Technologies, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed Happ IL Distribution, Inc.
The Board and Staff discussed American Gaming & Electronics.
At 11:15 A.M. the Board recessed.
At 11:30 A.M. the Board reconvened.
The Board and Staff discussed other investigations, complaints and disciplinary actions.
At 12:30 P.M. Member Moore moved to adjourn. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Biddings
Secretary to the Board

2

 