Closed Session Minutes
Video Gaming Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
July 13, 2011
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Video Gaming Meeting of the
Board on July 13, 2011. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming
Board conference room: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Member Charles Gardner, Member Eugene
Winkler and Member Joseph E. Moore.
The following staff was also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, Deputy
Administrator/Enforcement Bruce Banks, Legal Counsel Emily Mattison, Acting General
Counsel William Bogot, Audit Manager Jim Lopinski, Project Manager Mark Stevens, Project
Manager Tommie Wofford, Operations Supervisor – Investigations Anthony Jones, Public
Information Officer Gene O’Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings.
At 11:40 A.M. the meeting was called to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11),
(14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act,
Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Pending litigation; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of June 13, 2011. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on ongoing investigations regarding applicants listed on the
agenda for Video Gaming manufacturers, distributors and suppliers licenses.
At 12:10 A.M. Member Winkler moved to adjourn. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Biddings
Secretary to the Board

 