Closed Session Minutes
Video Gaming Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
September 19 and 20, 2011
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Regular Video Gaming Meeting of the
Board on September 19, 2011. The following Board members were present in the Illinois
Gaming Board conference room: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Member Charles Gardner, Member
Eugene Winkler and Member Joseph E. Moore.
The following staff was also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel
Lynn Carter, Legal Counsel Emily Mattison, Legal Counsel William Bogot, Deputy
Administrator/Enforcement Bruce Banks, Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis
Doug Bybee , Deputy Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel, Project Manager Mark
Stevens, Project Manager Tommie Wofford, Operations Supervisor – Investigations Anthony
Jones, Public Information Officer Gene O’Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings.
Chief Financial Officer Mark Lewis and Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed participated by
phone.
At 10:10 A.M. the meeting was called to order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member
Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under
Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of August 9, 2011. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
The Board and Staff discussed VGT Manufacturing, Inc. and its request for a new
Manufacturer’s License.
The Board and Staff discussed VGT Distribution, Inc. and its request for a new Distributor’s
License.
The Board and Staff discussed Spielo Manufacturing, ULC and its request for a new
Manufacturer’s License.
At 10:45 A.M. the Board recessed.

 At 11:10 A.M. the Board reconvened.
The Board and Staff continued their discussion regarding Spielo Manufacturing, ULC.
The Board and Staff discussed other investigations, complaints and disciplinary actions.
At 11:27 A.M. Member Winkler moved to recess until Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at 11:30
A.M.. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Biddings
Secretary to the Board

2

 At 11:47 A.M. The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) reconvened for a Regular Video Gaming
Meeting of the Board on September 20, 2011. The following Board members were present in the
Illinois Gaming Board conference room: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Member Charles Gardner,
Member Eugene Winkler and Member Joseph E. Moore.
The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel
Lynn Carter, Legal Counsel William Bogot, Deputy Administrator/Enforcement Bruce Banks,
Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee , Deputy
Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel, Project Manager Mark Stevens, Operations
Supervisor – Investigations Anthony Jones, Public Information Officer Gene O’Shea and
Secretary to the Board Monica Biddings. Chief Financial Officer Mark Lewis and Legislative
Liaison Caleb Melamed participated by phone.
The Board and Staff continued their discussion of Monday, September 19, 2011 regarding VGT
Manufacturing, Inc. and its request for a new Manufacturer’s License.
The Board and staff continued their discussion of Monday, September 19, 2011 regarding VGT
Distribution, Inc. and its request for a new Distributor’s License.
The Board and staff continued their discussion of Monday, September 19, 2011 regarding Spielo
Manufacturing, ULC and its request for a new Manufacturer’s License.
At 12:00 P.M. Member Winkler moved to go into Open Session. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Biddings
Secretary to the Board

3

 