JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY

"While the Cook County Board of Commissioners makes every
attempt to keep the record of its proceedings up to date with
current law and policies, the Board does not guarantee the
accuracy, legality, reliability or content of any of the
information contained herein in journals prior to December 6,
2010, and that the information is provided as submitted to the
Cook County Clerk".
DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF COOK COUNTY
OCTOBER 26, 2000
(SPECIAL MEETING)

JOHN H. STROGER, JR ., PRESIDENT
JERRY BUTLER
ALAN C. CARR
EARLEAN COLUNS
JOHN P. DALEY
GREGG GOSLIN
CARL R. HANSEN
TED LECHOW ICZ
ROBERTO MALDONADO

W ILLIAM R. MORAN
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO
MIKE QUIGLEY
HERBERT T. SCHUMANN, JR.
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
BOBBIE L. STEELE
CALVIN R. SUTKER

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR O CTOBER 26, 2000
C all of th e Meeting .................. ........................ ............................................... ..................... .................. 324 I
C all to Order ............................................ ...................... ... ............................................ ............. ........... 3243
Budget Message of the President to the Board of Commissioners ........... .. .... .... ............... ...... ............. 3243
Adjournment ..... ........................ .............................................................................. .............................. 3250

 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

JOURNAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

OF COOK COUNTY
Meeting of Thursday, October 26, 2000
10:00 A.M.
Central Standard Time
COOK COUNTY BOARD ROOM, COUNTY BUILDING

Board met pursuant to the following call :
October I 8, 2000

Honorable David Orr
County Clerk
69 W. Washington St., 5th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Dear Mr. Orr:
Pursuant to the authority vested in me, I hereby call a Special Meeting of the Board of Commi ssioners of
Cook County for Thursday, October, 26, 2000, at the hour of I 0:00 a.m. in the County Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 11 8 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting I will present
the Message of the President to the Board of Cook County Commissioners submitting the Executive
Budget for Fiscal Year 200 I.
Very truly yours,
JOHN H . STROGER, JR., President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

324 1

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

COPY OF LETTER SENT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
October 18, 2000

Honorable President and
Members of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Ladies and Gentlemen:
John H. Stroger, Jr., Presi dent of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeti ng of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Thursday, October 26, 2000, at the
hour of I 0:00 a.m. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, lllino is, at which meeting the Message of the President to the Board of Cook County
Comm issioners submitting the Exec uti ve Budget for Fiscal Year 2001 will be presented.
Very truly yours,
DA YID ORR, County Clerk

*****
This is to certify that a copy of the above notice was hand delivered and personally addressed to each
Member of the Board of Cook County Commissioners at his or her home address and was depos ited in
the United States Mail on Friday October 18, 2000.
DA YID ORR, County C lerk

*****
The following Legal Notice appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times Newspaper on Sunday, October 22,
2000.

LEGAL NOTICE
John H. Stroger, Jr., President of the Board of Commi ssioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Com missioners of Cook County on Thursday, October 26, 2000, at the
hour of I 0:00 A.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North C lark Street,
Chicago, Ill inois, at which meeting the Message of the President to the Board of Cook County
Commissioners su bmitting the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2001 w ill be presented.
Very truly yours,
DA YID ORR, County Clerk and Clerk
of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, lllinois
October 22, 2000

3242

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

OFFIClAL RECORD
Pres ident Stroger in the Chair.

CALL TO ORDER
At I 0:00 A.M ., being the hour appointed fo r the meeting, the President called the Board to o rder.

QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.

ROLL CALL
Present:

Butler, Carr, Collins, Daley, Goslin, Hansen, Lechowicz, Maldonado, Moreno, Quigley,
Schumann, Silvestri, Sims, Sutker, Stroger-1 5.

Absent:

Moran, Steele-2.

BUDGET MESSAGE OF THE PRESIDENT
to the
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2001
October 26, 2000
To the Honorable Members of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County:
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We are blessed, today, to meet at the dawn ofa new century, and to hold a public trust; one that al lows us
to shape the Cook County Government of 200 1 and beyond, building a brig hter fu ture for those who
come after us.
You and I have presided over a transition year that saw Cook County mark a number of accomplishments
as the 20th century draws to a close.
A new Cook County Hospital, ri sing at Darnen and Ogden, has passed the ha lfway point as we move
publ ic medicine forward. I recently spoke to a c lass of new doctors who will be the first to staff the new
hospital.
I did my best to inspire them, recounting some of the rich history of County Hospital.
But, I shou ld te ll you, they inspired me.
We are doing the right thing, ladies and gentlemen, for the patients we will serve in the century ahead and
for the doctors, nurses and other professionals who bring people the wonders of modern medicine every
day at County Hospital.

3243

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

And the new hospital will save taxpayers more than $400 million in total operating costs during its first
five years.
Future generations will mark well what the Cook County Board is doing at the turn of the century.
Dealing with c rim e has been one of the greatest challenges of the post World War II era for Cook County
and the nation.
In the past decade, our public safety spending more than doubled to counter rising crime.
investment has paid off; crime rates are beginning to recede.

But our

While we keep up our guard in the face of changing crime patterns, we must add to our arsenal a renewed
focus on crime prevention.
Remember, Cook County's criminal justice responsibilities don't stop at the jail house door. We are
required by law to provide the courts to try the suspects, the state's attorneys to prosecute the cases, and
the public defenders to ensure that justice is done fo r those without the means to pay for a lawyer.
True to our missions of providing for public safety and health, we are building the first new courthouse in
more than a decade, we are moving forward with major improvements to our health-care de livery system,
and we are enhancing our services to populations and communities in need.
And all this is possible thanks to a solid financial foundation that you and I, together, have laid.
The new century will find Cook County with the highest bond ratings we've had in more than 25 years.
Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch all give us Double-A bond ratings.
Ben Frankli n, writer, inventor, diplomat and champion of freedom is perhaps best known for the wisdom
of Poor Richard's A lmanac.
Franklin offered a focus on what is important in life, then and now, when he said, "Thi nk of these things:
whence you came, where you are going and to whom you must account."
If we follow Ben Frankli n's adv ice, we'll see that the public's money is well spent.
The taxpayers of Cook County, to whom we account, provide the resources to meet the challenges we
deal with in this chamber.
Our watchword fo r the 2001 budget is discipline. We are stronger today for the financial discipline we
imposed on ourselves during the late 1990s.
Today, I am honored to play a leading role--along with each of you on the County Board--as we prepare
the first Cook County budget of the 21st century.
I am presenting to you, for the year 200 1, a balanced budget of$2.7 billi on, an increase of$99 million
over this year. This proposed budget limits spendi ng requests, keeps taxes stable fo r our homeowners,
and reinforces our public safety and health mi ssions.
The employee head count is down from last year and has been for the last six years.
The property tax levy for next year wi ll be $720 million ... the same as last year.

3244

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDING S FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

Next year, as we pursue our public service commitments, we also honor our contracts with our union
work force--including our crime-fighters and healthcare professionals.
We also will provide about $3 millio n a year over the next five years for up-to-date election equipment
that will ens ure smoother Election Day counts.
I want you to stop and consider a few developments and trends that have affected the way we, as a
government, do business:
• We have endured I 0 years of public safety cost increases, expensive arbitration awards and higher
wages and health insurance costs.
• Ladies and gentlemen, arbitration awards have added $ 10 million to our spending this year al one.
• Hospitalization costs have added another $23 million over last year.
• Half of what we spend as a government goes to one of our most labor-intense enterprises : Public
Safety .
• Where most of our employees in other areas of government recei ved about 3 percent a year in
raises ...vario us salaries in public safety have risen 3 percent to 5 percent s ince 1992 ...substantially above
the cost-of-li ving range for that time.
• Let me give you an example: In 1994, when the area's cost of li ving was pegged at 2.4 percent, one
category of public safety employees received three times that amount ... because a 3 percent arbitration
award was tacked onto to their cost-of-li ving ra ises.
And those ra ises already were abo ve the cost of li ving.
Next year, o ur employees will sta rt making contributions to the ir health care costs, and that will help. But
we will need to take a long, hard look at salaries and benefits so that we can be fair to our work fo rce and
fair to our taxpayers, as well.
Our challenge in the coming year is to meet our public service commitments, while maintaining our fiscal
discipline in the face of these financia l real ities.
We will meet that challenge.
First, I am directing the Chief Fina nc ia l Officer a nd the C hief Admini strati ve Officer to have our
industria l engineers review the County's operations w ith an eye toward evaluating all of our operations
from a cost- benefit standpoint.
Next, I a m directing the County's bargaining team to re-evaluate the incremental prog ress we have made
toward re ining in employee costs.
We want to ens ure that the County's costs are in line with sound bus iness practices ... locally and
nationally .
Finally, we have to ensure that our revenues are broad enoug h to support our vital public safety
operatio ns.

324 5

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

To ensure that the County will have the resources needed to carry out its mission of service, I wil l ask
your support to broaden our revenue base with a nomina l parking tax of up to $ 1.
This non-real estate alternative revenue source would bring in about $19 million next year, and make the
County even less dependent upon property taxes.
Spending discipline and our use of alternative revenues has reduced Cook County's reliance on real estate
taxes from nearly 27 percent in 1995 to 2 1.3 percent.
And, as homeowners can see from their tax bills, County government typically represents about 10
percent of what you pay in rea l estate taxes.
Diversifying our tax base in this manner, and controlling expenditures, makes possi ble a ll that the County
does in fi ghting crime, building stronger comm un ities and promoting health.
As part of our ongoing effort to share costs and work with other government agencies, we have an
agreement with the C ity of Chicago that provided the County with $5.5 million this year for a variety of
law enforcement programs.
The money comes from federal grants to the c ity to fight crime ... and the agreement wi ll bring us another
$4.8 million next year to help cover public safety costs.
We also work with the state of Illinois and that cooperation has brought us support for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center. We are using a portion of the latest $6 million instal lment to overhaul
delivery of health care at the J.T.D.C.
Our Juvenile Center will partner with the Bureau of Health Services to provide better medical care for the
juveniles in our custody.
These kinds of cooperative efforts among government agencies pay dividends by all owing us to find
creative solutions to problems by working together ... problems that might be too costly to handle alone.
The 2001 budget will provide $48 million more than last year for public safety--a total of $954 million.
Public safety takes 51 percent of the general fund budget.
As you know, Cook County operates the largest unified court system in the world and the largest singlesite jail in the nation. Our police officers, prosecutors and judges are on the front line in the battle against
crime.
But in the future, we will make crime prevention a larger part of our efforts as we move to right size our
public safety spending.
I invite each member of this board and our other elected County officials, in the com ing year, to assist me
in finding more creative ways to deliver public safety services in a more cost-effective manner.
We MUST ri ght size the public safety portion of our budget which now totals nearly a BILLION dollars.
Greater use of technology and smarter law enforcement strategies can help us take advantage of a 9
percent drop in the County's overall crime rate.
A crime-prevention program I initiated two years ago, called BADGE--Balanced Approach to Drug and
Gang Elimination--makes prevention an option in the suburbs.

3246

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

In each of the last two years, police departments in 19 towns each rece ived grants of up to $ 100,000 to
support crime prevention tailored to their communities.
I am pleased to announce that the BADGE program has been expanded to add seven more communities,
bringing the number of suburbs we serve to 26. The new communities are: Burbank, Chicago Ridge,
Forest Park, North Ri verside, Stickney, Elmwood Park, and Riverside.
We also are working with C hief Judge Donald O'Connell , of the Cook County C ircuit Court, to allow
video court appearances fo r some suspects. T hi s program can g reatly red uce the risks, as wel l as the
costs, of moving prisoners from lockups to distant courthouses fo r routine hearings.
And we're providing new radios for Ad ult Probati on Department officers who work in the Gang
Intervention Unit. This anti-gang effort a lready receives $1 million from our grant monies.
The administration of justice in Cook County is one of our day-to-day core missions, and we've taken the
initial steps in providing new court faci lities for the future.
Early in the growing years of the 2 1st century, Domestic Violence Court and Traffic Court will convene
in a new court center, leaving behind overcrowded and o utdated buildings that no longer meet the court' s
needs.
T he new court center on the West Side represents a $212 million investment in the future, on behalf of
public safety and the admi nistration of justi ce.
In the meantime, we will soon complete improvements at the Daley Center that will provide temporary
quarters for Traffic Court beginning early next year. And those improvements wi ll be permanent, leaving
in place modern courtrooms to serve our civil justice needs.
Our Bureau of Health Services ... which, last summer, celebrated the I 65th anniversary of Cook County
Hospital ... carries forward another of our core missions. I am proposing a 200 I Health Fund budget of
$722 million, or $30 million more than last year.
Our modern health-care de livery system now includes 30 health centers th ro ug hout Cook County--up
from 8 in 199 1.
In the last year, Ruth Rothstein and I presided at the openings of expanded health centers in Ford Heights
and Robbins.
We opened the new Logan Square Health Center, which marks a re-investment in Chicago's Hispanic
community.
And we added the new Vista Health Center in Palatine, a collaborati ve effort by the Bureau of Health, the
County's Department of Public Health and Northwest Community Hospital.
Soon, we will open an expanded Englewood Health Center. And, in the year ahead, five add iti onal hea lth
centers will be opened as joint ventures between the County and private health care providers.
Our Office of Violence Prevention is working with the Morton School District's two high schools and 38
e lementary schools on a Safe Schools/Healthy Students Prog ram.

3247

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

This comm unity-wide strategy wi ll focus education and health resources to prevent violence and drug
abuse and enhance mental health and social services for at-risk youth. It will help schools that serve
22,000 students in Cicero, Berwyn, Lyons, McCook and Stickney.
T he Department of Public Health provides a wide range of serv ices, including visio n and hearing tests fo r
about 2,000 children a year ... restaurant inspections ... and mob ile screening of women for breast and
cervical cancer, and men for prostate cancer.
Leading the way in the fight against the damage done by tobacco, Publ ic Health is addi ng a tobacco
prevention coordinator to trans late our anti-sm oking talk into acti on.
This coordinator will go to work with the backing of a $1.7 million g rant we won from the state. T he
mission is clear-cut: prevent new smokers from heading down the path toward disease and death, get
more smokers to quit, and stem the epi demic of smoking disease in the hard-hit minori ty and poor
populations.
We have earmarked $10 million to upgrade wiring in all of our courthouses, the Daley Center, the County
Building and at our health faci lities.
And the 200 I budget year will see the ope ning of our employee daycare center in the County
Administration Building, at 69 West Washington.
In an effort to expand services throughout Cook County, Treasurer Maria Pappas has been successfu l in
providing taxpayers with 120 locations where they can pay their real estate taxes. Without a trip
downtown, your payment now gets credited, quickly and easily; and the money reaches the County
immediately.
Working with Sheri ff Michae l Sheahan, we're addi ng more local police departments to our Wide Area
Network ... a step that allows for faster fingerprint identification of suspects who may be wanted for
serio us crimes.
Soon, Cook County will have I 07 police departments on-line for speedy access to criminal histories and
mug shots.
Lead poisoning remains a plague threatening young fam ilies living in older hous ing. Science gave us the
tools to detect the threat from lead-based paint...but it's up to us to identify the homes that are at risk and
remove and replace the old paint.
Children through age six are at risk from lead paint chips and lead dust.
To screen children for lead exposure, and to find and remove lead hazards, Cook County will take action
to make a difference in lead abatement.
In the coming weeks, I will name a Lead Prevention Advisory Council. If the County Board approves,
the Council will have available an initial $ 14.2 million to launch a Cook County Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program.
The new Council wi ll oversee grants to encourage education and prevention and to help property owners
carry out lead mitigation and lead abatement.

3248

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

This new program is a good example of why we constantly emphasize financia l di scipline: The stronger
we are, financi ally, the better we can help people with problems such as lead poisoning.
The Cook County Highway Department maintains a 577-mile modern transportation network, including
126 bridges ... and 284 traffic signals.
Next year's hig hway program ... with tota l spending of $ 139 million ... will bring improvements in the city
of Chicago a nd throughout our g rowing suburban areas.
This year, we are wrapping up work on a $9. 1 million reconstruction of Vollmer Road, in Olympia Fields
and Flossmoor... and we are completing reconstruction of Lake-Cook Road, in Northbrook and
Deerfield ... also a $9. I million project.
Next year, we'll carry o ut nearly $2 1 million in resurfacing, re-construction and sig na l work from Richton
Park and Orland Hills in southern Cook County ... to LaGrange in the western s uburbs ... and up to Palatine
on the north.
The County's Department of Planning and Development wil l carry on its work of investing more than $ 19
million in assistance to municipalities ... throug h Community Development Block Grants, Home
Investment Partnership funds and Emergency Shelter G rants.
The year 200 I looms as a sig nal event...and we have made significant strides to ens ure that the County is
funded while minimizing the burden on homeowners.
Since I've taken office, I've red uced about 1,000 positions from offices and agencies under the County
Board President... including the health sector.
We will need to take thi s challenge to o ur financial reso urces seriously in the months ahead. Please, be
my partners in this endeavor.
We must ensure that labor and health costs don't spiral o ut of control.
Again, Ben Franklin's words on the subject of virtue, are valuab le today:
"The scriptures ass ure me that, at the last day, we sha ll not be examined on what we thought...but what
we did."
What we do here, in this century and the next, matters g reatly to those we serve.
In short, we are making a differe nce.
Thank you.

JOHN H. STROG ER, JR., President

* * * * *
The Message of the President to the Board of Cook County Commi ssio ners was given by President
Stroger.

3249

 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR OCTOBER 26, 2000

* * * * *
President Stroger then submitted the Executive Budget to the Board of Commissioners for the Fiscal Year
200 I, for referral to the Committee on Finance.

Commiss ioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Carr, moved that the President's Executive Budget be
referred to the Committee on Finance. The motion carried unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Carr, moved that the Special Meeting do now adjourn.

ROLL CALL
Present:

Butler, Carr, Collins, Daley, Gosli n, Hansen, Lechowicz, Maldonado, Moreno, Quigley,
Schumann, Silvestri, Sims, Sutker, Stroger-1 5.

Absent:

Moran, Steele-2.

The motion prevai led and the Special Meeti ng stood adjourned.
The next regular County Board Meeting is scheduled by law, for Thursday, November 2, 2000.

County Clerk

3250

 