Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Business and Economic Development Committee
Tuesday, September 13, 2016

1:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

Public Hearing
NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act
appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time
requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing
future testimony.
16-4643
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TAX INCENTIVE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION,
ARTICLE II REAL PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR
ASSESSMENT, Sec. 74-62 through 74-63 and Sec. 74-73 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 74-62. - System established; terms defined.
Page 1 of 28

 (a)Established. The County hereby establishes the system of classifying real estate for the purposes of
assessment for taxation set forth in this division.
(b)Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned property means, except as otherwise specified in Section 74-63, buildings and other
structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months, have been purchased
for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest.
Area in need of commercial development means any area within the County which satisfies the
provisions of Section 74-65(a).
Certified local government means a unit of local government fulfilling the requirements of the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. § 470a) [the "Act"] that has been certified by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Officer pursuant to the Act.
Community area means an area within the City of Chicago so designated and identified by the Social
and Economic Characteristics of Chicago's Population: Community Area Profiles, December 1992 or
revisions thereto, or in the County outside the City of Chicago, as defined by the municipality concerned
or by the County in unincorporated areas.
Contributing building means a building which is a historic structure within a specifically designated
historic or landmark district pursuant to a local ordinance, approved by a certified local government, which
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, and which meets the following criteria:
(1) The building was constructed within or present during the period of historical significance of the
district;
(2) The building relates to the significant features, qualities and/or themes that give the district its
historic, cultural and/or architectural significance; and
(3) The building substantially retains its design, materials and appearance from the period of
historical significance of the district; or if substantially altered, the changes are reversible such
that, through the substantial rehabilitation of the building, the building will be returned to a state
that substantially retains its design, materials and appearance from the period of historical
significance of the district.
Cook County Tax Reactivation Project means a project in the County of Cook administered by the
Cook County Assessor's Office, or other authorized entity, wherein marketable properties located in the
County of Cook are identified and then purchased through the no cash bid process pursuant to Chapter 35
of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or any subsequent statute.
Expiring contract means a project based assistance contract under Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f) which, under the terms of the contract, will expire.
Fair market rent and HUD FMR mean the fair market rental established under Section 8(c) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f).
Page 2 of 28

 HUD means the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
HUD's Section 8 renewal policy guidelines means that certain handbook titled "Section 8 Renewal
Policy: Guidelines for the Renewal of Project Based Section 8 Contracts" as published from time to time
by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Multi-Family Housing, as
amended from time to time, or any successor publication.
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency means the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, established
pursuant to the Historic Preservation Agency Act (20 ILCS 3405/1, et seq.) and the Illinois Historic
Preservation Act (20 ILCS 3410/1, et seq.).
In need of substantial revitalization means an area no less than ten contiguous acres or more than one
contiguous square mile in size which is in a state of extreme economic depression evidenced by such factors,
as defined in the rules and regulations as promulgated by the Office of the County Assessor, among others,
as:
(1) Substantial unemployment;
(2) A low level of median family income;
(3) Aggravated abandonment, deterioration, and underutilization of properties;
(4) A lack of viable industrial and commercial buildings whose absence significantly contributes to
the depressed economic and unemployment conditions in the area;
(5) A clear pattern of stagnation or decline of real estate taxes within the area as a result of its
depressed condition;
(6) A manifest lack of economic feasibility for private enterprise to accomplish the necessary
modernization, rehabilitation and development of the area without public assistance and
encouragement; and
(7) Other factors which evidence an imminent threat to public health, welfare and safety.
Industrial Growth Zone means real estate located within certain enterprise zones within Cook County
as identified by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, including the Cal-Sag Enterprise Zone, Calumet
Enterprise Zone, Will-Cook Enterprise Zone, and Lincoln and 394 Corridor Enterprise Zone and such other
industrial areas as may be designated by the Cook County Board of Commissioners as areas in need of
industrial development or redevelopment, and real estate located in certain industrial corridors which have
been identified as areas in need of industrial development or redevelopment, including the Burnside
Industrial Corridor, Calumet Industrial Corridor, Greater Southwest Industrial Corridor, Northwest
Industrial Corridor, and Roosevelt-Cicero Industrial Corridor as identified by the City of Chicago.
Landmark means a building which is specifically designated as a historic or landmark structure
pursuant to a local ordinance, approved by a certified local government, pursuant to its criteria, which have
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. The definition of landmark does not include a
Page 3 of 28

 facade or other architectural element which has been preserved and designated as a historic structure, if the
remainder of the building has been demolished and replaced.
Low- or moderate-income person or household means a person or household occupying a single
dwelling unit and whose combined annual income is equal to or less than the income limits for low-income
families for the Chicago Metropolitan Statistical Area as determined by the Secretary of the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. § 1437 et seq.). A household consists of all the occupants of a legal dwelling unit, related or
unrelated.
Major rehabilitation means, for purposes of the Class 9 provisions of this division only, the extensive
renovation or replacement of primary building components or systems as further prescribed by rule of the
Assessor.
Manufacturing means the material staging and production of goods used in procedures commonly
regarded as manufacturing, processing, fabrication, or assembling which changes existing material into new
shapes, new qualities, or new combinations and including research and development associated with the
production of goods.
Mark up to market option means a contract renewal option, pursuant to Section 524(a)(4)(A) of the
Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 [MAHRA] (Title V of Public Law
No. 105-65, October 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1384ff), as amended by Section 531 of the Departments of Veterans
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Pub.
L. No. 106-74, October 20, 1999, 113 Stat. 1109ff) (42 U.S.C. § 1437f) or any successor statute, for eligible
properties located in strong markets, where a rent comparability study conducted by HUD has determined
that comparable market rents are at or above 100 percent of the HUD Fair Market Rent, and for which HUD
is authorized to approve renewal terms providing rents higher than the HUD FMR. The mark up to market
option includes increasing rents from the HUD FMR to the level of an existing use restriction on a property.
Mark up to market option under HUD's discretionary authority means a contract renewal option,
pursuant to Section 524 (a)(4)(C) or (D) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability
Act of 1997 [MAHRA] (Title V of Public Law No. 105-65, October 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1384ff), as amended
by Section 531 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Pub. L. No. 106-74, October 20, 1999, 113 Stat. 1109ff)
(42 U.S.C. § 1437f) or any successor statute, providing rents higher than the HUD FMR, based on the
exercise of HUD's discretionary authority, for properties which do not necessarily meet the usual eligibility
criteria, but do meet a special set of statutory criteria, in that a vulnerable population is affected; there is a
low vacancy rate in the area, which would make tenant based assistance difficult to use, or a lack of
comparable housing; or the project is a high priority for the local community, as demonstrated by a
contribution of state or local funds to the property.
Market value means that value, estimated at the price it would bring at a fair voluntary sale.
Marketable means tax delinquent commercial and/or industrial parcels targeted by the South Suburban
Tax Reactivation Program which have been identified by the County Department of Planning and
Development, or other authorized entity, as a property, that if developed, would bring economic benefit to
the affected taxing districts.
Page 4 of 28

 Multifamily residential real estate means real estate which is used primarily for residential purposes
and consists of an existing multifamily building containing seven or more rental dwelling units.
No further remediation letter means a letter from the IEPA, addressing the entire site, approving or
approving with conditions a remedial action completion report.
Period of historical significance, for purposes of the Class L provisions of this division, means the
period of development history (represented by the buildings in the district) for which the district is
significant.
Preservation commission means a commission or similar body established by a certified local
government pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. § 470a) [the "Act"],
generally for the purpose of identifying, preserving, protecting, recommending for designation and
encouraging the continued use and the rehabilitation of areas, properties and structures having historical
and/or architectural significance.
Real estate means not only the land itself, whether laid out in town or city lots, or otherwise, with all
things contained therein, but also all buildings, structures and improvements, and their permanent fixtures,
of whatsoever kind, thereon, and all rights and privileges belonging or in anywise pertaining thereto.
Included therein is any vehicle or similar portable structures used or so constructed as to permit its being
used as a dwelling for one or more persons; if such structure is resting in whole on a permanent foundation.
Real estate, improved. For purposes of this division and more particularly Section 74-63, real estate
while under lease or license to a unit of local government for an annual rental or fee of not more than $1.00,
shall not be deemed to be improved as a result of any alterations, additions or modifications consisting of
the construction, landscaping, maintenance, or beautification of parks, parkways, parking lots, playgrounds,
or similar public facilities operated or maintained for the public benefit. During the term of such lease or
license, including extensions thereof, the real estate which is the subject of such lease or license shall be
treated as though such alterations, additions, or modifications have not been made.
Real estate used for commercial purposes means any real estate used primarily for buying and selling
of goods and services, or for otherwise providing goods and services, including any real estate used for
hotel and motel purposes.
Real estate used for industrial purposes means any real estate used primarily in manufacturing, as
defined in this Section, or in the extraction or processing of raw materials unserviceable in their natural
state to create new physical products or materials, or in the processing of materials for recycling, or in the
transportation or storage of raw materials or finished physical goods in the wholesale distribution of such
materials or goods for sale or leasing.
Real estate used for residential purposes means any improvement or portion thereof occupied solely
as a dwelling unit.
Remedial action plan means a plan addressing remediation of the entire site, approved by the IEPA
pursuant to its site remediation program. The plan must include, as applicable: an executive summary;
remediation objectives appropriate for the described planned industrial or commercial use; remedial
technologies selected; confirmation sampling plan; applicable preventive, engineering, and institutional
controls and monitoring procedures; cost estimates and timetable.
Page 5 of 28

 Rents affordable to low- and moderate-income persons and households means gross rents that do not
exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a household whose income equals 55 percent of the median
income for the Chicago Metropolitan Statistical Area, with adjustments for number of bedrooms in the
units, as determined annually by the Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, or rents for units occupied by households receiving housing assistance under Section 8 of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437 et seq.). The term "gross rents" means the rental
cost of the unit plus any allowances for tenant paid utilities (except telephone), services and appliances.
Section 8 contract means a contract for project-based assistance for a multifamily housing project
under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f).
Section 8 contract renewal means (a) renewal of a Section 8 contract for an additional five years under
the mark up to market option or under the mark up to market option under HUD's discretionary authority,
after a determination of eligibility by HUD pursuant to its authority under Section 524(a)(4)(A), (C), or (D)
of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 [MAHRA] (Title V of Public
Law No. 105-65, October 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 1384ff), as amended by Section 531 of the Departments of
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
2000 (Pub. L. No. 106-74, October 20, 1999, 113 Stat. 1109ff) (42 U.S.C. § 1437f) or any successor statute;
or (b) renewal of a Section 8 contract by a not-for-profit corporation under any available option under
HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal Policy Guidelines.
Single room occupancy means a room rented as sleeping or living quarters with or without cooking
facilities located in the same room as the sleeping or living quarters, and with or without individual
bathrooms.
Single room occupancy building means a multiunit residential building in which at least 90 percent of
the units are single room occupancy units, excluding rooms occupied by management employees, and in
which at least 75 percent of the annual occupancy of the SRO units is for monthly terms.
Site means, for the purposes of the Class C provisions of this division, the real estate which is
remediated and developed for industrial or commercial use. The site must be identified by property index
number, and must be delineated by an accurate legal description if it comprises less than the whole of any
parcel at the time of application.
Site remediation program or program means remediation of the site as appropriate for the planned
industrial or commercial use, according to a remedial action plan approved by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA), pursuant to its site remediation program, under the authority of Title XVII of
the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/58 et seq.).
State Historic Preservation Officer means the Director of the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
Substantial rehabilitation,, for the purposes of the Class L provisions of this Article only, means the
extensive renovation or replacement of primary building systems of the landmark and/or the significant
improvement of the condition of the landmark, as further prescribed by rule of the Assessor; which meets
or exceeds the standards of the United States Department of the Interior for rehabilitation, preservation,
restoration, and reconstruction of historic properties; and which has been completed in accordance with
plans approved by the certified local government within which the landmark is located.
Page 6 of 28

 Targeted area means census tracts in the City of Chicago or census block groups in the County outside
of the City of Chicago, as defined and identified by the U.S. Census Bureau's most recent census, in which
at least 51 percent of the residents are low- or moderate-income persons.
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
(1) Class 1. Unimproved real estate.
(2) Class 2. Real estate:
a.

Used as a farm;

b.

Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not
more than six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a
government subsidized housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest
assessment category;

c.

Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where
the building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or

d.

Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as defined in this division,
provided that:
1.

At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80
percent of the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single
Room Occupancy Units" as set by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (hereinafter "FMR schedule");

2.

No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the
current FMR schedule;

3.

The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the
building shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and

4.

The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and
health codes and requirements.

In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2 classification shall
be revoked.
(3) Class 3. All improved real estate used for residential purposes which is not included in any other
class.

Page 7 of 28

 (4) Class 4. Real estate owned and used by a not-for-profit corporation in furtherance of the purposes
set forth in its charter unless used for residential purposes. If such real estate is used for residential
purposes, it shall be classified in the appropriate residential class.
(5) Class 5a. All real estate not included in Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5b, Class 6b,
Class C, Class 7a, Class 7b, Class 7c, Class 8, Class 9, Class S or Class L of this Section.
(6) Class 5b. All real estate used for industrial purposes as defined herein and not included in any
other class.
(7) Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their
value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation
adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for
the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears
to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.
a.An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has
determined that the incentive provided by Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on
that specific real estate and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be,
supports and consents to the Class 6b application to the Assessor. A certified copy of the
Ordinance or Resolution need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility
application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an
assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not
filed at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a
letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution
or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested. If the real estate is located within
an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor
and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an applicant must obtain from an authorized
officer of the municipality or an authorized officer of the Cook County Bureau of Economic
Development if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, a letter stating that the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the filing of
the Class 6b application with the Assessor. A certified copy of the authorized officer letter
shall be included with the Class 6b application at the time of filing the application with the
Assessor. The application shall include any other information deemed necessary by the
Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the industrial development project qualifies
for the Class 6b classification and shall bear the expense of doing so.
b.

A copy of the Resolution, or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested, or the
letter from an authorized officer if the real estate is in an Industrial Growth Zone, whichever
is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of
the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected
districts.
Page 8 of 28

 c.

Class 6b applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such
new construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 6b incentive. With respect
to abandoned property, the Class 6b application must be made to the Assessor prior to the
commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property.

d.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purpose of Class 6b, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned"
for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The
applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special
circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution
to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b
need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor,
but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to
request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b
eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.
If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 6b
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant must obtain from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized officer
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the case
may be, supports and consents to the filing of the Class 6b application with the Assessor. A
certified copy of the authorized officer letter shall be included with the Class 6b application
at the time of filing the application with the Assessor. The application shall include any other
information deemed necessary by the Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the
industrial development project qualifies for the Class 6b classification and shall bear the
expense of doing so.
Page 9 of 28

 Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose
of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if there has been no purchase for value and the
buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous
months. The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting
to the Class 6b application under the TEERM Program. If the Ordinance or Resolution is
that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a finding
that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution
to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance
with the required finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to
the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will
validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b
and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or
Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County
Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned"
for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b application with
the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal
is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the
Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not
meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the municipality or the County
Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is deemed "qualified" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:
1.

The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and

2.

The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff,
and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically
viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused.

The finding that a property is qualified, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is
necessary for the industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and
maintain its staff, and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and
unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the
Class 6b application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval
of the County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"qualified" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained.
Page 10 of 28

 The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of
special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that
the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution
to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b
need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be
filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class
change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 6b application, the
applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the
case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has
been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program or SER Program under a Class 6b application must
be received by the Assessor's Office on or before November 30, 2018 to receive
consideration.
The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the number
of persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to
certify whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER
application continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the Assessor
within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER
application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by
the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the
County Board from the affected districts. Failure to file such reports within the time
established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating
to the non-filing. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the
time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the Class 6b incentive
granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.
e.

This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy, or
in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice
of approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program, this classification
shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the notice of approval, or until the
industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases
operations at that location if that occurs sooner.

f.

Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program, this
incentive may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled to a ten percent
assessment level pursuant to Section 74-64(7), if the following requirements are met:

Page 11 of 28

 1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of intent to request renewal of the incentive
from the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the
industrial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 6b; provided, however, that if the real
estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, in lieu of a Resolution, may provide
from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized officer of the Cook
County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, a certified letter stating that the municipality or the County Board,
as the case may be, supports and consents to the renewal of the Class 6b; and

3.

A copy of that Resolution or certified authorization letter (if applicable) and a
completed renewal application are filed with the Assessor's Office before the expiration
of the ten percent assessment level period.

g.

Class 6b incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program are
not renewable. For all other Class 6b incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited
as long as the property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 6b.

h.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office
to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from
the affected districts.

i.

If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant
to Section 74-64(7). After expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert
to the applicable classification under this Division.

j.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the benefits provided under Class
6b.

k.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
6b recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
6b site. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary
of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall
result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.

(8) Class C. Real estate which is to be used for industrial or commercial purposes, including
abandoned property, as defined in Section 74-62, including the land upon which such property is
situated; or vacant land; where such real estate because of contamination has undergone
environmental testing and remediation and has received a "No Further Remediation Letter" from
the site remediation program.
Page 12 of 28

 a.

To be eligible for a Class C classification an applicant must have received a "No Further
Remediation Letter" confirming achievement of the remediation objectives based on the
industrial or commercial use.

b.

The owner of the property is rendered ineligible for the Class C classification by having
previously owned or operated the site, directly or indirectly, or having been a partner or being
associated through a family or business relationship with anyone who has owned or operated
the site, which ownership or operation caused the contamination which was remediated
pursuant to a site remediation, except for an employee who worked for an owner, as defined
herein, that operated the site. A present owner or employer who can successfully demonstrate
that the owner or employer was not responsible for the contamination may be eligible for
Class C classification.

c.

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has
determined that the incentive provided by Class C is necessary for development to occur on
that specific real estate and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be,
supports and consents to the Class C application to the Assessor. A certified copy of the
Ordinance or Resolution must be filed at the time of application for the Class C classification.
A copy of that Ordinance or Resolution, whichever is submitted, will be forwarded by the
Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the Board for distribution to the members of the County
Board from the affected districts.

d.

To qualify for the Class C classification, an application for Class C classification must be
made within one year of the receipt of the "No Further Remediation Letter". Where an
application for Class C classification encompasses less than all of the contiguous property
owned by the applicant upon which remediation has been completed, the one-year limitation
will be waived for any subsequent separate application for Class C classification for the
remainder or for additional portions of the property, provided that such subsequent
application is made within seven years.

e.

Additionally, to qualify for the Class C classification, the estimated remediation costs,
including site investigation, testing, oversight, remediation and removal costs, monitoring,
and engineering and legal fees associated with the remediation process, must total at least
$100,000.00, or alternatively, must total at least 25 percent of the market value of the real
estate as determined by the Assessor's property record card in the year prior to the
remediation, whichever is less.

f.

The initial Class C classification shall continue for a period of 12 years for both industrial
and commercial property. For industrial property, this incentive may be renewed during the
last year a property is entitled to a 16-percent assessment level, if the following requirements
are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal
of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area;
Page 13 of 28

 2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and supports and
consents to renewal of the Class C; and

3.

A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the Office
of the Assessor before the expiration of the 16-percent assessment level period.

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply and
qualify for Class C. Any property which applies for Class C treatment on or before the
adoption date of the ordinance from which this division is derived will be eligible for this
renewal term at the end of their original incentive period subject to the above requirements.
The notice of intent to request renewal which is filed with the Assessor's Office will be
forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the Board for distribution to members
of the County Board from the effected districts.
g.

If, on November 23, 1999, a property is receiving Class C treatment, but the assessment level
is higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and receive
a 16-percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the filing and
approval of the resolution and renewal application. However, if, as of that effective date, the
taxpayer's assessment is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the
incentive for subsequent years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal
of the incentive will be granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out
over the next two years, pursuant to Section 74-64. After such ten-year period expiration of
the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under this
Division.

h.

For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the
commercial Class C incentive will expire. The incentive classification will not be subject to
renewal and the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under this Division.

i.

The Assessor shall review the application and supporting documentation to determine
eligibility for the Class C classification. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with the
foregoing necessary to ensure proper review of all factors relevant to determine initial and
continued eligibility for the benefits provided under the Class C classification.

j.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
C recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
C site. Such reports shall be verified. Failure to file such reports within the time established
by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the nonfiling.

(9) Class 7a. Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, comprising a qualified commercial
development project, as determined pursuant to Section 74-65(a), located in an area in need of
commercial development, where total development costs, exclusive of land, do not exceed
$2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including the
land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, as defined in this Division, including
Page 14 of 28

 the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are
substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including
qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds vertical or
horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall
be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square
footage of the improvements on the parcel.
a.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 7a. The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting
to the Class 7a application. Notwithstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not
be determined to justify finding that a property is deemed "abandoned" where:
A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or
B.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

Such Resolution or Ordinance must be filed with the eligibility application. If the Ordinance
or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to
validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7a and
a Resolution to that effect shall be included with the Class 7a eligibility application filed
with the Assessor.
b.

This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy.
After such 12-year period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under
this Division.

c.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
7a recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
7a site. Such reports shall be verified. Failure to file such reports within the time established
by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the nonfiling.

(10) Class 7b. Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, as defined in this Division,
comprising a qualified commercial development project, as determined pursuant to Section 7465(a), located in an "area in need of commercial development", where total development costs,
exclusive of land, exceed $2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other
structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, as defined
herein, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their
value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation
adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for
Page 15 of 28

 the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears
to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.
a.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purposes of Class 7b. The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special
circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting
to the Class 7b application. Notwithstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not
be determined to justify finding that a property is deemed "abandoned" where:
A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or
B.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

Such Resolution or Ordinance must be filed with the eligibility application. If the ordinance
or resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to
validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7b
and a resolution to that effect shall be included with the Class 7b eligibility application filed
with the Assessor.
b.

This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy.

c.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
7b recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class
7b site. Such reports shall be verified. Failure to file such reports within the time established
by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the nonfiling.

(11) Class 7c or Commercial Urban Relief Eligibility ("CURE"). Real estate used primarily for
commercial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including
the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, including the land upon which such
property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to
the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including qualified land related to the
rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to
the improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the
square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements
on the parcel.
a.

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that:
(i)

The property, site, or area is deemed a redevelopment priority by the municipality, and
Page 16 of 28

 (ii) The municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the incentive
provided by Class 7c is necessary for development to occur on that specific real estate
and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents
to the Class 7c application to the Assessor.
In order to determine Class 7c applications, an application for Class 7c shall be submitted to
the Assessor and the Bureau of Economic Development. Upon receipt of the application and
all the necessary supporting data, the Economic Development Advisory Committee of the
County, within 30 days return the application to the Assessor with a finding stating whether
the conditions of Subsections (a)(1)-(a)(4) of this Section are present. The Assessor shall
review the application, supporting data, findings of the Committee and other appropriate
facts. Where the Assessor finds the conditions of Subsections (a)(1)-(a)(4) of this Section
exist, the Assessor shall, within 30 days of the receipt of the Committee's findings, certify
the commercial development project eligible for Class 7c treatment under this Division.
Where the Economic Development Advisory Committee does not return a finding stating
whether the conditions of Subsections (a)(1)-(a)(4) of this Section are present within 30 days,
and upon further application of the requesting party, the Assessor may review the
application, supporting data, and other appropriate facts and certify the commercial
development project eligible for Class 7c treatment and grant the incentive.
(1) That the Property's (the real estate that is subject of the Incentive application) Assessed
Value, Equalized Assessed Value or Real estate taxes for three of the last six years,
have declined or remained stagnant due to the depressed condition;
(2) There is a reasonable expectation that the development, re-development or
rehabilitation of the commercial development project is viable and likely to go forward
on a reasonably timely basis if granted Class 7c designation and will therefore result in
the economic enhancement of the property;
(3) Certification of the commercial development project for Class 7c designation will
materially assist development, redevelopment or rehabilitation of the property and the
commercial development property would not go forward without the full incentive
offered under Class 7c; and
(4) Certification of the commercial development project for Class 7c designation is
reasonably expected to ultimately result in an increase in real property tax revenue and
employment opportunities of the property.
b.

A certified copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be filed at the time of filing the
Class 7c eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later
than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 7c. If the
Resolution is not filed at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant may instead file,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, confirming that
a Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested.

Page 17 of 28

 c.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.

d.

Class 7c applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such
new construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 7c incentive. With respect
to abandoned property, the Class 7c application must be made to the Assessor prior to the
commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property. For the purpose of
this Incentive [Class 7c] "abandoned property" shall mean property where the buildings and
other structures, or portions thereof, have been vacant and unused for more than 12
continuous months and as established by rule of the Assessor.

e.

This classification shall continue for a period of three years from the date such new
construction (excluding demolition, if any) such substantial rehabilitation was completed
and initially assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial
occupancy.

f.

Class 7c incentives that are granted are renewable.
The incentive shall be phase out after five years, pursuant to Section 74-64(8). After
expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable
classification under this Division.

g.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility and continued eligibility for the benefits
provided under Class 7c.

h.

Class 7c Applications must be received by the Assessor's Office on or before November 30,
2019, to receive consideration.

i.

Renewal. The Class 7c Incentive shall be limited to only one renewal. The applicant may
apply for a renewal on or after the third year of the Incentive, but before the expiration of
the fifth year of the Incentive. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County as to
whether it will validate the renewal. The Incentive may be renewed unless otherwise limited
herein.

j.

Effective Year. The Class 7c Incentive shall be effective for the tax year the application for
the Incentive is filed. In addition, the Class 7c Incentive may be applied for only one year
prior to the tax year in which the Incentive was applied via a certificate of error.

(12) Class 8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all newly
constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or
abandoned property, as defined in this division, including the land upon which such property is
situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent
such rehabilitation has added to their value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation.
Page 18 of 28

 a.

b.

Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as
the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook
County Tax Reactivation Project or must be located in one of the following designated
geographical areas:
1.

An area which has been certified as in need of substantial revitalization in accordance
with the provisions of Section 74-65(b);

2.

An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on June 22,
1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the municipality in which such
real estate is located, or, if in an unincorporated area, the County must by lawful
Resolution determine that such real estate is consistent with an overall plan for the
rehabilitation of the area; or

3.

Any one of the following five townships: Bloom, Bremen, Calumet, Rich and Thornton.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine
that special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of
Class 8, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall
be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned"
for purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances
and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior
to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not be filed at the time of filing
the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution
is not filed at the time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time,
a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Page 19 of 28

 Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class
8 under the TEERM Program, if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings and
other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The finding
of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall be included
in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If the
Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is
required to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and present
such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its
determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well
as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not be filed at the time of filing
the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than
the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution
is not filed at the time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time,
a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Office on or before
November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.
c.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.

d.

This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy, or
in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice
of approval.

e.

Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent assessment level pursuant to
[Section] 74-64(11), if the following requirements are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal
of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
Page 20 of 28

 the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
or commercial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 8; and
3.

A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the
Assessor's Office before the expiration of the ten-percent assessment level period.

f.

Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program are not renewable. For
all other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the
property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.

g.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office
to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board
from the affected districts.

h.

If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant
to Section 74-64(11). After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate shall revert
to the applicable classification under this Division.

i.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the benefits provided under Class 8.

j.

The certification of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire five years
from the date such certification is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant of the date
of expiration of certification one year before the date of the expiration of the certification.
Such certification, pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one additional fiveyear period subject to reapplication by the appropriate local governing body within the period
from one year to six months prior to the expiration of the initial five-year period.

k.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
8 recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 8
site. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of
the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall
result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.

(13) Class 9. All real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classification under this division, provided
that such real estate, consisting of land and existing buildings and structures is multifamily
residential real estate; either has undergone major rehabilitation, or is new construction, or both;
has at least 35 percent of the dwelling units leased at rents affordable to low- or moderate-income
persons or households; and is in substantial compliance with all applicable local building, safety
and health requirements and codes.
a.

To qualify for the Class 9 classification, the applicant must:
1.

File an eligibility application with the Assessor prior to commencement of rehabilitation
and/or of new construction;
Page 21 of 28

 2.

Either undertake and complete a major rehabilitation of the subject property, or
undertake and complete construction of a new building;

3.

Maintain the subject property, including any new construction, in substantial
compliance with all local building, safety and health codes and requirements for the
duration of the Class 9 classification period;

4.

Lease, for the duration of the Class 9 classification period, at least 35 percent of the
dwelling units of the subject property, including any new construction, to tenants at
rents which will not exceed rents affordable to low- and moderate-income persons or
households;

5.

Agree to make a current listing of Class 9 tenants and their income available to the
Assessor upon request;

6.

Further agrees to annually provide the tenants with a list of the permissible Class 9
rents;

7.

Agree to notify tenants of the upcoming Class 9 expiration at least one year prior to the
termination of the incentive treatment; and

8.

File annually with the Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, for the
duration of the Class 9 classification period, a sworn statement verifying continuous
compliance with the Class 9 provisions of this Division.

b.

No applicant shall discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, marital status, religion,
national origin or ancestry, or on any other basis prohibited under Federal, State or local law.

c.

Upon completion of the major rehabilitation, the applicant must supplement the application
by submitting evidence showing that major rehabilitation did, in fact, occur, the date that the
major rehabilitation was completed and that the real estate complies with all applicable local
building, safety and health requirements and codes. Upon completion of the new
construction, the applicant must supplement the application by submitting an occupancy
permit showing the date that the new construction was completed and ready for occupancy,
and evidence that the real estate complies with all applicable local building, safety and health
requirements and codes.

d.

Beginning January 1, 2000, the Class 9 classification shall have an initial duration of ten
years from the date that the major rehabilitation was completed. That period may be extended
for additional ten-year periods if:
1.

An application is filed with the Assessor at least 12 months before the expiration of the
incentive period;

2.

The applicant presents evidence that the real estate currently complies with all
applicable local building, safety and health requirements and codes; and

Page 22 of 28

 3.

e.

The Assessor determines that all application qualifications, except the major
rehabilitation or new construction requirement, were maintained during the incentive
period.

When the Class 9 classification is due to expire or is terminated by action of the owner or
the Assessor, the property owner shall, in a manner and form determined by the Assessor,
notify all Class 9 tenants of the date of the termination of Class 9 classification. Once the
Class 9 classification is terminated, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification
under this Division.

(14) Class S. Real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classification under this division, consisting of
land and existing buildings and structures, which is has been subject to a Section 8 contract
renewal. The portion of the land and building eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion
as the number of Section 8 units bears to the total number of units. The proportion shall be applied
only to property used for residential purposes, and not to portions of the property, if any, used for
commercial purposes.
a.

Property qualifies for the Class S classification if its Section 8 contract has been renewed
pursuant to one of the following alternatives:
1.

HUD has approved renewal of the Section 8 contract under the mark up to market
option, after finding that:
i.

The property has received a physical inspection score of at least 60, in an
inspection by HUD's Real Estate Assessment Center, confirming that the property
is decent, safe, sanitary and in good repair with no uncorrected exigent health and
safety (EHS) violations;

ii.

The property does not have a low- and moderate-income use restriction that cannot
be eliminated by unilateral action by the owner. If, however, the current rent is
lower than the use restriction, HUD may use the mark up to market option to
increase the rents to the use restriction level, which would be a renewal qualifying
for the S classification; and

iii. A rent comparability study conducted by HUD has demonstrated that comparable
market rents are above 100 percent of the HUD Fair Market Rent.
2.

HUD has approved a contract renewal for five years of the Section 8 contract under the
mark up to market under HUD's discretionary authority, after finding that the property
meets at least one of the required criteria:
i.

A vulnerable population is affected,

ii.

There is a low vacancy rate in the area, which would make tenant based assistance
difficult to use, or a lack of comparable housing, or

iii. The project is a high priority for the local community, as demonstrated by a
contribution of state or local funds to the property.
Page 23 of 28

 3.

b.

HUD has approved renewal of a Section 8 contract for a not for profit corporation under
any available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8
Renewal Policy Guidelines.

Additional requirements for qualification for the S classification are:
1.

At least 20 percent of the living units must be Section 8 units for qualifying low- and
moderate-income persons.

2.

The owner must agree to retain at least the existing number of Section 8 units for at
least five years after the expiration of the expiring or expired Section 8 contract.

3.

For the duration of the Class S classification period, applicant must file annually with
the Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, a sworn statement
verifying continuous compliance with the Class S provisions of this Division.

4.

Applicant must agree to notify the Assessor's Office if the Section 8 contract is
terminated prior to its expiration date. Applicant shall provide to the Assessor's office
a copy of any notice of default or notice of abatement received from HUD.

c.

When the applicant applies to HUD for a contract renewal, no less than 120 days prior to the
expiration of the contract, the applicant shall notify the Assessor's Office of the application,
on a form provided by that office. Upon receiving approval of the contract renewal from
HUD, the applicant shall file an application for the incentive with the Assessor's Office, on
a form provided by that office. The application shall be supported by a copy of HUD's letter
approving the contract renewal and a copy of the executed renewal contract.

d.

Any property which, as of November 23, 1999, has an existing Section 8 contract with a
mark up to market option may apply for Class S classification for the any portion of the 2001
assessment year encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract
term, including any renewals approved with the mark up to market option. The classification
shall continue until the expiration or termination of the Section 8 contract.
Any property which, as of (DATE AMENDMENT APPROVED), has an existing Section 8
contract renewal may apply for Class S classification for any portion of the 2006 assessment
year encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract term,
including any renewals approved with the mark up to market option, mark up to market
option under HUD's discretionary authority or a Section 8 contract that has been renewed by
a not-for-profit corporation under any available option under HUD's renewal procedures as
described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal Policy Guidelines. The classification shall continue
until the expiration or termination of the Section 8 contract.

e.

The incentive may be renewed if the Section 8 contract is again renewed under any of the
following three options: 1) the mark up to market option; 2) the mark up to market option
under HUD's discretionary authority; or 3) by a not-for-profit corporation under any
available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal
Policy Guidelines. Upon filing an application with HUD, no less than 120 days prior to
Page 24 of 28

 termination of the contract, for renewal of the Section 8 contract, the taxpayer shall provide
notice to the Assessor's Office of its application for renewal. The taxpayer shall provide a
copy to the Assessor's Office of HUD's approval of the contract renewal, or notification of
other action.
f.

The Assessor's Office shall adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure
proper review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the
benefits provided under Class S.

(15) Class L. Real estate which is to be used for commercial or industrial purposes and which is
designated as Class 3, Class 4, Class 5a or Class 5b pursuant to this Division; is a landmark or
contributing building; and has undergone substantial rehabilitation. The substantial rehabilitation
must constitute an investment by the owner of at least 50 percent of the building's full market
value as determined by the Assessor in the assessment year prior to the commencement of the
substantial rehabilitation.
a.

Generally, the incentive shall apply only to the building and will not apply to the land
underneath the building. However, if the entire building has been vacant and unused for at
least 24 continuous months prior to the filing of the eligibility application with the Assessor,
the land upon which the building is situated shall also be eligible for the incentive.

b.

Prior to filing a Class L eligibility application with the Assessor, an applicant must obtain an
Ordinance or Resolution from the unit of local government in which the real estate is located,
which expressly states that the local government:
1.

Has determined that the incentive provided by Class L is necessary for the substantial
rehabilitation of the property;

2.

Supports and consents to the granting of the incentive; and

3.

Has reviewed and accepted its preservation commission's written recommendation of
the project for the Class L incentive. This recommendation will specify the project's
budget and proposed scope of work and will specify that the project will meets or
exceeds the Standards of the United States Department of the Interior for Rehabilitation,
Preservation, Restoration, and Reconstruction of historic properties.

c.

A certified copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be filed with the Assessor at the
time the Class L eligibility application is filed but the Ordinance or Resolution must be filed
with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class
change to Class L.

d.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is not filed at the time of the eligibility application is filed,
the applicant shall instead, include the following items with the eligibility application:
1.

A letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, confirming that a
Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested; and

2.

A copy of the preservation commission's recommendation of the project.
Page 25 of 28

 e.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected
districts.

f.

Additionally, to qualify a landmark building or contributing building for Class L
classification, an eligibility application must be made to the Assessor within one year prior
to the commencement of substantial rehabilitation. After the substantial rehabilitation has
been completed, the preservation commission shall review the project to determine that it is
eligible under Subsection (14) of this Section. The applicant must supplement the eligibility
application with a copy of the determination of the preservation commission prior to
classification of the real estate as Class L.

g.

The initial Class L classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such
substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed.

h.

For property which was initially classified as Class 3, 4 or 5b, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a 16-percent assessment level, if the following
requirements are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal
of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a resolution expressly stating that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial
use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and supports and
consents to renewal of the Class L; and

3.

A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the Office
of the Assessor before the expiration of the incentive period.
The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply
and qualify for Class L. The notice of intent to request renewal which is filed with the
Assessor's Office will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the
County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts.

i.

If, as of November 23, 1999, a property is receiving Class L treatment, but the assessment
level is higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and
receive a 16-percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the filing and
approval of the Resolution and renewal application. However, if as of the effective date, the
taxpayer's assessment is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the
incentive for subsequent years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal
of the incentive will be granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out
Page 26 of 28

 over the next two years, pursuant to Section 74-64. After expiration of the last incentive
period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under this Division.
j.

For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the
commercial Class L incentive will expire. The incentive classification will not be subject to
renewal and the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under this Division.

k.

The Assessor shall adopt rules consistent with the foregoing necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the benefits
provided under Class L.

l.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class
L recipients as to the continued landmark status of the property and the number of persons
employed at the Class L site. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules may result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.

Sec. 74-73. - Revocation or cancellation of incentive classification.
(a)The following Incentive Classifications are subject to revocation herein: Class 6b; Class 6b TEERM;
Class 6b SER; Class 7a; Class 7b; Class 7c; Class 8; and Class 8 TEERM.
(b)The incentive may be revoked under the following circumstances:
1.

By rule, as provided by the Assessor;

2.

By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance pursuant to a recommendation by the Bureau
of Economic Development;

3.

By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance at the request of the Municipality's submission
of a Municipal Resolution or Ordinance; and

4.

By request of the taxpayer to cancel.

In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classification shall be deemed null and void for the tax
year in which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance, the
taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the difference
in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had the subject property been assessed as a Class 5
property and the amount of taxes collected under the Incentive Classification as determined by the Assessor.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
.end
Legislative History :8/3/16 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Business and Economic
Development

Page 27 of 28

 _________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Murphy
Arroyo Jr., Butler, Gainer, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Steele

Page 28 of 28

 