MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
August 23 and 24, 2011
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
JOLIET, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, August 23, 2011 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, August 23, 2011 at approximately 9:30 A.M. the following Board members were
present: Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler and Joseph Moore. At 9:35 A.M. on
Tuesday, August 23, 2011, Member Gardner called the meeting to order. Pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat
gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the
items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject
matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. Chairman Jaffe entered the Board room at 10:30 A.M. The Board recessed at 11:30 A.M.
On Wednesday, August 24, 2011 the meeting reconvened at 9:50 A.M. at Harrah’s Joliet Casino
in Joliet, IL. Present were the following Board Members: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles
Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:40 A.M. The Board recessed and
went into open session at 10:59 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Jaffe, Members:
Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, and Joseph Moore.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of July 12, 2011. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of July 13, 2011. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT/COMMENTS –
Chairman Jaffe thanked Harrah’s Joliet Casino for hosting the August Regular Board meeting.
BOARD MEMBERS’ COMMENTS –
ADMINISTRATOR REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski commented on the Rivers Grand opening which was in mid July. The
Administrator also stated that staff reviewed all the comments on the remote access. The
Administrator also thanked Harrah’s Joliet for hosting the August Regular Board meeting. He
also commended the staff on the “World Series of Poker” room. Mark introduced Lynn Carter
as the new General Counsel of the IGB.
PUBLIC COMMENTARY –
●

Tom Swoik, Executive Director, Illinois Casino Gaming Association

PRESENTATION TO THE ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
BY TOM SWOIK, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ILLINOIS CASINO GAMING
ASSOCIATION
Good morning I am here today to update you on a few events that the members of the
Association have been involved in this year. Those events include the 44th Annual Chicago
Business Opportunity Fair, the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week August 1-5 and the
Associations sponsorship and participation in the Illinois State Black Chamber of Commerce
Convention.
The 44th Annual Chicago Business Opportunity Fair, organized by the Chicago Minority
Business Development Council took place at Navy Pier on April 18-20. For the fifth year the
members of the ICGA sponsored and participated in the events including having a booth at the
trade show. While I personally was not able to attend this year, the Association was represented
by our President Rich Laudon and the purchasing staff from the casinos.
Once again we had tremendous turnout at our booth. I believe numerous contacts were made
that will help us achieve our efforts to work with diverse vendors.
Secondly, I would like to update you on the AGA’s Responsible Gaming Education Week. The
American Gaming Association created Responsible Gaming Week in 1998 to increase awareness
of problem gambling among gaming employees and customers and to promote responsible
gaming nationwide. This year the event was held the week of August 1-5, this was the fourteenth
year for this event. This year the theme was “Know the Odds”. The theme built on last year’s of
“taking the mystery out of the slot machines”, and focused on educating employees and patrons
about the odds of all the games available in a casino.

2

 The AGA brochure “the house advantage: a Guide to understanding the odds” was the main
source of information dissemination.
The information provided again this year by the AGA included media advisory information,
Responsible Gaming Activities Workbooks, buttons, ribbons, stickers, brochures, posters, and
table tents for employee lounges. The objective of the campaign is to involve employees in
activities to promote responsible gaming. Employees are trained to explain to patrons the
significance of the buttons, stickers or ribbons they are wearing during Responsible Gaming
Education Week.
Prior to Responsible Gaming Education Week, management at the casinos provide training to
staff not only related to the week’s activities, but also as a refresher to the training every
employee receives related to responsible gaming.
Although Responsible Gaming Education Week is a special industry-wide collaborative effort,
we are actively involved in improving responsible gaming efforts every week throughout the
year.
Finally, I would like to inform you that the Association for the third year participated in the
annual Illinois State Black Chamber of Commerce Convention, as a member of the organization.
This year the conference was held August 10th and 11th at the Par-A-Dice Casino and Hotel in
Peoria.
I represented the Association at the event including making a brief presentation at one of the
breakfast functions, having an informational table and participating in the various meetings and
seminars. I believe the turnout at this year’s conference was significantly higher than the
previous two I had attended. Once again I believe this was a very worthwhile event and that I
made numerous contacts that will continue to help us in our recruiting efforts of both employees
and vendors.
I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today.
Member Moore commented on the Chicago Diversity Fair that was held at Navy Pier in April,
2011. He stated that it was a job well done.
●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel

The following is a synopsis of the Harrah’s presentation for their license renewal:
Darren VanDover, General Manager of Harrah’s Joliet addressed the Board. He welcomed the
Board and staff and then went on to introduce Senator Wilhelmi whom also addressed the Board.
Senator Wilhelmi welcomed the Board and staff and expressed his gratitude to Harrah’s Joliet
for the economic growth of the City of Joliet. He commented on the top notch facility of
Harrah’s Joliet; having employed hundreds of residents in the Joliet area.

3

 Tom Thanas, Joliet City Manager introduced the Mayor of Joliet, Tom Giarrante.
Mayor Giarrante addressed the Board and commended Harrah’s Joliet on being a wonderful
business partner, great corporate citizen and having a strong commitment to a diversified work
force. He also thanked the Board on having such a strong opposition to the new gaming
expansion bill.
The Chairman thanked the Mayor on commending the Board and stated that the IGB was not
consulted when this bill was drafted, he went on to state that this bill is not funded properly and
also undermines the IGB regulatory powers. He also commented that the legislators should learn
how strictly gaming is regulated in Illinois. The IGB is one of the most professional Boards in
the entire country.
Fred Keeton, Vice President of Financial, External Affairs and Chief Diversity Officer of
Caesars was introduced.
Mr. Keeton addressed the Board and stated the commitment to a diversified work force.
Member Moore commended Mr. Keeton and expressed thanks for making the trip to Chicago.
A power point presentation was then initiated.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Empress Casino Corporation d/b/a Hollywood Casino Joliet – Cecilia S. Lim, Internal
Auditor - Level One
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board approve Cecilia S. Lim as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Internal Auditor for Hollywood Casino Joliet in Joliet, Illinois. Member
Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

●

The Rock Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel – Therrin Protze,
President, Executive Vice President and COO – Level One and President of DNC
Gaming & Entertainment of Illinois, Inc. – Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
that the Board approve Therrin Protze as an Occupational Licensee Level One in
the position of Executive Vice President and COO for The Rock Island Boatworks,
Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel in Rock Island, Illinois.
Additionally, based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member
Winkler moved to approve Therrin Protze as a Key Person of The Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Jumers Casino & Hotel in his position as President of DNC
Gaming & Entertainment of Illinois, Inc. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

4

 ●

Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino and
Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel –
Timothy Richard Donovan, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief
Regulatory & Compliance Officer of Caesars Entertainment Operating Company, Inc. –
Key Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
to approve Timothy Richard Donovan as a Key Person of Southern Illinois
Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino and Des Plaines
Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel, in his
position as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Regulatory &
Compliance Officer of Caesars Entertainment Operating Company, Inc. Member
Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Ownership Approval
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
to approve the following individuals, who intend to indirectly own interests in
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC through High Plaines Gaming, LLC.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Scott Strusiner
Paul Seeman
David Patent
Dennis Carlin
Jeffery Quicksilver
Kenneth Weaver
Ira Schulman
Daniel Kotcher; and
Eric Mogentale.

Member Gardner further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to
approve the corresponding redemption, issuance, and/or transfer of interests in
High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent with the financing documents previously
provided to the Board. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Ownership Approval
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved
to approve the following individuals and trusts, who are “females” as defined under
the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and who intend to indirectly own interests in
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC through High Plaines Gaming, LLC.
1. Fern Carlin
2. Lisa Dudash; and

5

 3. Amy C. Close 2006 Living Trust.
Member Moore further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to
approve the corresponding redemption, issuance, and/or transfer of interests in
High Plaines Gaming, LLC consistent with the financing documents previously
provided to the Board. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Ownership Approval
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
to approve the following individuals and trusts, who are “minority persons” or
“females” as defined under the Illinois Riverboat Gambling Act and who intend to
indirectly own interests in Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC through PG
Casino Investment LLC.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

PG Family 2011 Trust
HCB Family 2011 Trust
PGCI 2011 Trust
Christian Alas
Claudia Bautista
Adeltrudes Bruce
Priscilla Flojo
The minor children of Maria Pereira; and
Necy Santos.

Member Gardner further moved pursuant to Section 3000.235 of the Adopted Rules to
approve the corresponding issuance, redemption, and/or transfer of interests in PG
Casino Investment, LLC consistent with the financing documents previously
provided to the Board. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC – Owner’s License
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved
pursuant to section 3000.230(g)(1) to approve and issue the Owner’s License to
Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines,
effective August 2011 for a term of one (1) year expiring in August 2012.
Furthermore, Member Winkler moved to approve and designate the following
individuals, business entities, trusts, positions and institutional investors as Key
Persons of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

High Plaines Gaming, LLC
Midwest Gaming Holdings, LLC
Midwest Gaming Borrower, LLC
CVG Chicago Gaming, LP
CVG Chicago Gaming, LLC
6

 6. Clairvest Equity Partners IV, LP
7. CEP IV Co-Investment LP
8. Healthcare of Ontario Pension Plan Trust Fund
(HOOPP)
9. Neil Bluhm
10. Neil G. Bluhm Family Descendants Trust
11. Gregory Carlin
12. CEO – Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC
13. David Patent
14. COO - Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC
15. Rush Street Gaming, LLC
16. Rush Street Gaming Partners, LLC
17. Andrew Bluhm
18. 2002 AGB Family Dynasty Trust
19. Leslie Bluhm
20. 2002 LNB Family Dynasty Trust
21. Meredith Bluhm-Wolf
22. Meredith A. Bluhm-Wolf 2006 Family GST Trust
23. Des Plaines Management, LLC
24. Benjamin Jeffrey Parr
25. Kenneth Rotman
26. Steven Frenkiel
27. Casino Investors, LLC
28. Prashant Gupta; and
29. PG Casino Investment, LLC.
Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
●

Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve 263 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 445
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the
following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend denial
and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendations:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Justin Michael Torres;
Gregory Andrew Mandrek;
Michael A. Benitez; and
Breland L. McKnight.

7

 Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
At 11:59 A.M. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Moore seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

8

 