Closed Session Minutes
Video Gaming Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board
Chicago, Illinois
December 15, 2011
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) convened for a Video Gaming Meeting on December 15,
2011. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board conference
room: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Member Michael Holewinksi, Member Lee Gould, Member
Maribeth Vander Weele and Member Z Scott.
The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel
Lynn Carter, Legal Counsel Emily Mattison, Legal Counsel William Bogot, Deputy
Administrator/Enforcement Patrick Kimes, Deputy Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel,
Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit Manager Jim Lopinski,
Project Manager Mark Stevens, SEP Director Gene O’Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica
Biddings. Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed participated by phone.
Also in attendance were Agent Brian Obremski and Agent Ruben Flores.
At 12:40 P.M. the meeting was called to order, Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (14) and
(21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gould
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on the agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1.
Personnel matters;
2.
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3.
Closed session minutes.
Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular Meeting
of September 19 and 20, 2011. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call.
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular Meeting
of November 28, 2011. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Spielo International Canada ULC and its request for a
Manufacturer’s License.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on AAA City Vendors Gaming LLC and its request for a
Terminal Operator’s License.

 Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Illinois Video Slot Management and its request for a Terminal
Operator’s License.
At 1:50 P.M. the Board recessed.
At 2:08 P.M. the Board reconvened.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Diamond Gaming of Illinois, Inc. and its request for a
Terminal Operator’s License.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Renville Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator’s License.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Paramount Gaming of Illinois, Inc. and its request for a
Terminal Operator’s License.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Heck Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator’s
License.
Scott Deubel briefed the Board on Coastal Amusement Distributor and its request for a
Manufacturer’s License.
At 3:00 P.M. Member Gould moved to adjourn. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Biddings
Secretary to the Board

2

 