CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, October 10 2017
Members Present
Committee Members:

On the Phone:
Excused:
Unexcused:
Facilitator:

Pierre Bance
Angela Davis (Acting Chair for this meeting).
Melissa Fuller
Christina McGleam
Susan Riley
Donna K. Shaw
Allen West
Grace Kaminkowitz
Bryen Yunashko
Carl Gomez
Michael Connelly, Vice President Service
Planning

Angela Davis was asked to chair this meeting.
Ms. Davis called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves.
Announcements
 Ms. Fuller stated that the National Federation of the blind is having its annual
State Convention from October 27th to 29th at the Marriott in Naperville.
Reservations are blocked at the hotel for $104 per night.
Approval of Minutes
 The July 10, 2017 Meeting Minutes were sent to all Committee members in
advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Chairman Davis called for a motion to approve the minutes as submitted. Ms.
Kaminkowitz moved and Mr. West approved the motion. All voted to approve the
minutes as submitted.
ADA Advisory Committee Update from CTA’s Board Chairman’s Office.
 Sherry Thornton Pierce, Chief of Staff to CTA Chairman Peterson was unable to
attend the meeting. Ms. Carole Moray, Chief Planning Officer provided the
update for the Chairman’s office.
 First item Ms. Moray discussed was “... with a number of vacancies on the ADA
Advisory Committee [the] Chairman's office will be recruiting new members. …
We plan on submitting application materials using a list from the Mayor's Office
for People with Disabilities, [as well as other lists]. If you know anyone who may
be interested, you can have them reach out directly to Amy Serpe, our Manager
1

 







of ADA Compliance Programs, either by phone or by e-mail, and she can provide
the application materials.”
The second item Ms. Moray discussed was that, “ . . the Chairman also plans to
appoint a Chairman and a Vice Chairman on the Advisory Committee ... so if
anyone … is interested … I would appreciate if you could also reach out to Amy
either by phone or e-mail and let her know your interest.”
The third item Ms. Moray discussed was “ ... the Chairman's office also continues
to review the Advisory Committee's Bylaws to determine whether changes are
needed ... any changes would need the approval of the Advisory Committee, [as
well as the CTA Board of Directors]. So please reach out to Amy with any
thoughts as to changes.”
The final item that was discussed was in regards to possible changes to the
Public Comments process which happens at each ADA Advisory Committee
meeting. Again, the Chairman’s Office will review and Committee members will
also have a chance to comment before any changes are made.
Ms. Fuller asked about the application process if interested in the ADA Advisory
Committee Chairman or Vice Chairman positions. Ms. Moray explained that
anyone interested should let Amy Serpe know of their interest. Then, “The
chairman's office will handle the process. They may ask for a copy of your
resume, if it's not on file, and I would expect they would probably contact you for
an interview by phone, but the way the Bylaws currently work, CTA board
chairman, Terry Peterson, oversees this Committee, and he's responsible for the
appointment of any new members and the appointment of a Chairman and Vice
Chair.”

General Construction Report Update
 Mr. Robert Wittmann, Vice President of Capital Construction presented the
report.
 95th Station: “ ... We have completed the structural steel for the south terminal
building ... We have completed the concrete floors for both the bridge extension
at 95th Street and the south bus bridge ... Canopy steel for the bus terminal
areas is ongoing. Installation is complete on the south end of it. East and west
sides should start shortly ... Work on the east side of the north terminal
foundation is also completed . . . Now moved over to the west side to do some of
the foundation on the west side for the new north terminal ... The design building
contractor continues to bid on trade packages for both terminals as we move to
the final process for the design of the north terminal.”
 Wilson Station: “On September 18th we placed the new track four into service,
which was the final track of the four new tracks there ... On September 20th we
opened the new main station house for customers, … that provided access to the
west platform only; however, we did open the new elevator and escalator there at
the Wilson station ... Work continues on the remaining areas of the main station
house as well as the north Aux station and the Sunnyside Aux station ... We also
continue to work on the Gerber Building restoration as part of that project.”
 Brown Line Signal Project: “A contractor continues to hang signal cable in the
brown line corridor between Armitage and The Mart ... We completed the
2

 












structural steel for Willow Relay House … that houses all of the signal equipment
… along the right-of-way.”
Quincy Station: “ ... Foundation work for the two new elevators at Quincy, that
continues, one on each side of the street. ... Work on the station houses up at
platform level will also begin shortly to accommodate the new pathway to the
elevators.”
Illinois Medical District Station - IMD: “The new Damen station house was
opened … on July 24th. ... we subsequently closed down the Paulina and Ogden
station houses so we could do the work there. The Ogden station … gets the
new elevator. We just completed elevator caisson work. That's the foundation
that will support the new elevator there.”
CDOT Projects: “ ... the new station Washington and Wabash was opened on
August 31. ... They are still doing punch list work at the station. ... They have
begun demolition on the Randolph/Wabash station. ... That demolition work will
be ongoing through the end of November.”
Mr. Wittmann concluded his report and asked if the Committee had any
questions.
Ms. Fuller stated that the new Washington/Wabash station is very accessible
however she recommends adding colored/contrasting strips to the staircases as
this would enhance usage by people who have visual impairments. She added
that people who have visual impairments often also have problems with depth
perception. When standing at the top of the stairs it looks like a sliding board
looking down and is intimidating to someone who cannot see well.
Mr. West had two comments. He mentioned how the description of the
Washington/Wabash station Amy Serpe sent out prior to its opening was very
helpful. He also asked for an estimate of when the 95th Station would be finished.
Mr. Wittmann stated the south terminal would open in the first quarter of 2018
and the whole project should be done by the end of 2018.
Ms. Davis had a question on when the sidewalk would be finished around the
east side of Broadway near Leland by the Wilson Station. Mr. Wittmann stated
that work should be completed around the first two weeks of January.

Bus Express Signage Issue Update
 Jackie Johnston, Coordinator AVAS Systems gave the update to the Committee
in place of Mike Hanes, Manager Transit Systems Support, who spoke at the
July meeting.
 The overall issue relates to how someone who cannot hear announcements can
be notified that a bus is running express or that there is a change in the route.
While there is an alert sign, it is brief.
 Ms. Johnston’s purpose at this meeting was to re-demonstrate 2 options for
providing an alert signal, explain how PSA’s work and ask for feedback from the
Committee as to which alert signal is preferred.
 Ms. Johnston explained that there are various kinds of PSA (Public Service
Announcements). Some repeat every 15 minutes and others can be manipulated
by the Operator selecting a specific announcement such as “To improve service
reliability, this bus is going to run express.”
3

 











The issue related to the bus express announcement is that there is no strong
visual prior to the announcement that someone who is deaf or hard-of-hearing
can recognize.
Ms. Johnston demonstrated 2 options of flashing lights which might precede an
audio announcement so that someone who cannot hear will know that something
along the route is changing. The customer can then ask the Operator or others
for clarification.
Ms. Johnston stated that, “The request has been that there will be a flashing light or maybe dots
playing, something to get the attention [of customers] before the announcement plays. We can
do this. It will take probably six to eight months to develop the technology with our vendor, and I
would like to demonstrate to you what the two options are.
Ms. Johnston described both demos as she was doing them: “So the electronic
display is a rectangular box, and the first one is dividing the box in half and flashing half
of the lights on one side and half of the lights on the other back and forth, and the
second option basically is like dots blinking on and off, on and off, on and off, and
then you would hear the announcement.”
The Committee favored Option One flashing the lights back and forth several
times to get people’s attention.
Ms. Fuller asked if the flashing sign could somehow be connected to the other
lights on the bus to improve recognition by customers that a message is coming.
Ms. Johnston stated she would make note of that suggestion.
Ms. Shaw also asked if the flashing lights/sign can be by the back door as well as
in the front. Again Ms. Johnston will note the suggestion.
Ms. Riley stated that having the flashing lights would be helpful as it designates
that a message is coming. She also suggested that this not be too fast,
especially if it goes through the other bus lights as such movement might be
disturbing to individuals who have epilepsy. (Could trigger a seizure).

Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members
in advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting
packets.
 Andre Cozzo, Senior Manager Escalator/Elevator Maintenance reported to the
Committee on the status of the system’s elevator and escalator efficiencies.
 For the 3rd quarter of 2017 vs. Q-3 in 2016, the following reflects Elevator
Efficiencies:

July 2017 = 99.5% vs. July 2016 = 99.5% vs.

Aug 2017 = 99% vs. Aug 2016 = 98.4%

Sept 2017 = 98.6% vs. Sept 2016 = 98.9%
 For the 3rd quarter of 2017 vs. Q-3 in 2016, the following reflects Escalator
Efficiencies:

July 2017 = 96.8% vs. July 2016 = 97%

Aug 2017 = 97.4% vs. Aug 2016 = 96.6%

Sept 2017 = 92.5% vs. Sept 2016 = 96.3%

4

 



The data also included information on the following Escalator Reconditioning
Projects.

O’Hare Blue Line – completed March 3, 2017.

Loyola Red Line – completed June 9, 2017.

Chicago Blue Line – Began April 11, 2017 and anticipated completion is
January 2018.

Montrose and River Road Blue Line – Anticipated start dates are in May
and October 2018, respectively.
There were no questions or comments from Committee members for Mr. Cozzo.

Customer Service Report
 The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance
for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Kate Kennelly, Manager Customer Feedback Programs presented the Customer
Service Report to the Committee.
 Ms. Kennelly reported that, “Overall, the third quarter complaints are up ten
percent from the previous period. There is a seasonal component here. It really is
not uncommon to see an up pitch in the third quarter. As compared to the same
period last year we are actually down 11 percent. 88 complaints accounted for
five percent of all complaints. 4,232 total complaints, 215 of which were ADA
related. 88 complaints did peak in the month of July totaling 89, but we have
seen some improvements since then. In reviewing the data, complaints
increased in most areas, but one category stands out. In the third quarter we
logged ten complaints about bringing service animals on board, which is up from
four in the previous period. The good news here is that although complaints
peaked in July of seven, we saw some great improvements since then. We only
had two complaints in August and one in September. These occurred on various
bus [routes] and at two rail stations as well. The ADA complaints issue is
consistently our highest category. Last quarter there were a total of 70
complaints lodged last year, which is up slightly from the previous period ... The
[most] common [of] them included an Operator not waiting for passengers,
employees not assisting as expected or overshooting a stop. ... Passenger
complaints were down six percent from the second quarter with a total of 34, and
complaints about issues with ramps on buses were down 27 percent totaling
eight for the third quarter.”
 The following are the 3rd quarter statistics regarding disability-related Customer
Service complaints.

Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-3 2017 (July, August and
September 2017), = 4,232 of which 215 were ADA related complaints.

Q-3, 2017 Bus Related Complaints: Jul. 73, Aug. 48 and Sep. 53 totaling
174.

Q-3, 2017 Rail Related Complaints: Jul. 16, Aug. 11 and Sep. 14 totaling
41.

During the 3 month 2017 Q-3 period, there were a total of 215 ADA
Compliance Complaints which include things such as rude operator, pass
up, refusing a service animal, and priority seating.
5

 








Additional Q-3 (July-September) Categories include:

ADA Compliance accounted for 70 complaints in 2017 vs. 68 in
2016.

Rude Operator totaled 50 complaints in 2017 vs. 65 in 2016.

Pass up totaled 34 complaints in 2017 vs. 42 in 2016.

Lift/Ramps totaled 8 complaints in 2017 vs. 17 in 2016.
Ms. Fuller asked what department the CSAs were under to which Ms. Kennelly
explained that those positions were under Rail Operations not Customer Service.
Ms. Riley had a question regarding priority seating and the Operator’s
involvement in making passengers move. Ms. Kennelly replied that the Operators
are supposed to tell the customer to comply, most do some don’t. If they don’t
comply the Operator is supposed to push a button to let the Control Center know.
Ms. Riley also asked what should happen if there is a fight or argument on a
bus? Should the police be called and what if the Bus Operator does nothing to
intervene? Ms. Patricia Thomas-Miller, Vice President of Bus Operations was in
the audience and stated that the Bus Operator should contact Communications
at the Control Center for instructions as to how to handle.
Ms. Davis asked about what kind of complaints are there about Service Animals
to which Ms. Kennelly stated that in general, customers were able to board only
after having a conversation with the Bus Operator who wasn’t sure if the animal
was a service animal.

Facilitator Report
 Ms. Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs presented the following
topics and updates:
 The CTA participated in the following summer events:

IL Dept. of Human Services Bi-Annual ADA Anniversary Celebration on
July 20th. the CTA shared an Information Resource Table with the RTA &
Pace to provide a variety of transit information for both Mainline Transit
and Paratransit services.

Disability Pride Parade Annual Event on July 22nd. The CTA had a Mini
Train in the Parade – ADA Committee member, Melissa Fuller joined us.
Also provided at the Daley Plaza during the after parade event was an OnSite Instruction Bus and Informational Resource Table again with
representatives from RTA & Pace/Paratransit.
 A second USTC-Union Station Transit Center Terminal On-Site Familiarization
Experience which was requested by the Blind/VI Community will be held on
Thursday, October 26th, from 4:30 – 6 p.m. All are welcome to attend. If
accommodations other than sighted guides are needed, please contact the ADA
Dept.
 Additional familiarization events can be done for other new stations such as the
Washington/Wabash Station, etc. as needed.
 Ms. Serpe also noted that the ADA Department at CTA is working on a Customer
Services Complaints project to more clearly classify issues related to customers
with disabilities on CTA’s bus and rail systems. A detailed data base will expand
the complaint reports to include the nature of the complaint. The data base will
6

 



be used to analyze different complaints, examine current policies and provide
additional training as warranted. Suggestions from this Committee will also be
solicited.
Ms. Serpe reviewed the dates for the 2018 meetings. The dates are the 2 nd
Monday of January, April, July and October. (If the Monday is a holiday which
generally occurs in October, then the meeting is on Tuesday) 2018 Dates are:
Monday, January 8th, Monday, April 9th, Monday, July 9th and Tuesday, October
9th. These dates will be posted on CTA’s Website.
Ms. Shaw asked Ms. Serpe if her service dog which is a hearing is dog is allowed
on the bus or in taxi cabs, and on the street. Ms. Serpe replied that a service
animal is allowed on all CTA vehicles and property. Ms. Serpe explained the
Service Animal policy to the group: “A service animal is able to be on any of CTA properties
or any of our vehicles, anyplace in CTA, and here is what you are allowed to be asked. …
Question number one, … Are you a person with a disability if it is not apparent, and you do not have
to reveal what the disability is. It's a yes or no response. … If you have an animal with you, they
are allowed to ask what has the animal been trained to do to support you with your disability? [You
explain how the dog is trained to help you]. … The animal does need to be under the control
of the person [with the disability] at all times. It is not allowed to wonder around the station or an "L"
car or a bus. … This is the policy that all of our bus rail and CSA [and other CTA] personnel
have been taught.”

Public Comment
 Heather Armstrong, has been hearing on the news and through texts that people
are jumping on the tracks at the Washington and Wabash station. She noted that
we should educate people and help them so they don’t kill themselves on the
tracks.
 Garland Armstrong, former CTA ADA Advisory Committee member is concerned
about the amount of people that go under the gates rushing to catch a train,
especially at the Brown and Pink Lines (where tracks are at street level). Mr.
Garland suggested the CTA sets up a workshop to educate people so they don’t
kill themselves or hurt others.
 Ms. Fuller responded to Mr. and Ms. Armstrong’s comments, suggesting that
maybe the CTA could use the TV monitors (screens at rail stations that provide
tracking/schedule information) to make safety announcements.
 Mr. Hastalis had concerns about operators who preempt the arrival
announcement with the chimes and doors closing. Due to this customers are
unable to hear the rest of the announcement giving the route and destination. Mr.
Hastalis also wanted to note that Washington and Wabash is a very big spacious
station and that the National Federation of the Blind are very concerned about
transit safety. Mr. Hastalis offered to help anyone who is visually impaired to
show them around the rail system.
 Scott Figved wanted to thank the supervisors at Jefferson Park for writing tickets
to the Lyft drivers that pull into the bus area of the station. He suggested that it
would be good to have someone at Ogilvie. Mr. Figved suggests that employees
have some training on bodily fluids on contact with passengers. He also wanted
to note that his wheelchair has been damaged due to an Operator not lowering
7

 


the ramp. He was unable to get the badge number of the driver. (CTA did call this
customer back for follow-up).
Ms. Riley wanted to know on the bus specifically what is the policy for example if
a baby vomited on the bus. Mr. Connelly noted he will be glad to get the bus and
rail procedures and policy for the next meeting.
Ms. Riley also asked for clarification regarding, “What about the ramp being too low so
the ramp is up? That happens to me a lot. The bus driver puts the bus too low, and the curb is too
high, so the ramp is on an angle going upwards, and I'm concerned about bending it, because my
chair is very heavy.”

Od Business
 There was no old business.
New Business
 Ms. Davis would like for someone to address Ms. Fuller’s comment regarding the
lack of contrast on the stairs at the Washington/Wabash Station at the next
meeting.
Adjournment
 Ms. Davis noted the next meeting will be Monday January 8 th, 2018.
 Ms. Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Bance moved to adjourn the
meeting and Ms. Riley seconded. All voted, “Aye,” and the meeting adjourned at
2:47pm.

ajs 1-5-18
8

 