REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ZONING AND BUILDING
PUBLIC HEARING
December 14, 2011
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele
and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Collins (1)

Court Reporter:

Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Zoning and Building of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Wednesday, December 14, 2011 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. for a Public Hearing in
the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following item and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
315462

VACANT BUILDING ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Bridget Gainer, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Jesus
G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Timothy O. Schneider, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims,
Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
VACANT BUILDING ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 102
Buildings and Building Regulations, Sections 102-2 through 102-24, of the Cook County
Code are hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 102- 2.

Short title.

This section shall be known and may be cited as "The Cook County Vacant
Building Ordinance.”
Sec. 102-3.

Applicability.

This ordinance applies to:

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 2
(1) buildings within Cook County, located outside of the limits of a municipality,
and
(2) buildings within Cook County located within the boundaries of a participating
municipality.
Sec. 102-4.

Definitions.

The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section,
except where otherwise specifically indicated.
Appropriate enforcing authority means the:
(1)

Department of Building and Zoning, where the building is located in an
unincorporated area of Cook County; and

(2)

persons authorized by a participating municipality to enforce the Cook
County Vacant Building Ordinance located within the boundaries of that
participating municipality.

Default means, with respect to a residential building containing four or fewer
dwelling units, when the mortgagor is 60 days past due on the mortgagor’s obligation to
make a scheduled payment under a mortgage or a mortgage note. With respect to all other
residential buildings, “default” shall mean when the mortgagor is 90 days past due on the
mortgagor’s obligation to make a scheduled payment under a mortgage or a mortgage note.
Enforcing authority means the Department of Building and Zoning, with respect to
vacant buildings located in unincorporated areas in Cook County and, with respect to
buildings located within a participating municipality, persons authorized by a participating
municipality to enforce the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance, within the
boundaries of that participating municipality.
Mortgage means any consensual lien created by a written instrument which grants
or retains an interest in real estate to secure a debt or other obligation. The term includes,
without limitation:
(1)

mortgages securing reverse mortgage loans;

(2)

mortgages securing revolving credit loans;

(3)

every deed conveying real estate, although an absolute conveyance in its
terms, which shall have been intended only as a security in the nature of a
mortgage; and

(4)

equitable mortgages.

Mortgagee means:

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 3
(1)

the holder of an indebtedness or obligee of a non-monetary obligation
secured by a mortgage or any person designated or authorized to act on
behalf of such holder;

(2)

any person claiming through a mortgagee as successor; and

(3)

any person identified as such in a recorded document which has not been
released, assigned, or superseded of record.

Mortgagor means the person whose interest in the real estate is the subject of the
mortgage and any person claiming through a mortgagor as successor. Where a mortgage is
executed by a trustee of a land trust, the mortgagor is the trustee and not the beneficiary or
beneficiaries.
Municipality means an enforcing authority, village, or incorporated town in Cook
County.
Owner means any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
(1)

Has legal title to the property, with or without accompanying actual
possession thereof: or

(2)

Has charge, care or control of the property as owner or agent of the owner
or an executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the
owner: or

(3)

Is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing, controlling the
property or collecting rents, or is any other person managing or controlling
the property or is any person entitled to the control or direction of the
management or disposition of the property.

Participating municipality means a municipality which has entered into an
intergovernmental agreement with Cook County to enforce the Cook County Vacant
Building Ordinance within the boundaries of that municipality.
Property means any real, residential, commercial or industrial property, or portion
thereof, located within unincorporated Cook County or within the boundaries of a
participating municipality, including buildings or structures situated on the property.
Residential property means buildings of three stories or less in height where the
whole building or parts thereof are designed or used as residential units or auxiliary uses to
a residential unit.
Winterize means cleaning all toilets and completely draining all plumbing and
heating systems

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 4
Sec. 102-5.

Obligation to register.

(a)
The owner of any building that has become vacant shall within 30 days,
after the building becomes vacant or within 30 days after assuming ownership of the
building, whichever is later, file a registration statement, including proof of liability
insurance in the amount prescribed in Section 102-14, for each such building with the
Department of Buildings and Zoning on forms provided by that department for such
purposes and pay a registration fee in the amount prescribed in Section 102-6, for each
registered building; provided, however, that all eleemosynary, religious, educational,
benevolent or charitable associations organized on a not-for-profit basis and all
governmental agencies shall be exempt from the payment of the registration fee. The
registration shall remain valid for six months from the date of registration. The owner
shall be required to renew the registration every six months as long as the building remains
vacant. There shall be no fee for such renewal. The owner shall notify the Department of
Building and Zoning, within 20 days, of any change in the registration information by
filing an amended registration statement on a form provided by the Department of Building
and Zoning for such purposes. The registration statement shall be deemed prima facie
proof of the statements therein contained in any administrative enforcement proceeding or
court proceeding instituted by the County against the owner or owners of the building.
Registration of a building in accordance with this section shall be deemed to satisfy the
registration requirement set forth in Article V—Administration and Enforcement, Section
5.3-4 of the Cook County Building Code.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, “vacant” means a building which is
lacking habitual presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises, or
at which substantially all lawful business or construction operations or residential
occupancy has ceased, or which is substantially devoid of content. In determining whether
a building is vacant, it is relevant to consider, among other factors, the percentage of
overall square footage of the building or floor to the occupied space, the condition and
value of any items in the building and the presence of rental or for sale signs on the
property; provided that a residential property shall not be deemed vacant if it has been used
as a residence by a person entitled to possession for a period of at least three months within
the previous nine months and a person entitled to possession intends to resume residing at
the property; and further provided that multi-family residential property containing ten or
more dwelling units shall be considered vacant when ninety percent or more of the
dwelling units are unoccupied.
Sec. 102-6.

Owner Registration fee.

The registration for each registered building shall be $500 (the “base registration
fee”). All fees and fines laid out in this section are in addition to any fees and fines in other
sections of the Cook County Building and Zoning Ordinance. The base registration fee set
forth above in this section shall be doubled if the applicable initial registration takes place
not through voluntary and timely compliance, but as the result of an enforcing authority’s
identification of a violation of this ordinance. Such doubled fee shall not be subject to
reduction, during the relevant period, for having registered or renewed following the
issuance of a citation for failure to register or renew.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 5
Sec. 102-7.

Obligation to permit access for purposes of inspection.

After filing a registration statement the building owner shall provide access to the
appropriate enforcing authority to conduct an exterior and interior inspection of the
building to determine compliance with this ordinance, following reasonable notice, during
the period covered by the initial registration or any subsequent renewal.
Sec. 102-8.

Owner Obligation to appoint agent.

In addition to other information required by the Commissioner of Building and
Zoning, the registration statement shall include the name, street address and telephone
number of a natural person 21 years of age or older, designated by the owner or owners as
the authorized agent for receiving notices of code violations and for receiving process, in
any court proceeding or administrative enforcement proceeding, on behalf of such owner
or owners in connection with the enforcement of this Code. This person must maintain an
office in Cook County, Illinois, or must actually reside within Cook County, Illinois. An
owner who is a natural person and who meets the requirements of this subsection as to
location of residence or office may designate himself as agent. By designating an
authorized agent under the provisions of this subsection the owner is consenting to receive
any and all notices of code violations concerning the registered building and all process in
any court proceeding or administrative enforcement proceeding brought to enforce code
provisions concerning the registered building by service of the notice or process on the
authorized agent. Any owner who has designated an authorized agent under the provisions
of this subsection shall be deemed to consent to the continuation of the agent’s designation
for the purposes of this subsection until the owner notifies the Department of Building and
Zoning of a change of authorized agent or until the owner files a new registration
statement. Any owner who fails to register a vacant building under the provisions of this
subsection shall further be deemed to consent to receive, by posting at the building, any
and all notices of code violations and all process in an administrative proceeding brought
to enforce code provisions concerning the building.
Sec. 102-9.

Owner Obligation to post a sign.

The owner of any building that has become vacant shall, within 30 days:
(a)
Post a sign affixed to the building indicating: the vacant building
registration number and the name, address and telephone number of the owner or the
owner’s authorized agent for the purpose of service of process. The name, address and
telephone number of a person responsible for day-to-day supervision and management of
the building, if such person is different from the owner the authorized agent shall be
indicated on the sign as well. The sign shall be no smaller than 8.5 inches by 11 inches and
placed in such a location so as to be legible from the nearest public street or sidewalk,
whichever is nearer; and
(b)
Maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain the
sign, until the building is again occupied or demolished.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 6
Sec. 102-10. Owner Obligation to secure building.
The owner of any building that has become vacant, and any person maintaining,
operating or collecting rent for any building that has become vacant shall, within 30 days,
do the following to enclose and secure the building:
(a)
Secure building so that all building openings shall be closed and secured,
using secure doors, windows without broken or cracked panes, commercial-quality steel
security panels, filled with like-kind material as the surrounding wall, or boarded with
plywood installed and secured in accordance with the rules and regulations issues by the
Department of Building and Zoning or appropriate enforcing authority, as applicable to
prevent entry by unauthorized persons.
(b)
Secure the building so that at least one building entrance shall be
accessible from the exterior and secured with a door that is locked to allow access only to
authorized persons. If two or more exit doors exist, a minimum of two exit doors shall be
available to exit from the interior of the building, with at least one exit door available per
150 linear feet of horizontal travel at ground-floor level.
(c)
Maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain the
sign until the building is reoccupied or demolished, repaired or completed with all permits
required by the enforcing authority. If during the registration period and following the
initial boarding and securing of the property in compliance with this section, the enforcing
authority notifies the mortgagee in writing that the property was found open or it has been
judicially or administratively found to be open, in each case on two separate occasions at
least 30 days apart, then the building shall thereafter be secured with only commercialquality metal security panels or a method deemed equivalent by the enforcing authority.
(d)
Foundations, basements, cellars, and crawlspaces shall be maintained in
sound and watertight condition adequate to support the building, and protected against the
entry of rodents or other animals,
(e)
Exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or
timbers, and any other conditions which might admit rain or dampness to the interior
portions of the walls or the interior spaces and shall be protected against the entry of
rodents or other animals.
(f)
Exterior windows and doors shall be maintained in sound condition, and
good repair. Windows and doors shall fit tightly within their frames and the frames shall be
constructed and maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction as to prevent
rain from entering the building.
(g)
Exterior windows and doors shall be equipped with hardware for locking
and the locking mechanism shall be maintained in properly functioning condition.
(h)
All points of possible ingress and egress including but not limited to
exterior windows and doors shall be secured to prevent unauthorized entry.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 7
(i)
Any window which is broken cracked or missing glass or glazing shall be
replaced and maintained in good repair or the building opening shall otherwise be
adequately secured pursuant to this section.
(j)
The roof shall be adequately supported, and shall be maintained in a
weather tight condition; the gutters, downspouts, scuppers and appropriate flashing shall be
in good repair and adequate to remove the water from the building or structure.
(k)
Chimneys and flues shall be kept in sound, functional, weather tight
condition and in good repair.
(l)
Every outside stair or step shall be maintained in sound condition and in
good repair; every porch, stoop, deck, veranda, balcony and walk shall be maintained in
sound condition for its purpose.
(m)
All exit areas shall have continuous exterior lighting from dusk to dawn:
normal intensity of lighting shall be not less than two foot-candles per square foot on the
floor surfaces within an eight-foot radius around said exit. This requirement may be met
by the use of battery-powered or solar-powered lighting if such lighting meets the
performance standards set by this paragraph.
Sec. 102-11.

Interior maintenance standards.

The interior of any building shall be maintained by the owner as follows:
(a)
It is prohibited to accumulate or permit the accumulation of junk, trash and
debris, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, junk, vehicles or any other materials in such a manner
that may produce any health, fire, or safety hazard, or provide harborage for rodents or
other animals on the premises; materials stored by the owner or permitted to be stored by
the owner shall be stacked safely, and away from stairs or hallways, and any other places
of ingress and egress.
(b)
Every foundation, roof, floor, wall, stair, ceiling, and any other structural
support shall be safe and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be
placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and in good repair; floors and stairs
shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks that could be potentially hazardous.
(c)
Any plumbing fixtures shall either be winterized as defined in Section
102-4 or heated to resist being frozen.
(d)
Every exit door shall be secured with an internal deadbolt lock, or with a
locking mechanism deemed equivalent or better by the Department of Building and Zoning
and every such exit door shall be capable of being opened from the inside easily and
without the use of a key or special knowledge.
(e)
Interior stairs shall have treads and risers that have uniform dimensions,
are sound, securely fastened, and have no rotting, loose, or deteriorating supports.
(f)
Every owner shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents
and other vermin in or about the premises.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 8

Sec. 102-28-12. Minimum requirements for lot on which the vacant building stands.
In addition to any other applicable code requirements for each vacant property the
owner must keep the lot on which the vacant building stands in compliance with the
following requirements for as long as the property remains vacant:
(a)
The lot the building stands on, and the surrounding public way shall be
maintained as follows: All grass and weeds on the premises including abutting sidewalks,
gutters and alleys shall be kept below 10 inches in height, and all dead or broken trees tree
limbs or shrubbery shall be cut and removed from the premises.
(b)
The interior walkway leading to the main entry door, and any public
sidewalk adjoining the lot shall be shoveled clear of snow.
(c)
Junk, rubbish, waste, and any material that creates a health, safety or fire
hazard including but not limited to any mail or flyers that have been delivered to the
building shall not be permitted to accumulate on any portion of the exterior lot of the
building.
(d)
No portion of the lot nor any structure, vehicle, receptacle or object
thereon shall be maintained or operated in any manner that causes or produces any health
or safety hazard or permits the premises to become a rodent harborage or is conducive to
rodent harborage.
(e)
the ground.

The lot shall be maintained so that water does not accumulate or stand on

(f)

All fences and gates shall be maintained in sound condition and in good

repair.
Sec. 102-13.

Duty of owner where vacant building becomes violated, after the
owner has provided proof that such building is unviolated.

It shall be a violation of this Section for a vacant building to become violated, after
the owner has provided proof to the Department of Building and Zoning that such building
is unviolated. With respect to a vacant building represented by the owner as unviolated, if
the enforcing authority determines, based on an inspection report prepared by the enforcing
authority that such building is violated, said enforcing authority shall send by certified mail
a written notice of violation to the person responsible for day-to-day supervision and
management of the building or to the authorized agent for service of process as identified
on the sign required by Section 102-9, or if there is no such sign, then sent by certified
mail to the owner of record. The fine for violation of this section shall be not less than
$500.00 and not more than $1,000.00.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 9
Sec. 102-14.

Liability insurance.

The owner of any building that has become vacant shall, within 30 days, acquire or
otherwise maintain liability insurance, in an amount of not less than $300,000.00 for
buildings designed primarily for use as residential units and not less than $1,000,000.00 for
any other building, including, but not limited to, buildings designed for manufacturing,
industrial, storage or commercial uses, covering any damage to any person or any property
caused by any physical condition of or in the building and maintain coverage until the
building is no longer vacant. Any insurance policy acquired after the building has become
vacant shall provide for written notice to the Department of Building and Zoning within 30
days of any lapse, cancellation or change in coverage. The owner and the owner’s
authorized agent for service of process shall provide evidence of insurance, upon initial
registration and all subsequent registration renewals, to the Department of Building and
Zoning.
Sec. 102-15.

Fines and penalties.

Any owner who violates any provision of this section or of the rules and
regulations issued hereunder shall be fined not less than $500.00 and not more than
$1,000.00 for each offense. Every day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
Sec. 102-16.

Enforcement.

When a property is deemed in noncompliance with this ordinance the appropriate
enforcing authority may through the State’s Attorney initiate an abatement proceeding
under this section in the Circuit Court or with the Department of Administrative Hearings.
Sec. 102-17.

Proceedings before the Department of Administrative Hearings.

(a)
Proceedings for administrative adjudication of alleged violations of this
ordinance shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2 Article IX of
the Cook County Code of Ordinances, except in the event of a conflict between the
procedures set out in Chapter 2 Article IX and the procedures set out in this section, the
procedures set out in the section shall prevail.
(b)
If an administrative law officer finds, by a preponderance of evidence, that
the property is in noncompliance with this ordinance the administrative law officer shall
assess fines and costs. After expiration of the period within which judicial review of the
hearing officer’s decision may be sought under the Illinois Administrative Review Law,
the order assessing fines and costs decision, unless reversed or modified on judicial review,
may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction. All expenses incurred to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to,
attorney’s fees, court costs, and collection fees, shall be a debt due and owing the County
and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 10
(c)
If an administrative law officer finds, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the property is in noncompliance with this ordinance the administrative law officer
may enter an order of abatement which requires the owner to take all reasonable measures
necessary to abate the noncompliance. If an order of abatement is entered, it shall be
entered at the time of the entry of the order assessing fines and costs for violations which
occurred prior to the entry of the order of abatement. The order assessing fines and costs
shall not be final, until a final order is entered as to the abatement of the violations. Any
owner who fails to comply with an administrative law officer’s abatement order shall be
subject to a fine not less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each
day that the violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
Sec. 102-18.

Proceedings before the Circuit Court.

(a)
The State’s Attorney is authorized to bring an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to abate noncompliance described in this section. If the court finds
that the county has established by a preponderance of the evidence that the property
identified in the notice is noncompliant, the court shall enter an order of abatement which
requires the owner to take all reasonable measures necessary to abate the noncompliance.
The court’s order of abatement may include, but is not limited to: correcting all code
violations; altering, repairing or improving the building or structure; rendering the building
or structure fit for human use or habitation; vacating or enclosing the building or structure;
removing or demolishing the building or structure; or, if requested by the State’s Attorney
and reasonable in the light of the magnitude of the harm caused or which can reasonably be
expected to be caused by noncompliance, the market value of the property in its current
condition, and the extent to which the defendant has failed to take effective measures to
abate the noncompliance, the forfeiture to the county of all the defendant’s rights, title and
interest in the property.
Sec. 102-19.

Vacant buildings – Mortgagee required to act – Enforcement
authority.

(a)
(1)
The mortgagee of any residential building that has become vacant
and which is not registered pursuant to this section or Section 102-5 of this Code shall,
within the later of 30 days after the building becomes vacant and unregistered or 60 days
after a default, file a registration statement with the Department of Building and Zoning on
forms provided by that department for such purposes and pay a registration fee of $500.00.
The registration shall remain valid for six months from the date of registration. The
mortgagee shall be required to renew the registration every six months as long as the
building remains vacant. There shall be no fee for such renewal. The mortgagee shall
notify the Department of Building and Zoning within 20 days of any change in the
registration information by filing an amended registration statement on a form provided by
the Department of Building and Zoning for such purposes. The registration statement shall
be deemed prima facie proof of the statements therein contained in any administrative
enforcement proceeding or court proceeding instituted under this section against the
mortgagee with respect to the registered building. After filing a registration statement
under this section and for the duration of each registration period, if the mortgagee has a
right of entry under the mortgage, the mortgagee shall exercise that right of entry to allow
the appropriate enforcing authority to conduct an interior and exterior inspection of the
building to determine compliance with this ordinance, upon 10 days written notice from
the enforcing authority. The base registration fee set forth above in this section shall be

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 11
doubled if the applicable initial registration takes place not through voluntary and timely
compliance, but as the result of an enforcing authority’s identification of a violation of this
ordinance. Such doubled fee shall not be subject to reduction, during the relevant period,
for having registered or renewed following the issuance of a citation for failure to register
or renew.
(2)

In addition to other information required by the Building and Zoning
Commissioner, the registration statement shall include the name, street
address and telephone number of a natural person, 21 years of age or
older, or business entity registered with the Illinois Secretary of State
designated by the mortgagee as an authorized agent for receiving notices
of code violations and for receiving process in any court proceeding or
administrative enforcement proceeding on behalf of such mortgagee in
connection with enforcement of this section. This person must maintain an
office in Cook County, Illinois, or must actually reside within Cook
County, Illinois. A mortgagee meeting these criteria may designate itself
as agent. By designating an authorized agent under the provisions of this
subsection a mortgagee consents to receive any and all notices of
violations of this section concerning the registered building and all process
in any court proceeding or administrative enforcement proceeding brought
to enforce this section with respect to the registered building by service of
the notice or process on the authorized agent. Any mortgagee who has
designated an authorized agent under the provisions of this subsection
shall be deemed to consent to the continuation of the agent’s designation
for the purposes of this subsection until the mortgagee notifies the
Department of Building and Zoning of a change of authorized agent or
until the mortgagee files a new registration statement. Any mortgagee who
fails to register a vacant building under the provisions of this section shall
further be deemed to consent to receive, by posting at the building, any
and all notices of code violations and all process in the administrative
proceeding brought to enforce code provisions concerning the building.
The enforcing authority shall notify the designated agent of all violations
and enforcement proceedings brought under this section.

(b)
The mortgagee of any residential building that has become vacant and
which is not registered pursuant to Section 102-5, within the later of 30 days after the
building becomes vacant and unregistered or 60 days after a default, shall:
(1)

secure the building’s doors and windows so that all such building openings
are closed and secured, using secure doors, windows without broken or
cracked panes, commercial-quality metal security panels, filled with likekind material as the surrounding wall, or boarded with plywood installed
and secured in accordance with the rules and regulations issues by the
Department of Building and Zoning or the appropriate enforcing authority.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 12
(2)

secure the building so that at least one building entrance shall be
accessible from the exterior and secured with a door that is locked to allow
access only to authorized persons. If two or more exit doors exist, a
minimum of two exit doors shall be available to exit from the interior of
the building, with at least one exit door available per 150 linear feet of
horizontal travel at ground-floor level;

(3)

maintain all grass and weeds on the residential real estate premises, below
10 inches in height and cut and remove all dead or broken trees, tree limbs
or shrubbery;

(4)

clear or remove snow from the walkway leading to the main entry door,
and any public sidewalk adjoining the lot;

(5)

abate the accumulation of debris, trash and litter that does not constitute
personal property on any portion of the exterior lot of the building;

(6)

reasonably maintain fences and gates;

(7)

reasonably maintain the structural integrity of stairs and steps that lead to
the main entrance of the building;

(8)

winterize the building, which shall mean cleaning all toilets and
completely draining all plumbing and heating systems;

(9)

maintain and secure the exterior of the building;

(10)

post a sign affixed to the building indicating: the vacant building
registration number and the name, address and telephone number of the
mortgagee and the mortgagee’s authorized agent for the purpose of service
of process. The name, address and telephone number of a person
responsible for day-to-day supervision and management of the building, if
such person is different from the mortgagee or authorized agent shall be
indicated on the sign as well. The sign shall be no smaller than 8.5 inches
by 11 inches and placed in such a location so as to be legible from the
nearest public street or sidewalk, whichever is nearer;

(11)

maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain the
sign until the building is reoccupied or demolished with all permits
required by the enforcing authority. If during the registration period and
following the initial boarding and securing of the property in compliance
with this section the enforcing authority notifies the mortgagee in writing
that the property was found open or it has been judicially or
administratively found to be open, in each case on two separate occasions
at least 30 days apart then the building shall thereafter be secured with
only commercial-quality metal security panels or a method deemed
equivalent by the enforcing authority; and

(12)

keep the exterior of the property free of vermin and rodents.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 13
(c)
Any mortgagee who violates any provision of this section or of the rules
and regulations issued hereunder shall be fined not less than $500.00 and not more than
$1,000.00 for each offense. Every day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. The following shall be affirmative defenses under Section 102-19 and
Section 102-20.
(1)

That the owner or another mortgagee has registered the building pursuant
to Section 102-5 or Section 102-19 as applicable and such registration is
current;

(2)

That the mortgagee is barred from doing any action required by this
section by an automatic stay pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding,
provided that the mortgagee tenders evidence including the bankruptcy
case number;

(3)

That the mortgagee has cured all violations within 30 days of receiving
written notice of such violations. Notice sent by U.S. mail shall be deemed
received seven days after mailing. An affidavit shall be conclusive proof
of mailing;

(4)

That at the time of the violation, the mortgage was not in default;

(5)

That at the time of the violation, the mortgagee was not the senior lien
holder of record on the real estate;

(6)

That a receiver has been appointed for the property by a court of
competent jurisdiction;

(7)

That in a foreclosure of the property, the owner or mortgagor has taken
any of the following acts within the past 60 days:
(i)

filed any pleading which asserts claims against the mortgagee or
defenses;

(ii)

filed any motion which asserts defenses or claims against the
mortgagee;

(iii)

filed any discovery for response by the mortgagee; or

(iv)

filed a request for mediation.

(d)
The Department of Building and Zoning may issue rules and regulations
for the administration of this section.
(e)
Nothing in this section shall bar the concurrent enforcement of any
provision of this Code against the owner or owners of the property.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 14
(f)
To the extent permitted by law, a mortgagee’s acts or omissions required
by ordinance shall not subject the mortgagee to civil or criminal liability unless the act or
omission constitutes gross negligence or willful, wanton, or intentional misconduct,
pursuant to this ordinance. This provision shall not waive the requirement to obtain permits
or licenses.
(g)
For the purposes of this section and Section 102-20, “vacant” shall mean
any real estate improved with a complete structure containing one or more dwelling units
or an incomplete structure if the real estate is zoned for residential development, where the
structure is empty or otherwise uninhabited by persons and the structure or lot is in need of
maintenance, repair or securing, and with respect to which one or more of the following
conditions exist:
(1)

all lawful business or construction operations have ceased for 6 (six)
months;

(2)

it has been declared unfit for occupancy and ordered to remain vacant and
unoccupied under an order issued by the enforcing authority or by an order
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction;

(3)

no construction or legal repairs have commenced for 6 (six) months;

(4)

the doors or windows are smashed through, broken, unhinged, removed or
continuously unlocked;

(5)

law enforcement officials have received at least one report of trespassers
or vandalism or other illegal acts being committed at the property in the
last 6 (six) months;

(6)

gas, electrical or water services to the entire premises have been
terminated.

A property shall not be considered vacant if: (i) there is an unoccupied building
which is undergoing construction, renovation, or rehabilitation that is proceeding diligently
to completion, and the building is in compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes,
regulations and legislation; (ii) there is a building occupied on a seasonal basis, but
otherwise secure; (iii) there is a secure building on which there are bona fide rental or sale
signs; or (iv) there is a building that is secure, but is the subject of a probate action, action
to quiet title, or other ownership dispute; or (v) there is otherwise a building that is secure
and in substantial compliance with all applicable ordinances.
(h)
If a building is registered under paragraph (a) of this section, only the
registered mortgagee shall be liable under this section during the registration period.
Nothing in this section shall bar the concurrent enforcement of any provision of this
ordinance against the owner or owners of a property.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 15
(i)
To the extent permitted by law, a mortgagee’s acts or omissions required
by this section shall not subject the mortgagee to civil or criminal liability unless the act or
omission constitutes gross negligence or willful, wanton, or intentional misconduct
pursuant to this ordinance. This provision shall not waive the requirement to obtain permits
or licenses for performing certain work required under this section, or otherwise required
by this ordinance, or the penalties provided for failure to do so.
Sec. 102-20.

Mortgagee to inspect real estate.

(a)
For purposes of this section the terms “default,” “mortgage,” “mortgagee,”
“mortgagor,” shall be defined as provided in Section 102-4.
(b)
For the purposes of this section the term “vacant” shall be defined as
provided in Section 102-19(g).
(c)
Beginning 45 days after a default, a mortgagee shall determine, on a
monthly basis, if the building on the real estate subject to its mortgage is vacant. Such
determination may be made by communication with the mortgagor, a visual inspection of
the real estate, or other means reasonably calculated to determine if the building is vacant.
(d)
This section shall not require a mortgagee to perform any action which it
is barred from doing by an automatic stay pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding.
(e)
To the extent permitted by law, a mortgagee’s acts or omissions required
by this section shall not subject the mortgagee to civil or criminal liability unless the act or
omission constitutes gross negligence or willful, wanton, or intentional misconduct.
(f)
Any person who violates any provision of this section or of the rules and
regulations issued hereunder shall be fined not less than $500.00 and not more than
$1,000.00 for each offense. Every day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. The affirmative defenses provided in Section 102-19(c) shall also
apply to this section.
Sec. 102-21.

Termination.

(a)
For purposes of this section the terms “mortgage,” and “mortgagee,” shall
be defined as provided in Section 102-4.
(b)
For the purposes of this section the term “vacant” shall be defined as
provided in Section 102-19(g).
(c)
Upon the occurrence of any of the following, the requirements of Sections
102-19 and 102-20 shall terminate with respect to a mortgagee:
(1)

The filing with the Recorder of Deeds of a satisfaction or release of the
mortgagee’s mortgage;

(d)
Upon the occurrence of any of the following, the requirements of Sections
102-19 and 102-20 shall terminate with respect to a building:
(1)

The filing with the Recorder of Deeds of a conveyance of title to the

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 16
underlying real estate, pursuant to foreclosure proceedings or otherwise;
(2)

The building ceases to be vacant; or

(3)

The building is demolished with all permits required by Cook County
Building and Zoning and, where the property is located within a
participating municipality, with all permits required by that municipality.

(e)
Within 20 days of termination pursuant to this section, a mortgagee shall
notify the Department of Building and Zoning on a form provided by the Department of
Building and Zoning for such purpose.
Sec. 102-22.

Improperly maintained buildings and structures subject to nuisance
abatement proceedings.

(a)
The following buildings and structures are hereby declared to be public
nuisances subject to abatement proceedings under this section:
(1)

A building or structure found to be vacant and open after the effective date
of an order to secure and enclose issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or the department of administrative hearings within the
previous 12 months, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction;

(2)

A building or structure that contains any violation of a health, fire,
electrical, plumbing, building or zoning provision of this code which is
imminently dangerous and hazardous;

(3)

A building or structure for which the costs of the repairs necessary to bring
the building or structure into compliance with applicable laws would
exceed the market value of the building or structure after the repairs would
have been made, or when the owner cannot show that it has readily
available and sufficient assets to make such repairs or where such repairs
otherwise are economically infeasible; or

(4)

A building or structure where an owner or mortgagee has failed to correct
the code violation(s) that form the basis of an adverse order or judgment
involving that building or structure, issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or a hearing officer of the department of administrative
hearings, within 60 days of entry, unless such adverse order or judgment
has been stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction. For purposes of this
section “vacant” shall be defined as provided in Section 102-19(g) for a
mortgagee, for the purposes of this section “vacant” shall be defined as
provided in Section 102-5 for owners; and “open” refers to a building that
has any door, window or wall missing or unsecured, or has any other
opening so as to allow entry by a human being.

(b)

The Office of the State’s Attorney is authorized to bring an action in a

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 17
court of competent jurisdiction to abate a public nuisance described in this section. If the
court finds that the County or participating municipality has established by a
preponderance of the evidence that the building or structure identified in the notice is a
public nuisance as described in this section, the court shall enter an order of abatement
which requires the owner or owners of record, including beneficial owners of any Illinois
land trust, within the time frame specified in the order, to take all reasonable measures
necessary to abate the public nuisance. The court’s order of abatement may include, but is
not limited to: correcting all code violations; altering, repairing or improving the building
or structure, rendering the building or structure unfit for human use or habitation; vacating
or enclosing the building or structure; removing or demolishing the building or structure. If
requested by the State’s Attorney and reasonable in light of the magnitude of the harm
caused or which can reasonably be expected to be caused by the nuisance, the market value
of the property in its current condition, and the extent to which the defendant has failed to
take effective measures to abate the nuisance, the Court may enter an order which provides
for:
(1)

Forfeiture to the County or participating municipality of all of the
defendant’s rights, title and interest in the real estate, or

(2)

Authorization to the first or senior mortgagee, as a receiver, to take
possession of the property and bring the property into compliance with the
Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance.

(c)
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the issuance of an order of
forfeiture of all of the defendant’s rights, title and interest in the real estate or the issuance
of an order authorizing the first or senior mortgagee to take possession of the property and
to bring the property into compliance with the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance
shall be appropriate for any property that is determined to be a nuisance under
subparagraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(4) of this section. Whenever such an order of forfeiture
authorization is issued under this section with respect to a vacant building or a building
containing four or fewer residential units, the holder of the first or senior mortgage or lien
on the property, disregarding any more senior mortgages or liens held by a unit of
government, shall, beginning 60 days after the date the order is issued, be liable for any
code violations on the property on and after that date, unless the holder has waived its
rights under the mortgage or lien; provided that the 60 day period after which liability
attaches may be extended by an administrative law officer or court upon a showing that the
mortgage or lien holder has exercised reasonable diligence in abating the nuisance and that
additional time is needed to complete the abatement. The holder of such a mortgage or lien
shall have the right to take possession of the property in order to effect necessary repairs
beginning on the date that an order of forfeiture issues. In any case in which an order of
forfeiture is sought for property involving a vacant building or a building containing four
or fewer residential units, the holder of any first or senior mortgage or lien, disregarding
any more senior mortgage or lien held by a unit of government, shall be given notice and
an opportunity to intervene as a party.

(d)

For any building or structure that is a public nuisance subject to abatement

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 18
proceedings under this section, the owner, the owner’s agent for purposes of managing or
controlling or collecting rents on the building or structure, the holder of a mortgage or lien
with a right to possession of the building or structure under subsection (d) of this section,
and any other person or mortgagee managing or controlling the building or structure shall
be fined not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each day the nuisance has
existed until the nuisance is abated. The amount of any fine imposed under this section or
under the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance in any proceeding involving a building
or structure that is a public nuisance under this section, the cost of the repairs, alterations,
improvements, or vacating and enclosing, or removal and demolition by the enforcing
authority, and the costs of bringing the abatement proceeding under this section into
compliance, including inspector’s and attorney’s fees, shall be recoverable from the owner
or owners and shall be a lien on the property upon which the building or structure is or was
located and shall also be enforceable against any person or mortgagee against whom the
order issues as provided by law. Any lien created under this section may, upon a showing
of good cause, be waived by the Office of the State’s Attorney. The lien for the costs of
repairs, alterations, improvements, demolition, receivership, vacating or enclosing shall be
a first lien upon the real estate and the rents and issues thereof, and shall be superior to all
prior assignments of rents and all prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes, and
shall be enforced pursuant to applicable law. No license shall be issued relating to the
property subject to such lien until the lien is satisfied or, upon a showing of good cause, the
lien is waived by the Office of the State’s Attorney. Nothing in this section shall prevent
the County or participating municipality from seeking other remedies for code violations
through the use of any other administrative procedure or court proceeding, including the
imposition of fines set forth for violations of the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance.
(e)
Any property forfeited to the County under this section may be disposed of
as authorized by the County Board.
(f)
All fees and fines laid out in this section are in addition to any fees and
fines in the Cook County Building and Zoning Ordinance.
Sec. 102-23.

Demolition of open, hazardous residential and commercial buildings.

(a)
If a residential building has been determined by the appropriate enforcing
authority pursuant to Section 102-22 (b) to be open and vacant and an immediate and
continuing hazard to the community in which the building is located, then the
Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning shall be authorized to post a
notice of not less than two feet by two feet in size on the front of the building. The notice
shall be dated as of the date of the posting and shall state that unless the building is
demolished, repaired, or enclosed, and unless any garbage, debris, and other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are removed so that an immediate and
continuing hazard to the community no longer exists, then the building may be
demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials may be removed, by the enforcing authority. Not later
than 30 days following the posting of the notice, the Department of Building and Zoning
shall do the following:

(1)

Cause to be sent, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to all

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 19
owners of record of the property, the beneficial owners of any Illinois land
trust having title to the property, and all lien holders of record in the
property, stating the intent of the Department of Building and Zoning to
demolish, repair, or enclose the building, or remove any garbage, debris,
or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials if that
action is not taken by the owner or owners or lien holders of record.
(2)

(3)

Cause to be published, in a newspaper published in the municipality, a
notice setting forth:
(i)

the address of the building or description of the real estate
sufficient for its identification,

(ii)

a statement that the property is open and vacant and constitutes an
immediate and continuing hazard to the community, and

(iii)

a statement that the Department of Building and Zoning intends to
demolish, repair, or enclose the building, or remove any garbage,
debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials if the owner or owners or lien holders of record fail to do
so. This notice shall be published for three consecutive days.

Cause to be filed in the office of the recorder of deeds and registrar of
titles, a notice setting forth (i) the address of the building or a description
of the real estate sufficient for its identification; and (ii) a statement that
the Department of Building and Zoning has initiated an action under
Section 102-23 to cause the demolition, repair or enclosure of the building
or the removal of garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials located on the property if the owner or
owners or lien holders of record fail to do so. If the building is not
demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or the garbage, debris, or other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are not removed,
within 30 days of mailing the notice described in subsection (a)(1) of this
section or within 30 days of the last day of publication of the notice,
whichever is later, the Department of Building and Zoning shall cause to
be sent, by mail, a final determination to the owners of record, the
beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the property, and
all lien holders of record in the property, which provides notice that the
Department of Building and Zoning has determined that the necessary
demolition, repair, enclosure or removal action has not been taken and that
the building remains open and vacant and an immediate and continuing
hazard to the community in which the building is located. The final
determination shall include a statement that, unless a hearing is sought
under this chapter before a court of competent jurisdiction to object to the
proposed actions of the Department of Building and Zoning and a copy of
the complaint served on the Cook County Board President within ten days
of the mailing of the final determination, the Department of Building and
Zoning intends to exercise its power to demolish, repair, or enclose the
buildings, or to remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious,
or unhealthy substances or materials.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 20

The Department of Building and Zoning may proceed to demolish, repair, or
enclose a building or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy
substances or materials under this subsection within a 120 day period following the date of
the mailing of the notice described in subsection (a)(1) of this section if the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and Zoning determines that the demolition, repair,
enclosure, or removal of any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials is necessary to remedy the immediate and continuing hazard. “If,
however, before the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning proceeds
with any of the actions authorized by this chapter, any person or mortgagee who has
sought a hearing under this chapter before a court and has served a copy of the complaint
on the Cook County Board President, then the County shall not proceed with the
demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal of garbage, debris, or other substances until the
court determines that action is necessary to remedy the hazard and issues an order
authorizing the enforcing authority to do so.
Following the demolition, repair, or enclosure of a building, or removal of
garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials under
this subsection, the County may file a notice of lien against the real estate for the cost of
the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal within 180 days after the repair, demolition,
enclosure, or removal occurred, for the cost and expense incurred, in the office of the
recorder of deeds and registrar of titles. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn
statement setting forth (i) a description of the real estate, such as the address or other
description of the property, sufficient for its identification; (ii) the expenses incurred by the
enforcing authority in undertaking the remedial actions authorized by this chapter; (iii) the
date or dates that the expenses were incurred by the Commissioner of the Department of
Building and Zoning or his designee; (iv) a statement by the Commissioner of the
Department of Building and Zoning that the building was open and vacant and constituted
an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; (v) a statement by the
Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning that the required sign was posted
on the building, that notice was sent by certified mail to the owners of record, and that
notice was published in accordance with this subsection; and (vi) a statement as to when
and where the notice was published. The lien authorized by this chapter may thereafter be
released or enforced by the County as provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1(c), previously
codified as Illinois Revised Statutes, Ch. 24, Par. 11-31-1(c).
Sec. 102-24.

Notice requirement of Section 5.4-3c.(2).

The notice requirement set out in Section 5.4-3c.(2) of the Cook County Building
Ordinance shall not apply to the provisions in the Cook County Vacant Building
Ordinance.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect thirty (30) days after adoption.
*Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on November 15, 2011.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to accept the Substitute
Ordinance.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 21
(SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE FOR COMMUNICATION NO. 315462)
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE BRIDGET GAINER, COUNTY COMMISISONER
Co- sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT, WILLIAM BEAVERS,
JERRY BUTLER, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
JESUS G. GARCIA, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
JOAN PARTRICIA MURPHY, EDWIN REYES, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN and
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
VACANT BUILDING ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 102 Buildings and
Building Regulations, Sec. 102-2. through Sec. 102-24., of the Cook County Code are hereby enacted as
follows:
Sec. 102- 2. Short title.
This section shall be known and may be cited as "The Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance.”
Sec. 102-3. Applicability.
This ordinance applies to:
(1) buildings within Cook County, located outside of the limits of a
municipality, and
(2) buildings within Cook County located within the boundaries of a
participating municipality.
Sec. 102-4. Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where
otherwise specifically indicated.
Appropriate enforcing authority means the:
(1)

Department of Building and Zoning, where the building is located in an unincorporated
area of Cook County; and

(2)

persons authorized by a participating municipality to enforce the Cook County Vacant
Building Ordinance located within the boundaries of that participating municipality.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 22

Default means, with respect to a residential building containing four or fewer dwelling units,
when the mortgagor is 60 days past due on the mortgagor’s obligation to make a scheduled payment
under a mortgage or a mortgage note. With respect to all other residential buildings, “default” shall mean
when the mortgagor is 90 days past due on the mortgagor’s obligation to make a scheduled payment
under a mortgage or a mortgage note.
Enforcing authority means the Department of Building and Zoning, with respect to vacant
buildings located in unincorporated areas in Cook County and, with respect to buildings located within a
participating municipality, persons authorized by a participating municipality to enforce the Cook County
Vacant Building Ordinance, within the boundaries of that participating municipality.
Mortgage means any consensual lien created by a written instrument which grants or retains an
interest in real estate to secure a debt or other obligation. The term includes, without limitation:
(1) mortgages securing reverse mortgage loans;
(2) mortgages securing revolving credit loans;
(3) every deed conveying real estate, although an absolute conveyance in its terms, which
shall have been intended only as a security in the nature of a mortgage; and
(4) equitable mortgages.
Mortgagee means:
(1) the holder of an indebtedness or obligee of a non-monetary obligation secured by a
mortgage or any person designated or authorized to act on behalf of such holder;
(2) any person claiming through a mortgagee as successor; and
(3) any person identified as such in a recorded document which has not been released,
assigned, or superseded of record.
Mortgagor means the person whose interest in the real estate is the subject of the mortgage and
any person claiming through a mortgagor as successor. Where a mortgage is executed by a trustee of a
land trust, the mortgagor is the trustee and not the beneficiary or beneficiaries.
Municipality means an enforcing authority, village, or incorporated town in Cook County.
Owner means any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
(1)

Has legal title to the property, with or without accompanying actual
possession thereof: or

(2)

Has charge, care or control of the property as owner or agent of the owner or an
executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner: or

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 23

(3)

Is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing, controlling the property or collecting
rents, or is any other person managing or controlling the property or is any person entitled to
the control or direction of the management or disposition of the property.

Participating municipality means a municipality which has entered into an intergovernmental
agreement with Cook County to enforce the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance within the
boundaries of that municipality.
Property means any real, residential, commercial or industrial property, or portion thereof,
located within unincorporated Cook County or within the boundaries of a participating municipality,
including buildings or structures situated on the property.
Residential property means buildings of three stories or less in height where the whole building
or parts thereof are designed or used as residential units or auxiliary uses to a residential unit.
Vacant means a building which is lacking habitual presence of human beings who have a legal
right to be on the premises, or at which substantially all lawful business or construction
operations or residential occupancy has ceased, or which is substantially devoid of content. In
determining whether a building is vacant, it is relevant to consider, among other factors, the
percentage of overall square footage of the building or floor to the occupied space, the condition
and value of any items in the building and the presence of rental or for sale signs on the property;
provided that a residential property shall not be deemed vacant if, a person or entity with an
interest in the property proves, by a preponderance of evidence that, it has been used as a
residence by a person entitled to possession for a period of at least three months within the
previous nine months and a person entitled to possession intends to resume residing at the
property; and further provided that multi-family residential property containing ten or more
dwelling units shall be considered vacant when ninety percent or more of the dwelling units are
unoccupied. A property shall not be considered vacant if there is a building that is secure, but is
the subject of a probate action, action to quiet title, or other ownership dispute.
Winterize means cleaning all toilets and completely draining all plumbing and heating systems
Sec. 102-5. Obligation to register.
(a) The owner of any building that has become vacant shall within 30 days, after the building
becomes vacant or within 30 days after assuming ownership of the building, whichever is
later, file a registration statement, including proof of liability insurance in the amount
prescribed in Section 102-14, for each such building with the appropriate enforcing authority
on forms provided by that department for such purposes and pay a registration fee in the
amount prescribed in Section 102-6, for each registered building; provided, however, that all
eleemosynary, religious, educational, benevolent or charitable associations organized on a
not-for-profit basis and all governmental agencies shall be exempt from the payment of the
registration fee. The registration shall remain valid for one year from the date of registration.
The owner shall be required to renew the registration every year as long as the building
remains vacant. There shall be no fee for such renewal. The owner shall notify the
Department of Building and Zoning, within 20 days, of any change in the registration
information by filing an amended registration statement on a form provided by the
Department of Building and Zoning for such purposes. The registration statement shall be
deemed prima facie proof of the statements therein contained in any administrative

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 24
enforcement proceeding or court proceeding instituted by the County against the owner or
owners of the building. Registration of a building in accordance with this section shall be
deemed to satisfy the registration requirement set forth in Article V—Administration and
Enforcement, Section 5.3-4 of the Cook County Building Code.
(b) The Department of Building and Zoning, with support from the Bureau of Technology, shall
establish a website to publicize the registration information provided under this section in an
online registry.
Sec. 102-6. Owner Registration fee.
The registration fee for each registered building shall be $250 (the “base registration fee”). All
fees and fines laid out in this section are in addition to any fees and fines in other sections of the Cook
County Building and Zoning Ordinance. The base registration fee set forth above in this section shall be
doubled if the applicable initial registration takes place not through voluntary and timely compliance, but
as the result of an enforcing authority’s identification of a violation of this ordinance. Such doubled fee
shall not be subject to reduction, during the relevant period, for having registered or renewed following
the issuance of a citation for failure to register or renew.
The Department of Building and Zoning, with support from the Bureau of Technology, shall
establish a website to publicize the registration information provided under this section in an online
registry.

Sec. 102-7. Obligation to permit access for purposes of inspection.
After filing a registration statement the building owner shall provide for access to the appropriate
enforcing authority to conduct an exterior and interior inspection of the building to determine compliance
with this ordinance, following reasonable notice, during the period covered by the initial registration or
any subsequent renewal.
Sec. 102-8. Owner Obligation to appoint agent.
In addition to other information required by the Commissioner of Building and Zoning, the
registration statement shall include the name, street address and telephone number of a natural person 21
years of age or older, designated by the owner or owners as the authorized agent for receiving notices of
code violations and for receiving process, in any court proceeding or administrative enforcement
proceeding, on behalf of such owner or owners in connection with the enforcement of this Code. This
person must maintain an office in Cook County, Illinois, or must actually reside within Cook County,
Illinois. An owner who is a natural person and who meets the requirements of this subsection as to
location of residence or office may designate himself as agent. By designating an authorized agent under
the provisions of this subsection the owner is consenting to receive any and all notices of code violations
concerning the registered building and all process in any court proceeding or administrative enforcement
proceeding brought to enforce code provisions concerning the registered building by service of the notice
or process on the authorized agent. Any owner who has designated an authorized agent under the
provisions of this subsection shall be deemed to consent to the continuation of the agent’s designation for
the purposes of this subsection until the owner notifies the Department of Building and Zoning of a
change of authorized agent or until the owner files a new registration statement. Any owner who fails to
register a vacant building under the provisions of this subsection shall further be deemed to consent to

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 25
receive, by posting at the building, any and all notices of code violations and all process in an
administrative proceeding brought to enforce code provisions concerning the building.

Sec. 102-9. Owner Obligation to post a sign.
The owner of any building that has become vacant shall, within 30 days:
(a) Post a sign affixed to the building indicating: the vacant building registration number and the
name, address and telephone number of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent for the purpose of
service of process. The name, address and telephone number of a person responsible for day-to-day
supervision and management of the building, if such person is different from the owner the authorized
agent shall be indicated on the sign as well. The sign shall legible, be no smaller than 8.5 inches by 11
inches and placed in such a location so as to be visible from the nearest public street or sidewalk,
whichever is nearer; and
(b) Maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain the sign,
until the building is again occupied or demolished.
Sec. 102-10. Owner Obligation to secure building.
The owner of any building that has become vacant, and any person maintaining, operating or
collecting rent for any building that has become vacant shall, within 30 days, do the following to enclose
and secure the building:
(a) Secure building so that all building openings shall be closed and secured, using secure doors,
windows without broken or cracked panes, commercial-quality steel security panels, filled with
like-kind material as the surrounding wall, or boarded with plywood installed and secured in
accordance with the rules and regulations issues by the Department of Building and Zoning or
appropriate enforcing authority, as applicable to prevent entry by unauthorized persons.
(b) Secure the building so that at least one building entrance shall be accessible from the exterior
and secured with a door that is locked to allow access only to authorized persons. If two or more
exit doors exist, a minimum of two exit doors shall be available to exit from the interior of the
building, with at least one exit door available per 150 linear feet of horizontal travel at groundfloor level;
(c) Maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain the sign until the
building is reoccupied or demolished, repaired or completed with all permits required by the
enforcing authority. If during the registration period and following the initial boarding and
securing of the property in compliance with this section, the enforcing authority notifies the
owner in writing that the property was found open or it has been judicially or administratively
found to be open, in each case on two separate occasions at least 30 days apart, then the building
shall thereafter be secured with only commercial-quality steel security panels or a method
deemed equivalent by the enforcing authority.
(d) Foundations, basements, cellars, and crawlspaces shall be maintained in sound and
watertight condition adequate to support the building, and protected against the entry of rodents or other
animals;

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 26
(e) Exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or timbers, and any other
conditions which might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or the interior spaces
and shall be protected against the entry of rodents or other animals;
(f) Exterior windows and doors shall be maintained in sound condition, and good repair.
Windows and doors shall fit tightly within their frames and the frames shall be constructed and
maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction as to prevent rain from entering the building;
(g) Exterior windows and doors shall be equipped with hardware for locking and the locking
mechanism shall be maintained in properly functioning condition;
(h) All points of possible ingress and egress including but not limited to exterior windows and
doors shall be secured to prevent unauthorized entry;
(i) Any window which is broken cracked or missing glass or glazing shall be replaced and
maintained in good repair or the building opening shall otherwise be adequately secured pursuant to this
section;
(j) The roof shall be adequately supported, and shall be maintained in a weather tight condition;
the gutters, downspouts, scuppers and appropriate flashing shall be in good repair and adequate to remove
the water from the building or structure;
(k) Chimneys and flues shall be kept in sound, functional, weather tight condition and in good
repair;
(l) Every outside stair or step shall be maintained in sound condition and in good repair; every
porch, stoop, deck, veranda, balcony and walk shall be maintained in sound condition for its purpose;
(m) All exit areas shall have continuous exterior lighting from dusk to dawn: normal intensity of
lighting shall be not less than two foot-candles per square foot on the floor surfaces within an eight-foot
radius around said exit. This requirement may be met by the use of battery-powered or solar-powered
lighting if such lighting meets the performance standards set by this paragraph.
Sec. 102-11. Interior maintenance standards.
The interior of any building shall be maintained by the owner as follows:
(a) It is prohibited to accumulate or permit the accumulation of junk, trash and debris, boxes,
lumber, scrap metal, junk, vehicles or any other materials in such a manner that may produce any health,
fire, or safety hazard, or provide harborage for rodents or other animals on the premises; materials stored
by the owner or permitted to be stored by the owner shall be stacked safely, and away from stairs or
hallways, and any other places of ingress and egress;
(b) Every foundation, roof, floor, wall, stair, ceiling, and any other structural support shall be
safe and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept
in sound condition and in good repair; floors and stairs shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks that
could be potentially hazardous;
(c) Any plumbing fixtures shall either be winterized as defined in Section 102-4 or heated to
resist being frozen;

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 27

(d) Every exit door shall be secured with an internal deadbolt lock, or with a locking mechanism
deemed equivalent or better by the appropriate enforcing authority and every such exit door shall be
capable of being opened from the inside easily and without the use of a key or special knowledge;
(e) Interior stairs shall have treads and risers that have uniform dimensions, are sound, securely
fastened, and have no rotting, loose, or deteriorating supports;
(f) Every owner shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents and other vermin in
or about the premises.
Sec. 102-28-12. Minimum requirements for lot on which the vacant building stands.
In addition to any other applicable code requirements for each vacant property the owner must
keep the lot on which the vacant building stands in compliance with the following requirements for as
long as the property remains vacant:
(a) The lot the building stands on, and the surrounding public way shall be maintained as
follows: All grass and weeds on the premises including abutting sidewalks, gutters and alleys shall be
kept below 10 inches in height, and all dead or broken trees tree limbs or shrubbery shall be cut and
removed from the premises;
(b) The interior walkway leading to the main entry door, and any public sidewalk adjoining the
lot shall be shoveled clear of snow;
(c) Junk, rubbish, waste, and any material that creates a health, safety or fire hazard including but
not limited to any mail or flyers that have been delivered to the building shall not be permitted to
accumulate on any portion of the exterior lot of the building;
(d) No portion of the lot nor any structure, vehicle, receptacle or object thereon shall be
maintained or operated in any manner that causes or produces any health or safety hazard or permits the
premises to become a rodent harborage or is conducive to rodent harborage;
(e) The lot shall be maintained so that water does not accumulate or stand on the ground;
(f) All fences and gates shall be maintained in sound condition and in good repair.
Sec. 102-13. Duty of owner where vacant building becomes violated, after the owner has provided
proof that such building is unviolated.
For the purposes of this section, “unviolated” means a building: (i) that has a permanent door or
window, as applicable, in each appropriate building opening, (ii) that has each such door or window
secured to prevent unauthorized entry and (iii) that has all its door and window components, including
without limitation frames, jambs, rails, stiles, muntins, mullions, panels, sashes, lights and panes, intact
and unbroken. A building that does not meet the definition of “unviolated” shall be deemed “violated”.
It shall be a violation of this Section for a vacant building to become violated, after the owner has
provided proof to the appropriate enforcing authority that such building is unviolated. With respect to a
vacant building represented by the owner as unviolated, if the enforcing authority determines, based on
an inspection report prepared by the enforcing authority that such building is violated, said enforcing

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 28
authority shall send by certified mail a written notice of violation to the person responsible for day-to-day
supervision and management of the building or to the authorized agent for service of process as identified
on the sign required by Section 102-9, or if there is no such sign, then sent by certified mail to the owner
of record. The fine for violation of this section shall be not less than $500.00 and not more than
$1,000.00. Every day the violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Sec. 102-14. Liability insurance.
The owner of any building that has become vacant shall, within 30 days, acquire or otherwise
maintain liability insurance, or a homeowner’s insurance policy provided that such policy continues to
cover third party liability, even if the insured building becomes vacant, in an amount of not less than
$300,000.00 for buildings designed primarily for use as residential units and not less than $1,000,000.00
for any other building, including, but not limited to, buildings designed for manufacturing, industrial,
storage or commercial uses, covering any damage to any person or any property caused by any physical
condition of or in the building and maintain coverage until the building is no longer vacant. Any
insurance policy acquired after the building has become vacant shall provide for written notice to the
Department of Building and Zoning within 30 days of any lapse, cancellation or change in coverage. The
owner and the owner’s authorized agent for service of process shall provide evidence of insurance, upon
initial registration and all subsequent registration renewals, to the Department of Building and Zoning.
Sec. 102-15. Fines and penalties.
Any owner who violates any provision of this ordinance or of the rules and regulations issued
hereunder shall be fined not less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Every day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Sec. 102-16. Enforcement.
When a property is deemed in noncompliance with this ordinance the appropriate enforcing
authority may through the State’s Attorney initiate an abatement proceeding under this section in the
Circuit Court or with the Department of Administrative Hearings.
Sec. 102-17. Proceedings before the Department of Administrative Hearings.
(a) Proceedings for administrative adjudication of alleged violations of this ordinance shall be
conducted pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2 Article IX of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances, except in the event of a conflict between the procedures set out in Chapter 2 Article IX and
the procedures set out in this section, the procedures set out in the section shall prevail.
(b) If an administrative law officer finds, by a preponderance of evidence, that the property is in
noncompliance with this ordinance the administrative law officer shall assess fines and costs. After
expiration of the period within which judicial review of the hearing officer’s decision may be sought
under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, the order assessing fines and costs decision, unless
reversed or modified on judicial review, may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a
court of competent jurisdiction. All expenses incurred to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited
to, attorney’s fees, court costs, and collection fees, shall be a debt due and owing the County and may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 29

(c) If an administrative law officer finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the property is
in noncompliance with this ordinance the administrative law officer may enter an order of abatement
which requires the owner to take all reasonable measures necessary to abate the noncompliance. If an
order of abatement is entered, it shall be entered at the time of the entry of the order assessing fines and
costs for violations which occurred prior to the entry of the order of abatement. The order assessing fines
and costs shall not be final, until a final order is entered as to the abatement of the violations. Any owner
who fails to comply with an administrative law officer’s abatement order shall be subject to a fine not less
than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that the violation occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense.
Sec. 102-18. Proceedings before the Circuit Court.
(a) The State’s Attorney is authorized to bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
abate noncompliance described in this section. If the court finds that the county has established by a
preponderance of the evidence that the property identified in the notice is noncompliant, the court shall
enter an order of abatement which requires the owner to take all reasonable measures necessary to abate
the noncompliance. The court’s order of abatement may include, but is not limited to: correcting all code
violations; altering, repairing or improving the building or structure; rendering the building or structure fit
for human use or habitation; vacating or enclosing the building or structure; removing or demolishing the
building or structure; or, if requested by the State’s Attorney and reasonable in the light of the magnitude
of the harm caused or which can reasonably be expected to be caused by noncompliance, the market value
of the property in its current condition, and the extent to which the defendant has failed to take effective
measures to abate the noncompliance, the forfeiture to the county of all the defendant’s rights, title and
interest in the property.
Sec. 102-19. Vacant buildings – Mortgagee required to act – Enforcement authority.

(a)

(1) The mortgagee of any residential building that has become vacant and which is not
registered pursuant to this section or Section 102-5 of this Code shall, within the later of
30 days after the building becomes vacant and unregistered or 60 days after a default, file
a registration statement with the Department of Building and Zoning on forms provided
by that department for such purposes and pay a registration fee of $250. The mortgagee
shall be required to renew the registration every year as long as the building remains
vacant. There shall be no fee for such renewal. The mortgagee shall notify the
Department of Building and Zoning within 20 days of any change in the registration
information by filing an amended registration statement on a form provided by the
Department of Building and Zoning for such purposes. The registration statement shall
be deemed prima facie proof of the statements therein contained in any administrative
enforcement proceeding or court proceeding instituted under this section against the
mortgagee with respect to the registered building. The base registration fee set forth
above in this section shall be doubled if the applicable initial registration takes place not
through voluntary and timely compliance, but as the result of an enforcing authority’s
identification of a violation of this ordinance. Such doubled fee shall not be subject to
reduction, during the relevant period, for having registered or renewed following the
issuance of a citation for failure to register or renew.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 30

(2)

In addition to other information required by the Building and Zoning Commissioner, the
registration statement shall include the name, street address and telephone number of a
natural person, 21 years of age or older, or business entity registered with the Illinois
Secretary of State designated by the mortgagee as an authorized agent for receiving
notices of code violations and for receiving process in any court proceeding or
administrative enforcement proceeding on behalf of such mortgagee in connection with
enforcement of this section. This person must maintain an office in Cook County, Illinois,
or must actually reside within Cook County, Illinois. A mortgagee meeting these criteria
may designate itself as agent. By designating an authorized agent under the provisions of
this subsection a mortgagee consents to receive any and all notices of violations of this
section concerning the registered building and all process in any court proceeding or
administrative enforcement proceeding brought to enforce this section with respect to the
registered building by service of the notice or process on the authorized agent. Any
mortgagee who has designated an authorized agent under the provisions of this
subsection shall be deemed to consent to the continuation of the agent’s designation for
the purposes of this subsection until the mortgagee notifies the Department of Building
and Zoning of a change of authorized agent or until the mortgagee files a new registration
statement. Any mortgagee who fails to register a vacant building under the provisions of
this section shall further be deemed to consent to receive, by posting at the building, any
and all notices of code violations and all process in the administrative proceeding brought
to enforce code provisions concerning the building. The enforcing authority shall notify
the designated agent of all violations and enforcement proceedings brought under this
section.

(b) The mortgagee of any residential building that has become vacant and which is not
registered pursuant to Section 102-5, within the later of 30 days after the building becomes vacant and
unregistered or 60 days after a default, shall:
(1)

secure the building’s doors and windows so that all such building openings are closed and
secured, using secure doors, windows without broken or cracked panes, commercialquality metal security panels, filled with like-kind material as the surrounding wall, or
boarded with plywood installed and secured in accordance with the rules and regulations
issues by the Department of Building and Zoning or the appropriate enforcing authority;

(2)

secure the building so that at least one building entrance shall be accessible from the
exterior and secured with a door that is locked to allow access only to authorized persons.
If two or more exit doors exist, a minimum of two exit doors shall be available to exit
from the interior of the building, with at least one exit door available per 150 linear feet
of horizontal travel at ground-floor level;

(3)

maintain all grass and weeds on the residential real estate premises, below 10 inches in
height and cut and remove all dead or broken trees, tree limbs or shrubbery;

(4)

clear or remove snow from the walkway leading to the main entry door, and any public
sidewalk adjoining the lot;

(5)

abate the accumulation of debris, trash and litter that does not constitute personal
property on any portion of the exterior lot of the building;

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 31
(6)

reasonably maintain fences and gates;

(7)

reasonably maintain the structural integrity of stairs and steps that lead to the main
entrance of the building;

(8)

winterize the building, which shall mean cleaning all toilets and completely draining all
plumbing and heating systems;

(9)

maintain and secure the exterior of the building;

(10)

post a sign affixed to the building indicating: the vacant building registration number and
the name, address and telephone number of the mortgagee and the mortgagee’s
authorized agent for the purpose of service of process. The name, address and telephone
number of a person responsible for day-to-day supervision and management of the
building, if such person is different from the mortgagee or authorized agent shall be
indicated on the sign as well. The sign shall legible, be no smaller than 8.5 inches by 11
inches and placed in such a location so as to be visible from the nearest public street or
sidewalk, whichever is nearer; and

(11)

maintain the building in a secure and closed condition and maintain the sign until the
building is reoccupied or demolished with all permits required by the enforcing authority.
If during the registration period and following the initial boarding and securing of the
property in compliance with this section the enforcing authority notifies the mortgagee in
writing that the property was found open or it has been judicially or administratively
found to be open, in each case on two separate occasions at least 30 days apart then the
building shall thereafter be secured with only commercial-quality metal security panels or
a method deemed equivalent by the enforcing authority; and

(12)

keep the exterior of the property free of vermin and rodents.

(c) Any person who violates any provision of this section or of the rules and regulations issued
hereunder shall be fined not less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Every day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. The following shall be
affirmative defenses under Section 102-19 and Section 102-20:
(1)

That the owner or another mortgagee has registered the building pursuant to Section 1025 or Section 102-19 as applicable and such registration is current;

(2)

That the mortgagee is barred from doing any action required by this section by an
automatic stay pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding, provided that the mortgagee tenders
evidence including the bankruptcy case number;

(3)

That the mortgagee has cured all violations within 30 days of receiving written notice of
such violations. Notice sent by U.S. mail shall be deemed received seven days after
mailing. An affidavit shall be conclusive proof of mailing;

(4)

That at the time of the violation, the mortgage was not in default;

(5)

That at the time of the violation, the mortgagee was not the senior lienholder of record on
the real estate;

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 32

(6)

That a receiver has been appointed for the property by a court of competent jurisdiction;

(7)

That in a foreclosure of the property, the owner or mortgagor has taken any of the
following acts within the past 60 days:
(i)

filed any pleading which asserts claims against the mortgagee or
defenses;

(ii)

filed any motion which asserts defenses or claims against the mortgagee;

(iii)

filed any discovery for response by the mortgagee; or

(iv)

filed a request for mediation.

(d)
The Department of Building and Zoning may issue rules and regulations for the
administration of this section.
(e)
For the purposes of this section and Section 102-20, “vacant” shall mean any real estate
improved with a complete structure containing one or more dwelling units or an incomplete structure if
the real estate is zoned for residential development, where the structure is empty or otherwise uninhabited
by persons and the structure or lot is in need of maintenance, repair or securing, and with respect to which
one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1) all lawful business or construction operations have ceased for 6 (six) months;
(2) it has been declared unfit for occupancy and ordered to remain vacant and unoccupied under
an order issued by the enforcing authority or by an order issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction;
(3) no construction or legal repairs have commenced for 6 (six) months;
(4) the doors or windows are smashed through, broken, unhinged, removed or continuously
unlocked;
(5) law enforcement officials have received at least one report of trespassers or vandalism or
other illegal acts being committed at the property in the last 6 (six) months;
(6) gas, electrical or water services to the entire premises have been terminated.
A property shall not be considered vacant if: (i) there is an unoccupied building which is
undergoing construction, renovation, or rehabilitation that is proceeding diligently to completion, and the
building is in compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes, regulations and legislation; (ii) there is a
building occupied on a seasonal basis, but otherwise secure; (iii) there is a secure building on which there
are bona fide rental or sale signs; or (iv) there is a building that is secure, but is the subject of a probate
action, action to quiet title, or other ownership dispute; or (v) there is otherwise a building that is secure
and in substantial compliance with all applicable ordinances.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 33

(f)
If a building is registered under paragraph (a) of this section, only the registered
mortgagee shall be liable under this section during the registration period. Nothing in this section shall bar
the concurrent enforcement of any provision of this ordinance against the owner or owners of a property.
(g)
To the extent permitted by law, a mortgagee’s acts or omissions required by this section
shall not subject the mortgagee to civil or criminal liability unless the act or omission constitutes gross
negligence or willful, wanton, or intentional misconduct pursuant to this ordinance. This provision shall
not waive the requirement to obtain permits or licenses for performing certain work required under this
section, or otherwise required by this ordinance, or the penalties provided for failure to do so.
102-20. Mortgagee to inspect real estate.
(a)
For purposes of this section the terms “default,” “mortgage,” “mortgagee,”
“mortgagor,” shall be defined as provided in Section 102-4.
(b)
For the purposes of this section the term “vacant” shall be defined as provided in
Section 102-19(e).
(c)
Beginning 45 days after a default, a mortgagee shall determine, on a monthly basis, if the
building on the real estate subject to its mortgage is vacant. Such determination may be made by
communication with the mortgagor, a visual inspection of the real estate, or other means reasonably
calculated to determine if the building is vacant.
(d)
This section shall not require a mortgagee to perform any action which it is barred from
doing by an automatic stay pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding.
(e)
To the extent permitted by law, a mortgagee’s acts or omissions required by this section
shall not subject the mortgagee to civil or criminal liability unless the act or omission constitutes gross
negligence or willful, wanton, or intentional misconduct.
Sec. 102-21. Termination.
(a)
For purposes of this section the terms “mortgage,” and “mortgagee,” shall be defined as
provided in Section 102-4.
(b)
102-19(e).

For the purposes of this section the term “vacant” shall be defined as provided in Section

(c)
Upon the occurrence of any of the following, the requirements of Sections 102-19 and
102-20 shall terminate with respect to a mortgagee:
(1)

The filing with the Recorder of Deeds of a satisfaction or release of the
mortgagee’s mortgage;

(d)
Upon the occurrence of any of the following, the requirements of Sections 102-19 and
102-20 shall terminate with respect to a building:
(1)

The filing with the Recorder of Deeds of a conveyance of title to the underlying
real estate, pursuant to foreclosure proceedings or otherwise;

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 34
(2)

The building ceases to be vacant; or

(3)
The building is demolished with all permits required by Cook County Building and Zoning
and, where the property is located within a participating municipality, with all permits required by that
municipality.
(e)
Within 20 days of termination pursuant to this section, a mortgagee shall notify the
Department of Building and Zoning on a form provided by the Department of Building and Zoning for
such purpose.
Sec. 102-22. Improperly maintained buildings and structures subject to nuisance abatement
proceedings.
(a) The following buildings and structures are hereby declared to be public nuisances subject to
abatement proceedings under this section:
(1)

A building or structure found to be vacant and open after the effective date of an order to
secure and enclose issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or the department of
administrative hearings within the previous 12 months, unless stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction;

(2)

A building or structure that contains any violation of a health, fire, electrical, plumbing,
building or zoning provision of this code which is imminently dangerous and hazardous;

(3)

A building or structure for which the costs of the repairs necessary to bring the building
or structure into compliance with applicable laws would exceed the market value of the
building or structure after the repairs would have been made, or when the owner cannot
show that it has readily available and sufficient assets to make such repairs or where
such repairs otherwise are economically infeasible; or

(4)

A building or structure where an owner has failed to correct the code violation(s) that
form the basis of an adverse order or judgment involving that building or structure,
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer of the department of
administrative hearings, within 60 days of entry, unless such adverse order or judgment
has been stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
For purposes of this section “vacant” shall be defined as provided in Section 102-19(e)
for a mortgagee, for the purposes of this section “vacant” shall be defined as provided in
Section 102-5 for owners; and “open” refers to a building that has any door, window or
wall missing or unsecured, or has any other opening so as to allow entry by a human
being.

(b) The Office of the State’s Attorney is authorized to bring an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to abate a public nuisance described in this section. If the court finds that the County or
participating municipality has established by a preponderance of the evidence that the building or
structure identified in the notice is a public nuisance as described in this section, the court shall enter an
order of abatement which requires the owner or owners of record, including beneficial owners of any
Illinois land trust, within the time frame specified in the order, to take all reasonable measures necessary
to abate the public nuisance. The court’s order of abatement may include, but is not limited to: correcting
all code violations; altering, repairing or improving the building or structure, rendering the building or

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 35
structure unfit for human use or habitation; vacating or enclosing the building or structure; removing or
demolishing the building or structure. If requested by the State’s Attorney and reasonable in light of the
magnitude of the harm caused or which can reasonably be expected to be caused by the nuisance, the
market value of the property in its current condition, and the extent to which the defendant has failed to
take effective measures to abate the nuisance, the Court may enter an order which provides for:
(1) Forfeiture to the County or participating municipality of all of the defendant’s rights, title and
interest in the real estate, or
(2) Authorization to the first or senior mortgagee, as a receiver, to take possession of
the property and bring the property into compliance with the Cook County Vacant Building
Ordinance.
(c) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the issuance of an order of forfeiture of all of
the defendant’s rights, title and interest in the real estate or the issuance of an order authorizing the first or
senior mortgagee to take possession of the property and to bring the property into compliance with the
Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance shall be appropriate for any property that is determined to be a
nuisance under subparagraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(4) of this section. Whenever such an order of forfeiture
authorization is issued under this section with respect to a vacant building or a building containing four or
fewer residential units, the holder of the first or senior mortgage or lien on the property, disregarding any
more senior mortgages or liens held by a unit of government, shall, beginning 60 days after the date the
order is issued, be liable for any code violations on the property on and after that date, unless the holder
has waived its rights under the mortgage or lien; provided that the 60 day period after which liability
attaches may be extended by an administrative law officer or court upon a showing that the mortgage or
lienholder has exercised reasonable diligence in abating the nuisance and that additional time is needed to
complete the abatement. The holder of such a mortgage or lien shall have the right to take possession of
the property in order to effect necessary repairs beginning on the date that an order of forfeiture issues. In
any case in which an order of forfeiture is sought for property involving a vacant building or a building
containing four or fewer residential units, the holder of any first or senior mortgage or lien, disregarding
any more senior mortgage or lien held by a unit of government, shall be given notice and an opportunity
to intervene as a party.
(d)
For any building or structure that is a public nuisance subject to abatement proceedings
under this section, the owner, the owner’s agent for purposes of managing or controlling or collecting
rents on the building or structure, the holder of a mortgage or lien with a right to possession of the
building or structure under subsection (d) of this section, and any other person or mortgagee managing or
controlling the building or structure shall be fined not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each
day the nuisance has existed until the nuisance is abated. The amount of any fine imposed under this
section or under the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance in any proceeding involving a building or
structure that is a public nuisance under this section, the cost of the repairs, alterations, improvements, or
vacating and enclosing, or removal and demolition by the enforcing authority, and the costs of bringing
the abatement proceeding under this section into compliance, including inspector’s and attorney’s fees,
shall be recoverable from the owner or owners and shall be a lien on the property upon which the building
or structure is or was located and shall also be enforceable against any person or mortgagee against whom
the order issues as provided by law. Any lien created under this section may, upon a showing of good
cause, be waived by the Office of the State’s Attorney. The lien for the costs of repairs, alterations,
improvements, demolition, receivership, vacating or enclosing shall be a first lien upon the real estate and
the rents and issues thereof, and shall be superior to all prior assignments of rents and all prior existing
liens and encumbrances, except taxes, and shall be enforced pursuant to applicable law. No license shall
be issued relating to the property subject to such lien until the lien is satisfied or, upon a showing of good

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 36
cause, the lien is waived by the Office of the State’s Attorney. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
County or participating municipality from seeking other remedies for code violations through the use of
any other administrative procedure or court proceeding, including the imposition of fines set forth for
violations of the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance.
(e) Any property forfeited to the County under this section may be disposed of as authorized by
the County Board.
(f) All fees and fines laid out in this section are in addition to any fees and fines in the Cook
County Building and Zoning Ordinance.
102-23. Demolition of open, hazardous residential and commercial buildings.
(a) If a residential building has been determined by the appropriate enforcing authority pursuant
to Section 102-22 (b) to be open and vacant and an immediate and continuing hazard to the community in
which the building is located, then the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning shall be
authorized to post a notice of not less than two feet by two feet in size on the front of the building. The
notice shall be dated as of the date of the posting and shall state that unless the building is demolished,
repaired, or enclosed, and unless any garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials are removed so that an immediate and continuing hazard to the community no
longer exists, then the building may be demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage, debris, and
other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials may be removed, by the enforcing
authority. Not later than 30 days following the posting of the notice, the Department of Building and
Zoning shall do the following:
(1) Cause to be sent, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to all owners of record
of the property, the beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the property, and all lien
holders of record in the property, stating the intent of the Department of Building and Zoning to demolish,
repair, or enclose the building, or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials if that action is not taken by the owner or owners or lien holders of record.
(2)

Cause to be published, in a newspaper published in the municipality, a notice setting
forth:
(i) the address of the building or description of the real estate sufficient for its
identification,
(ii) a statement that the property is open and vacant and constitutes an immediate
and continuing hazard to the community, and
(iii) a statement that the Department of Building and Zoning intends to demolish, repair,
or enclose the building, or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious,
or unhealthy substances or materials if the owner or owners or lien holders of record
fail to do so. This notice shall be published for three consecutive days.

(3)

Cause to be filed in the office of the recorder of deeds and registrar of titles, a notice setting
forth (i) the address of the building or a description of the real estate sufficient for its
identification; and (ii) a statement that the Department of Building and Zoning has initiated
an action under Section 102-23 to cause the demolition, repair or enclosure of the building
or the removal of garbage, debris or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 37
materials located on the property if the owner or owners or lien holders of record fail to do
so. If the building is not demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or the garbage, debris, or other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are not removed, within 30 days
of mailing the notice described in subsection (a)(1) of this section or within 30 days of the
last day of publication of the notice, whichever is later, the Department of Building and
Zoning shall cause to be sent, by mail, a final determination to the owners of record, the
beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the property, and all lien holders
of record in the property, which provides notice that the Department of Building and
Zoning has determined that the necessary demolition, repair, enclosure or removal action
has not been taken and that the building remains open and vacant and an immediate and
continuing hazard to the community in which the building is located. The final
determination shall include a statement that, unless a hearing is sought under this chapter
before a court of competent jurisdiction to object to the proposed actions of the
Department of Building and Zoning and a copy of the complaint served on the Cook
County Board President within ten days of the mailing of the final determination, the
Department of Building and Zoning intends to exercise its power to demolish, repair, or
enclose the buildings, or to remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials.
The Department of Building and Zoning may proceed to demolish, repair, or enclose a building
or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials under
this subsection within a 120 day period following the date of the mailing of the notice described in
subsection (a)(1) of this section if the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning
determines that the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal of any garbage, debris, or other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials is necessary to remedy the immediate and continuing
hazard. “If, however, before the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning proceeds with
any of the actions authorized by this chapter, any person or mortgagee who has sought a hearing under
this chapter before a court and has served a copy of the complaint on the Cook County Board President,
then the County shall not proceed with the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal of garbage, debris, or
other substances until the court determines that action is necessary to remedy the hazard and issues an
order authorizing the enforcing authority to do so.
Following the demolition, repair, or enclosure of a building, or removal of garbage, debris, or
other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials under this subsection, the County may file
a notice of lien against the real estate for the cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal within
180 days after the repair, demolition, enclosure, or removal occurred, for the cost and expense incurred, in
the office of the recorder of deeds and registrar of titles. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn
statement setting forth (i) a description of the real estate, such as the address or other description of the
property, sufficient for its identification; (ii) the expenses incurred by the enforcing authority in
undertaking the remedial actions authorized by this chapter; (iii) the date or dates that the expenses were
incurred by the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning or his designee; (iv) a statement
by the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning that the building was open and vacant
and constituted an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; (v) a statement by the
Commissioner of the Department of Building and Zoning that the required sign was posted on the
building, that notice was sent by certified mail to the owners of record, and that notice was published in
accordance with this subsection; and (vi) a statement as to when and where the notice was published. The
lien authorized by this chapter may thereafter be released or enforced by the County as provided in in 55
ILCS Division 5-41 or by a participating municipality as provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1(c), previously
codified as Illinois Revised Statutes, Ch. 24, Par. 11-31-1(c) and Section 2-901 et. seq. of the Cook
County, Illinois Code of Ordinances.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 38

Sec. 102-24. Notice requirement of Section 5.4-3c.(2).
The notice requirement set out in Section 5.4-3c.(2) of the Cook County Building Ordinance shall
not apply to the provisions in the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance.
Sec. 102-25. Municipality Outreach and Enforcement.
The Bureau of Economic Development shall engage in outreach and planning functions with
Municipalities to determine participation interest. Municipalities interested in enforcing the Cook
County Vacant Building Ordinance shall seek to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with Cook
County to enforce the Cook County Vacant Building Ordinance within the boundaries of that
municipality.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect sixty (60) days after adoption.
Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to Approve the Substitute
Ordinance for (Communication No. 315462) as amended. The motion carried.
Chairman Silvestri requested that the letter from Thomas W. Barwin, Village Manager, Village of Oak
Park, dated December 13, 2011, be made part of the record. (ATTACHMENT A)
Chairman Silvestri asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd). As the Committee proceeded to hear public
testimony, the Secretary informed Chairman Daley that a quorum was present.
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
9)
10)
11)
12)
13)
14)
15)

Karen Yarbrough – Illinois House of Representatives
Greg Ignoffo – Township Administrator – Leyden Township
Braden Listmann – Housing Policy Director, Action Now
Sam Pulia – President, Village of Westchester
Tom Feltner – Vice President, Woodstock Institute
Robert Silverman – Staff Counsel, Business and Professional People for the Public Interest
George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen
David A. Mekarski – Village Administrator, Village of Olympia Fields
Brian Bernardoni – Chicago Association of Realtors
Amy Brennan – Chase Bank
Dan Lindsey – Supervisory Attorney, Legal Assistance Foundation
Michael Dickman – Legal Aid Society of Metropolitan Chicago
Juliana Gonzalez-Crussi – Policy Analyst/Housing Outreach Coordinator, Latino Policy Forum
Dan Kildee – President/Chief Executive Officer, Center for Community Progress
Margaret Wooten – Director of Housing, Chicago Urban League

Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to adjourn. The motion carried
and the meeting was adjourned.

 ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING REPORT
DECEMBER 14, 2011
PAGE 39
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 315462

Approved As Amended
(Substitute Ordinance)

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Zoning and Building

____________________________
Peter N. Silvestri, Chairman

Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

*The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark
Street, Room 436, Chicago, IL 60602.

 