mg A Closed Session Minutes
. . Video Gaming Meeting
Illinois Gaming Board

Chicago, Illinois
April .18, 2012

NOTE: IN BOLDFACE NT BOARD ACTIONS

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) convened for a Video (Earning Meeting on April 18, 201.2.
The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board conference'room:
Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Member Michael Holewinski, Member Lee Gould and Member Maribet'h
Vander Weele.

The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark ()strowski, General Counsel
Carter, Illegal Counsel 'lf-imily Mattison, Deputy Administrator/Investigations Scott Deubel,
Deputy Administrator/Audit and .li?inancial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit Manager Jim Lopinski,
Project Manager Mark Stevens, SE1) Director Gene O?Shea and Secretary to the Board Monica
Biddings. Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed participated by phone.

At 11:25 AM. the meeting was called to order, pursuant to Section paragraphs (1), (1.1.),
(14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act,
Member Gould moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed
under closed session on today?s agenda and relating to personnel, investigations concerning
applicants and licensees, pending litigation and closed session minutes.

Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

Member (iould moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its "Regular Meeting
of March 14 and 15, 2012. Member I-"iolewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call.

The Board and. Staff discussed other investigations, complaints and disciplinary actions.

At 12:00 BM. License Coordinator Robert Burke entered the meeting. The Board continued their
conversation. regarding other investigations, complaints and disciplinary actions.

At 12:25 PM. Robert Burke exited the meeting. The Board recessed.

At 12:40 RM. the Board reconvened. Legal Counsel William Bogot, Squad Leader Sara Cox,
Special Agent ?I?anessa Ferguson and Special Agent Richard Mahan entered the meeting.

The Board and Staff discussed a proposed complaints and. disciplinary action surrounding 
City Vendors Gaming LLC.

The Board and Staff discussed Jon I). Yarbrough in, a bene?ciary of shareholder trust for VGT
Manufacturing and Distribution.

The Board and Staff discussed Jason Allen Goudie, a PSIC for Aristocrat Technologies, Inc.

The Board and Staff discussed Patrick W. Kellick, a PSIC for VGT Manufacturing and
'I'Jistribution.

The Board and Staff discussed Safe Pay Services, LLC and its request for a Supplier?s .License.

The Board and Staff discussed Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board. and Staff discussed 'fl"orch, and its request for a. Terminal Operator?s License.
The Board and Staff discussed Illinois Operators, Inc. and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
license.

The Board and Staffdiscussed Cash Magic, LLC and its request fora Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staffdiscussed Alton Video Gaming, Inc. and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s license.

The Board and Staff discussed Schaftner Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed T?s Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Brass Ring Gaming, Inc. and its request for a 'il'errninal Operator?s
License. 

The Board and Staff discussed Universal Gaming Group, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board. and Staff revisited their conversation regarding Midwest Electronics Gaming, LLC.

At 3:00 BM. Sara Cox, 'li?anessa ?li?erguson and Richard Mahan exited the meeting.

License.

The Board and Staff discussed Great Lakes Vending Corp. and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s license.

The Board and. Staff discussed ASAP Gaming, Inc. and its request for a Terminal. Operator?s
License.

?.l"he Board. and Staff discussed Grand. River Jackpot, LLC and its request for a rli?erminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staffdiscussed Ideal. Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and Staff discussed Gaming Entertainment Management Illinois, LLC and its
request for a Terminal Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Tangent Gaming Capital, and its request for a Terminal
license.

The Board and Staff discussed Illinois Gaming Investors, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed MJ Solutions, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s
License.

The Board and. Staff discussed Velasquez Gaming, LLC and its request for a Terminal
Operator?s License.

The Board and Staff discussed Da Route, LLC and its request for a Terminal Operator?s License.
No Personnel matters were discussed.
At 3:20 RM. Member Gould moved to recess "until Thursday, April 19, 2012 at 9:45 AM.

Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

 
 

Mo ica Biddings
Se retary to the Board

The Illinois Gaming Board (?Board?) reconvened for a Video Gaming Meeting on April 19,
2012 at 10:05 AM. The following Board members were present in the Illinois Gaming Board
conference room: Member Michael I-Iolewinski, Member Lee Gould and Member Maribeth.

. Vander Weele.

The following staff were also in attendance: Administrator Mark Ostrowski, General Counsel.
Carter, [Legal Counsel "lilimily Mattison, "Deputy Administrator/lnvestigations Scott Deubel,
Deputy Administrator/Audit and Financial Analysis Doug Bybee, Audit Manager l'i'm ._,Lopinski
1?1 OJLLI Manage} Mark Stevens 1? DirectOI Gene O?Shea, legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed
and Secretary to the Board Monica ?Biddings

The Board and Staff discussed Grand River Jackpot, and its request for a ?I?erminal
Operator?s License.

At 10:07 AM. Chairman Jaffe entered the meeting. The Board and Staff continued their
discussion regarding Grand River Jackpot, LLC.

At 10:10 Member Gould moved to adjourn and go into Open session. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

?ca 5/1501??
Mo] caBiddings
Se *etary to the Board

   
 

