Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting

Chairman of Finance Frank Avila, Commissioner Timothy
Bradford, Commissioner Martin J. Durkan, Vice-President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Josina Morita,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Board of
Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Monday, November 20, 2017

2:45 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the Special Meeting to
order at 2:45 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Public Comment
None

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

17-1228

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos a Special Meeting will be
held on Monday, November 20, 2017, at 2:45 p.m. in the Board Room, 100 East
Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to discuss seeking federal funds for the

District's completion of the McCook Reservoir project in lump sum.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Timothy Bradford, that this
Report be Adopted. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No
nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

2

Meeting Minutes

17-1229

November 20, 2017

Authorization for the District to assume responsibility for the completion of the
design and construction of remaining elements of the McCook Reservoir in
exchange for receiving a lump sum payment from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers for the federal government’s share of the estimated remaining costs,
Project 73-161-2H (As Revised)
A motion was made by Timothy Bradford, seconded by Martin J. Durkan, that this
Agenda Item be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Aye:

9-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Open Discussion
None

Adjournment
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Timothy Bradford, that the
Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing agenda
items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 20, 2017, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 20, 2017

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 