MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
JUNE 28, 1999
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on June 28, 1999, in room #S-304 of the State of
Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board member was present, Robert F. Vickrey, Chairman, and the following Board members participated
via a telephonic conference call: Members William Browder, Joseph Lamendella, and Stuart Levine.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Robert F. Casey, Deputy Administrators Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, Roger
Shiels, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Counsel Mareile’ Cusack, other members of the staff, and interested parties.
The meeting was convened at 2:00 p.m. Member Lamendella moved that the Board retire to Closed Session
pursuant to section 2(c), paragraphs (1) and (4) of the Open Meetings Act to discuss the following subject
matters:
Issues concerning applicants and licensees; and
Personnel matters.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 2:35 p.m.
Chairman Vickrey reported that on June 25, 1999 Governor Ryan signed into law new legislation that impacts the
Riverboat Gambling Act. He stated that due to this new legislation the Board must promulgate new rules.
Chief Counsel Cusack reported that staff recommends that the Board adopt rules on an emergency basis and that
concurrently the Board authorize the first notice submission of the rules with the Secretary of State. Chief Counsel
Cusack outlined the rule changes.
Member Levine moved that the Board adopt the following proposed rules on an emergency basis and
concurrently authorize the First notice submission of these rules with the Secretary of State for publishing:
The amendments to Board Rule 3000.230, regarding owner’s licenses;
New Board Rule 3000.232, regarding undue economic concentration;
The amendments to Board Rule 3000.235, regarding the transferability of owner’s licenses;
The amendments to Board Rule 3000.236, regarding owner’s license renewals;
New Board Rule 3000.237, regarding the term and restrictions on renewed owner’s licenses;
The amendments to Board Rules 3000.500 and 3000.510, regarding time of excursions and cruise disruptions;
and
The amendments to Board Rule 3000.1071, regarding the admission and wagering tax.
Member Lamendella seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman Vickrey announced that this was the final meeting for William Browder and thanked him for his many years of
service and wished him well.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Browder moved that the Board stand adjourned.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 2:50
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Susan O. Weber
Secretary of the Board

 