Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Tuesday, June 17, 2014

10:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Room 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd).
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
APPOINTMENTS
14-3190
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Appointee: Jack L. Block
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Human Rights
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 7/1/2015, or until a successor is appointed. Mr. Block will fill the vacancy of Belkis
Cervantes Muldoon.
The nominee’s resume and statement of interest were entered into the record. The nominee also gave an oral
statement as to his interest in and qualifications for the position.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Appointment
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)

 14-3191
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Appointee: Ceylan Eatherton
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Human Rights
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 7/1/2015, or until a successor is appointed. Ms. Eatherton will fill the vacancy of Jae Choi
Kim.
The nominee’s statement of interest and resume were entered into the record. The nominee also gave an oral
statement as to her interest in and qualifications for the position.
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Appointment be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)

14-3193
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Appointee: Lyneir D. Richardson
Position: Director
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Land Bank Authority Board of Directors
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/1/2017, or until a successor is appointed. The appointment is pursuant to the requirement
that the Land Bank Authority Board contain one (1) representative with commercial retail development
experience. Pursuant to Cook County's home rule powers, it is hereby requested that the residency requirement
for this appointee be waived.
The nominee’s statement of interest and resume were entered into the record. The nominee also gave an oral
statement as to his interest in and qualifications for the position.
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Butler, to waive the residency
requirement for this appointment. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)

Page 2 of 8

 A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Appointment be
recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)

14-3195
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Appointee: Alex Botvinnik
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Northfield Woods Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6/2/2017, or until a successor is appointed
The nominee’s resume was entered into the record. The nominee also gave an oral statement as to his interest in
and qualifications for the position.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Appointment
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
14-2492
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENTS TO COOK COUNTY
BUREAUS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article IV, Division
1 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Section 2-141. - Presidential Appointments
The following Cook County employees shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Commissioners:
(a) Public Defender (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-4004.1);
(b) Director of Facilities Management (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-14003);
(c) Budget Director (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-14005);
(d) Chief Administrative Officer (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-14006); and
(e) Chief Information Officer (pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-14010);
Page 3 of 8

 …
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Article II, Section
42-34(a)(6) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 42-34. - Commission on Human Rights.
The organization and administration of the Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall be
sufficiently independent to assure that no interference or influence external to the office adversely affects the
independence and objectivity of the Commission on Human Rights.
(a) Enforcement.
(1) The President shall appoint 11 members to a Commission on Human Rights ("Commission")
subject to approval of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. In appointing members
to the Commission, the President shall take into account the diversity of communities
and conditions protected by this article and shall seek the input of affected communities.
Four of the initial appointees shall be appointed for term expiring on July 1 of the year
following their appointment, four shall be appointed for term expiring on July 1 of the
second year following their appointment, and three shall be appointed for terms ending
on July 1 of the third year following their appointment. Thereafter, members shall be
appointed for three-year terms.
(2) Each member of the Commission:
a. Shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the County;
b. Shall not be an employee of the County during the member's term; and
c. Shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses
incurred in the performance of Commission duties.
(3) A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
transacting business.
(4) At its first meeting after July 1 of each year, the Commission shall elect from its membership
a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. The chairperson shall preside at all meetings and
hearings of the Commission. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson
shall preside.
(5) The President may remove any member of the Commission for incompetence, substantial
neglect of duty, gross misconduct, malfeasance in office, or violation of any law, after
written notice, stating with particularity the grounds for removal and providing an
opportunity for the member to respond.
(6) The President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners, shall appoint an
Executive Director of the staff for the Commission. The Executive Director shall be
responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Commission and its staff.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article VII,
Division 2, Subdivision IV, Section 2-591 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-591. Composition and powers.
The organization and administration of the Cook County Board of Ethics shall be sufficiently
independent to assure that no interference or influence external to the office adversely affects the independence
and objectivity of the Board of Ethics. The composition and powers of the Board of Ethics are as follows:
Page 4 of 8

 (1) The Board of Ethics shall be composed of five members appointed by the President
of the County Board with the advice and consent of the County Board and will take
into account the diversity of communities and conditions protected by this article.
The Board of Ethics shall have an executive director who shall be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article VI, Division
1, Section 2-473 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-473. - Cook County Justice Advisory Council.
(a) There is hereby created a Judicial Advisory Council which shall consist of five
members who shall be appointed by the President of the County Board; said Council
shall be referred to as the Cook County Justice Advisory Council. All shall be
persons learned in the law, and two at least of their number shall be members of the
judiciary. The persons thus appointed shall hold office for four years and until their
respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified. They shall serve
without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for all expenses incurred in carrying
out the duties defined by this section. The President, with the advice and consent of
the Board of Commissioners, shall appoint an Executive Director of the Justice
Advisory Council.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26, Article II, Section
26-32 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 26-32. - Executive Director.
(a) The Executive Director of the DHSEM shall be appointed by the President of the County Board
of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners and shall serve
until removed by the President.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article VI, Division
1, Section 2-471 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-471. - Veteran's Assistance Commission.
The County Board does concur in the action of the President of the County Board in
incorporating the activities of the Veteran's Assistance Commission of Cook County into
the County Bureau of Administration. The President, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Commissioners, shall appoint the Superintendant of the Veterans Assistance
Commission.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article III, Division
2, Section 2-102 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Page 5 of 8

 Sec. 2-102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
a different meaning:
(a) Board means the County Board.
(b) Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed County Board Commissioner, and
means the same as "member" of the Board.
(c) Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special
committee and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.
(d) Clerk means the Clerk of the Board.
(e) Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by
this division.
(f) Majority means a simple majority of those Commissioners present and entitled to vote on a
question, while a Majority vote means the vote of a simple majority of those Commissioners
present and entitled to vote on a question.
(g) Majority of those elected means a majority of the total number of Commissioners entitled by
law to be elected to the Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed
Commissioners actually serving in office. So long as 17 Commissioners are entitled to be
elected to the Board, a vote of a "majority of those elected" shall mean nine affirmative votes.
(h) President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(i) Secretary means the Secretary of the Board who has been appointed by the President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Commissioners.
(j) Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the
Commissioners.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44, Article II, Section
44-45 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 44-45. - Bureau of Human Resources.
(a) Established; Chief of Human Resources to be Chief Executive Officer of Bureau of Human
Resources. There is hereby established a bureau which shall be known as the Bureau of
Human Resources. The Chief of Human Resources shall be the chief executive officer of the
Bureau of Human Resources and shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Commissioners, and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. The
Chief of Human Resources shall be responsible for the general management and control of
the Bureau of Human Resources in a manner consistent with the ordinances of the County,
the laws of the state, and the rules of the Bureau.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article VII,
Division 2, Section 2-591 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-591. - Composition and powers.
The organization and administration of the Cook County Board of Ethics shall be sufficiently independent to
assure that no interference or influence external to the office adversely affects the independence and objectivity of
the Board of Ethics. The composition and powers of the Board of Ethics are as follows:
Page 6 of 8

 (1) The Board of Ethics shall be composed of five members appointed by the President of the
County Board with the advice and consent of the County Board and will take into account the
diversity of communities and conditions protected by this article. The Board of Ethics shall have
an executive director who shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Commissioners.
…
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 10, Article I, Section
10-2 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 10-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the licensed veterinarian appointed by the President, with the advice and consent
of the County Board, pursuant to the Illinois Animal Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) or authorized
representative.
Animal means any live vertebrate creature except man.
Animal capable of transmitting rabies means all animals classified as mammals.
Animal control warden means an employee of the County appointed by the Administrator to powers in the
enforcement of this chapter.
Bird means any flying vertebrate that is covered with feathers.
Bite means seizure of a person with the jaws or teeth of any cat, dog or other animal capable of transmitting rabies
so that the person so seized has been wounded or pierced and further includes contact of the saliva of cat, dog or
other animal with any break or abrasion of the skin.
Cat means all members of the classification, Felis catus.
Confined means the restriction of the cat, dog or other animal at all times by the owner in a manner that will
isolate the cat, dog or other animal from the public and other cats, dogs or other animals.
Control means any owned animal that is either secured by a leash or lead, or within the premises of its owner, or
confined within a crate or cage, or confined within a vehicle, or within the premises of another person with the
consent of that person.
Dangerous or vicious animal means any animal which has known vicious propensities or which has been known
to attack or injure any person who was peacefully conducting themselves in any place where they may lawfully
be.
Dog means all members of the classification, Canis familiaris.
Domestic animal means any animal which has been domesticated by man so as to live and breed in a tame
condition.
Guard dog means a dog used in a commercial business or by a municipal or police department for the purposes of
patrol and protection.
Inoculation against rabies means the injection of a rabies vaccine approved by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture and administered by a licensed veterinarian in accordance with the company's recommendations for
the vaccine used.
Owner means any person having the right of property in an animal, who keeps or harbors an animal, who has it in
their care, acts as its custodian or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied
by them unless possession is prohibited by Federal or State laws. Native wildlife remaining on or about any
premises shall not be included in this definition.

Page 7 of 8

 Pound means any facility licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture and approved by the Administration
for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted
animals.
Service animal means any guide dog, signal dog, or other animal individually trained to do work or perform tasks
for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including, but not limited to, guiding individuals with impaired
vision, alerting individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds, providing minimal protection or rescue
work, pulling a wheelchair, or fetching dropped items.
Stray animal means any owned animal that is not controlled.
Tethering means to restrain a dog by tying the dog to any object or structure, including without limitation a house,
tree, fence, post, garage, shed, [or] clothes line by any means, including without limitation a chain, rope, cord,
leash or running line.
Tow chain or log chain means any chain that is more than one-quarter of an inch in width.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, that this Ordinance be
recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer,
García, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Reyes (1)
ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Moore, moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
passed and the meeting was adjourned.
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
File ID 14-3190……………………….………………………………………………. Recommended for Approval
File ID 14-3191……………………….………………………………………………. Recommended for Approval
Motion to waive residency requirement for File ID-3193……………………………. Recommended for Approval
File ID 14-3193……………………….………………………………………………. Recommended for Approval
File ID 14-3195……………………….………………………………………………. Recommended for Approval
File ID 14-2492……………………….………………………………………..………Recommended for Deferral
Respectfully submitted,

___________________________________
Chairman

_________________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com
Page 8 of 8

 