REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Butler, Claypool,
Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Peraica, Reyes, Silvestri and
Steele (13)

Absent:

President Stroger and Commissioners Beavers, Murphy, Schneider and
Suffredin (4)

Also Present:

David Orr, Cook County Clerk

Court Reporter:

Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice for a public hearing on Thursday, October 1, 2009 at the hour of 10:30 A.M.
in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
With respect to Communication Numbers 302410 and 302411, Chairman Daley asked
the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with Cook
County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd), as follows:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Krista Grimm – Board Member, League of Women Voters of Cook County. Supports
prohibition of video gaming.
Paul Duda – representing Wells-Gardner Electronics Corporation. Written statement also
distributed. Opposes prohibition of video gaming.
George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen. Supports prohibition of video gaming.
Andy Shaw – Executive Director, Better Government Association. No position on
Communication Numbers 302410 and 302411. Supports prohibition of video gaming.
Glenn Keiffer – Keiffer’s Restaurant. No position on merits.
James Wagner – Past President, Chicago Crime Commission. Supports prohibition of
video gaming.
Honorable James Meeks – State Senator. Supports prohibition of video gaming.
Christopher Anderson – Director, Gambling Recovery Center. Supports prohibition of
video gaming.
Anita Bedell – Illinois Church Action. Supports prohibition of video gaming.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 2
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

John Pastuovic – Director of Public Affairs, Chicago Crime Commission. Written
statement also distributed. Supports prohibition of video gaming.
Chris Hesch – A. H. Entertainers. Opposes prohibition of video gaming.
John Beinarauskas – Concerned Citizen. Supports prohibition of video gaming.
Athanosios Tom Matsas – Concerned Citizen. Opposes prohibition of video gaming.
Les Bernal – Executive Director, Stop Predatory Gambling. Written statement also
distributed. Supports prohibition of video gaming.
Darren Decatoire – People for Video Poker. Opposes prohibition of video gaming.
Michael Anton – Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department. Supports prohibition of video
gaming.
Nancy Duel – United Methodist Church in Northern Illinois Conference. Supports
prohibition of video gaming.
Mike Pappas – Illinois Coin Machine Operators Association. Opposes prohibition of video
gaming.

Chairman Daley inquired of Mr. Anton if the position he stated, which supports the Ordinance
Amendment, is that of Sheriff Thomas Dart. Mr. Anton responded yes; Sheriff Dart does
support the prohibition of video gaming in unincorporated Cook County.
Your Committee then considered the first item relating to prohibiting video gaming in
unincorporated Cook County, Communication Number 302410.
302410

ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT
PROHIBITING
VIDEO
GAMING
IN
UNINCORPORATED
COOK
COUNTY
(PROPOSED
ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
Gregg Goslin and Anthony J. Peraica, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
PROHIBITS VIDEO GAMING IN UNINCORPORATED COOK COUNTY
AS PROVIDED FOR IN THE ILLINOIS VIDEO GAMING ACT
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois’ Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.; PA 10
96-0034) became law July 13, 2009 and allows licensed retail establishments to
conduct video gambling; and
WHEREAS, recognizing that some Illinois local jurisdictions would desire to opt
out of video gambling, Section 27 of the Video Gaming Act permits counties and
municipalities to prohibit video gaming by ordinance within their respective
corporate limits or unincorporated areas; and
WHEREAS, states such as Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina have
abandoned experiments with the legalization of video poker because of regulatory
difficulties, corruption, and the high social costs associated with this form of
gambling; and
WHEREAS, electronic gaming is designed to entice people to play longer, faster,
and at higher rates of wagering, according to a study by the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology; and

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 3

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County
Board President agree that legalized video poker would present a variety of
adverse impacts on residents of Cook County including the potential for corruption,
increasing the costs of law enforcement, regulatory difficulties, and high social
costs; and
WHEREAS, the legalization of video poker within Cook County is not consistent
with our desire to maintain a family friendly environment for citizens and their
children; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County
Board President call on every municipality within Cook County to join the County in
prohibiting video gaming.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, that Chapter 58 Offenses and Miscellaneous Provisions, Section
58-161 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 58-161. Gaming devices.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gaming device means any device, mechanism or implement which, upon
operation of the device, mechanism or implement, is used in playing games which
includes, but which is not limited to pinball or any game which is a form of pinball,
or any game which is a form of poker, keno, bingo or any variation of a slot
machine, and shall include those devices, mechanisms or implements having a
video display which are intended to be played. Gaming device shall also include
any device authorized by the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
Place of public resort means any premises wherein any service or
merchandise is offered for sale to the public or where gaming devices are used,
kept, owned, played or operated, or any premises used as a clubhouse or
clubrooms, or any premises which are licensed by Cook County to engage in
business, including businesses licensed to serve and/or sell alcoholic beverages.
Place of public resort shall also include any place authorized by the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., to conduct video gaming.
(b)
Owning, operating, etc., in place of public resort. It shall be
unlawful for any person, to keep, own, play, use or operate, or cause to be kept,
owned, played, used, or operated, in any place of public resort within the
unincorporated area of the County, any gambling device, where the player, by
playing the game, is entitled to accumulate points or replays for receipt of reward,
money, or any other item of value. Such gaming devices shall not be prohibited
where the player is rewarded only with additional opportunities to play. This
section shall not be deemed to prohibit any games of chance or skill which were

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 4
expressly authorized by State law on or before April 1, 1994. However, this
section does prohibit any video gaming authorized by 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. and
video gaming licenses authorized by 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. shall not be valid within
the unincorporated areas of Cook County.
(c)
Seizure. It is hereby made the duty of every law enforcement
officer to seize any gaming device kept or used in violation of this section and,
such gaming device so seized may, upon court order, be destroyed. Any person
obstructing or resisting any law enforcement officer in the performance of any act
authorized by this subsection shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than
$500.00 for each offense.
(d)
Penalty for violation. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. The playing or permitting
play of each individual game in violation of this section shall constitute a distinct
and separate offense. Any violation of this section by a liquor licensee may be
cause for the revocation or suspension of a liquor license.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective upon adoption.
* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 09/01/09.
Commissioner Goslin entered into the record an e-mail he received from Eugene R. Dawson,
Supervisor of Barrington Township, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, moved to defer
consideration of the proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 302410) to
the October 20, 2009 meeting of the Finance Committee. Commissioner Peraica called
for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO DEFER
COMMUNICATION NO. 302410 TO THE
OCTOBER 20, 2009 FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING
Yeas:

Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Reyes, Silvestri,
Steele and Chairman Daley (10)

Nays:

Commissioners Butler and Peraica (2)

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers, Murphy, Schneider, Vice Chairman Sims and Suffredin (5)

The motion to defer Communication No. 302410 to the October 20, 2009 Finance
Committee meeting CARRIED.
Your Committee next considered the second item relating to prohibiting video gaming in
unincorporated Cook County, Communication Number 302411.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 5
302411

ORDINANCE AMENDMENT PROHIBITING VIDEO GAMING WITHIN
UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF COOK COUNTY (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
Bridget Gainer, Earlean Collins, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman, Joan Patricia
Murphy, and Deborah Sims, Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool, John P. Daley,
Anthony J. Peraica and Robert B. Steele, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT PROHIBITING VIDEO GAMING
WITHIN UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.; P.A. 96-0034) became
law on July 13, 2009 and allows licensed retail, veterans, fraternal, or truck stop
establishments to install video gaming terminals on their premises for the purpose
of conducting video gambling; and
WHEREAS, Section 58-161 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances currently
prohibits the operation of video gaming devices in places of public resort within the
unincorporated areas of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, legalized video poker would present a variety of adverse impacts on
residents of Cook County including the potential for corruption, impact on the costs
of law enforcement, regulatory difficulties, and high social costs; and
WHEREAS, the Video Gaming Act was passed with no public input or analysis on
the impact on municipalities or counties that will be charged with implementing and
enforcing the Video Gaming Act; and
WHEREAS, states such as Iowa, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina
have gone on to repeal legalized video gaming because of regulatory difficulties,
corruption, and the high social costs associated with this form of gambling; and
WHEREAS, according to a study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
electronic gaming is designed to entice people to play longer, faster, and at higher
rates of wagering; and
WHEREAS, Section 27 of the Video Gaming Act permits counties and
municipalities to prohibit video gaming within their respective corporate limits or
unincorporated areas; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of government under Article VII,
Section 6 of the Illinois Constitution and as such, may prohibit video gambling
within its corporate limits through exercising its home rule powers; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners calls upon every
municipality within Cook County to join the County in prohibiting video gambling.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 6
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 58 Offenses and Miscellaneous Provisions, Section
58-161 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 58-161. Gaming devices.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gaming device means any device, mechanism or implement which, upon
operation of the device, mechanism or implement, is used in playing games which
includes, but which is not limited to pinball or any game which is a form of poker,
keno, bingo or any variation of a slot machine, and shall include those devices,
mechanisms or implements having a video display which are intended to be
played. The term “gaming device” specifically includes video gaming terminals, as
that term is defined in Section 5 of the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/5).
Place of public resort means any premises wherein any service or
merchandise is offered for sale to the public or where gaming devices are used,
kept, owned, played or operated, or any premises used as a clubhouse or
clubrooms, or any premises which are licensed by Cook County to engage in
business, including businesses licensed to serve and/or sell alcoholic beverages.
The term “place of public resort” specifically includes licensed establishments,
licensed fraternal establishments, licensed veterans establishments and licensed
truck stop establishments, as those terms are defined in Section 5 of the Illinois
Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/5).
(b)
Owning, operating, etc., in place of public resort. It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep, own, play, use or operate, or cause to be kept,
owned, played, used or operated, in any place of public resort within the
unincorporated area of the County, any gambling device, including a video gaming
terminal, where the player, by playing the game, is entitled to accumulate points or
replays for receipt of reward, money, or any other item of value. Such gaming
devices shall not be prohibited where the player is rewarded only with additional
opportunities to play. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit any games of
chance or skill which were expressly authorized by State law on or before April 1,
1994.
(c)
Seizure. It is hereby made the duty of every law enforcement
officer to seize any gaming device kept or used in violation of this section and,
such gaming device so seized may, upon court order, be destroyed. Any person
obstructing or resisting any law enforcement officer in the performance of any act
authorized by this subsection shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than
$500.00 for each offense.
(d)
Penalty for violation. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. The playing or permitting

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 7
play of each individual game in violation of this section shall constitute a distinct
and separate offense. Any violation of this section by a liquor licensee may be
cause for the revocation or suspension of a liquor license.
Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective upon adoption.
* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 09/01/09.
Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Daley, Peraica and Steele requested to be added as
sponsors. Commissioner Gorman asked to be removed as a sponsor.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved that the Ordinance
Amendment (Communication No. 302411) be approved and adopted.
Following discussion, Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Moreno,
moved to defer consideration of the proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication
No. 302411). Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays
being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO DEFER
Yeas:

Commissioners Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Reyes and Silvestri (5)

Nays:

Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Peraica, Steele and Chairman
Daley (7)

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers, Murphy, Schneider, Vice Chairman Sims and Suffredin (5)

The motion to defer FAILED.
Returning to the main motion to approve the Ordinance Amendment (Communication No.
302411), Commissioner Gainer called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as
follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE
THE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
(COMMUNICATION NO. 302411)
Yeas:

Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Peraica, Reyes,
Silvestri, Steele and Chairman Daley (11)

Nays:

Commissioner Moreno (1)

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers, Murphy, Schneider, Vice Chairman Sims and Suffredin (5)

The motion carried and the Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 302411) was
APPROVED AND ADOPTED.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 8
With respect to Communication Number 302613, Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the
Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec.
2-108(dd). Secretary DeLeon responded that no one had registered to testify regarding
Communication Number 302613.
302613

AMENDMENTS TO THE ETHICS AND LOBBYIST ORDINANCES (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS). Submitting Proposed Ordinance Amendments
sponsored by Bridget Gainer, Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman and Joan Patricia
Murphy, County Commissioners; Co-Sponsored by Todd H. Stroger, President,
William M. Beavers, Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P. Daley,
Gregg Goslin, Joseph Mario Moreno, Anthony J. Peraica, Edwin Reyes, Timothy
O. Schneider, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele and Larry
Suffredin, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS
AMENDMENTS TO THE ETHICS AND LOBBYIST ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, accountability in government requires greater transparency as to who
is lobbying officials and employees on Cook County contracts and decisions; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Ethics Ordinance establishes reporting requirements
for individuals and entities lobbying the Cook County Board and Cook County
Agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Ethics Ordinance shall be amended to require
additional reporting requirements including lobbyist expenditures and lobbyist
activities, the creation of an online database as a repository for such reports and
allowing for public search of said database; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Ethics Ordinance shall be amended to prohibit
former Cook County officials and employees from lobbying the County for a period
of one year from the time the official or employee leaves employment with the
County; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Ethics Ordinance shall be amended to increase the
penalties for late filing to fall in line with the current State of Illinois penalties for
late filing; and
WHEREAS, all Request for Proposal (RFP) submissions related to Cook County
contracts must include the name of any individual lobbyist as well as the lobbying
firm used in developing the RFP; and
WHEREAS, all Cook County Board Meeting agendas and contract
recommendations shall include the identity of any individual lobbyist and/or
lobbying firm retained by the proposer of the contract.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 9
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Sections 2-580, 2-622 and 2-633 through 2-634 of the Cook
County Code are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-580.

Post employment restrictions.

(a)
No former official or employee shall assist or represent any person
other than the County in any judicial or administrative proceeding involving the
County if the official or employee was counsel of record or participated personally
and substantially in the proceeding during his or her term of office or employment.
(b)
No former official or employee shall assist or represent any person
in any business transaction involving the County, if the official or employee
participated personally and substantially in that transaction during his or her term
of office or employment.
(c)
No former official or employee may, for a period of one year after
the termination of his or her term of office or employment, knowingly accept
employment or receive compensation or fees for services from an employer if the
employee or official, during the year immediately preceding termination of County
employment and on behalf of the County, participated personally and substantially
in the decision to award County contracts with a cumulative value of over
$25,000.00 to the person or entity, or its parent or subsidiary.
(d)
The requirements of this section may be waived by the Board of
Ethics if the Board of Ethics finds in writing that the County's negotiations and
decisions regarding the procurement of the contract or contracts were not
materially affected by any potential for employment of that official or employee by
the employer No former official or employee may, for a period of one year after the
termination of his or her term of office or employment, knowingly and for
compensation lobby any County official or employee on behalf of any other entity.
(e)
This section applies only to persons who terminate an affected
position on or after the effective date of this article The requirements of this section
may be waived by the Board of Ethics if the Board of Ethics finds in writing that the
County's negotiations and decisions regarding the procurement of the contract or
contracts were not materially affected by any potential for employment of that
official or employee by the employer.
(f)
This section applies only to persons who terminate an affected
position on or after the effective date of this article.
Sec. 2-622.

Definitions.

Person means any individual, entity, corporation, partnership, firm,
association, union, trust, estate, as well as any parent or subsidiary of any of the
foregoing, and whether or not operated for profit.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 10
Sec. 2-633.

Information required of registrants.

(a) Within 30 days of engaging in any activity, which requires such
person to register, and subsequently between January 1 and January 20 of each
year, every person required to register under Section 2-631 shall file in the office of
the Clerk a written statement, subscribed under oath before a notary public,
containing the following information:
(1)

The registrant's name, permanent address and temporary address
(if any) while lobbying.

(2)

The registrant’s business affiliation and business address, or, if
none, the statement that the registrant is a sole proprietor.

(3)

With respect to each person on behalf of which the registrant acts
as a lobbyist:
a.

The name, business address, permanent address and
nature of the business of the person;

b.

Whether the relationship is expected
compensation or expenditures or both; and

c.

A brief description of the County matter in reference to
which such service is to be rendered.

to

involve

(4)

The name, business address, and permanent address of each
person employed by the registrant to perform such lobbying
services or who appears on behalf of the registrant.

(5)

A picture of the registrant.

(6)

Registrants shall pay an annual, nonrefundable, nontransferable
filing fee as set out in Section 32-1, per entity and a separate fee
per exclusive lobbyist, payable to the Clerk upon filing.

(b) The separate fee, per exclusive lobbyist, as set forth in Subsection
(a)(6) of this section, shall be waived for employees of nonprofit organizations that
are exempt from income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, provided such organizations lobby only with their own employees
and the employees who lobby work a minimum of 1,000 hours per year for the
organization.
(c) In the event any substantial change or addition occurs with respect
to the information required by this division to be contained in the registration
statement, including the addition or subtraction of a client, an amendment to the
statement shall be filed with the Clerk within 14 days.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 11
(d) In addition to other penalties provided in this division, any person
filing a late registration under this section shall be assessed a late filing fee as set
out in Section 32-1 per day the registration is late, payable to the Clerk upon filing.
Any person filing a late registration after January 31 shall also be subject to a
penalty of $100.00 per day, to be levied as set forth in Section 2-637 All reports
filed pursuant to this section and section 2-634 shall be filed electronically and
under oath, according to rules and regulations to be established by the Clerk, as of
the date such rules and regulations are promulgated. Reports filed electronically
shall be timely if filed by 11:59 p.m. on the established due date. The Clerk shall,
as soon as practicable, post the filed reports on the Clerk’s website.
(e) In addition to other penalties provided in this division, any person
filing a late registration under this section shall be assessed a late filing fee as set
out in Section 32-1 per day the registration is late, payable to the Clerk upon filing.
Any person filing a late registration after January 31 shall also be subject to a
penalty of $150.00 per day, to be levied as set forth in Section 2-637.
(f)
Within 48 hours of being retained, hired or employed by any person
to lobby on that person’s behalf, a registrant shall amend the report filed pursuant
to this section to include the information required under (a)(3) of this section, as to
the person newly retaining the registrant.
Sec. 2-634.

Reports.

(a)
Every person so registering shall, so long as the person's activity
continues, file with the Clerk between January 1 and January 20 and between July
1 and July 20 a two reports under oath of all expenditures made by the person to
or for the benefit of a County official or County employee, notwithstanding whether
lobbying was occurring at the time of the expenditure, during the previous six
calendar months. The report shall show in detail the County official or County
employee to whom or for whose benefit such expenditures were made.
Expenditures made by the registrant shall include expenditures made by the
registrant's employer and/or contractor for whom the registrant is performing
lobbying services unless the employer or contractor independently registers and
reports pursuant to Section 2-631(3). If the registrant lobbies for more than one
person, they shall identify which expenditures were made on behalf of each such
person. Any expenditure over $100.00 shall disclose not only the amount of the
expenditure and to whom or for whose benefit such expenditure was made, but
also disclose the date of the expenditure, the use and purpose for which the
expenditure was made, and the County matter in connection with which the
expenditure was made. If the registrant made no such expenditures during the
reporting periods herein described, the registrant shall file and State herein that
the registrant had no such expenditures a lobbying expenditure report and a
lobbying activity report:
(1)

The lobbying expenditure report shall state all expenses made by
the person to or for the benefit of a County official or County
employee, notwithstanding whether lobbying was occurring at the
time of the expenditure, during the previous six months. The

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 12
report shall show in detail the County official or County employee
to whom or for whose benefit such expenditures were made.
Expenditures made by the registrant shall include expenditures
made by the registrant’s employer and/or contractor for whom the
registrant is performing lobbying services unless the employer or
contractor independently registers and reports pursuant to Section
2-631(3). If the registrant lobbies for more than one person, they
shall identify which expenditures were made on behalf of each
such person. Any expenditure over $100.00 shall disclose not
only the amount of the expenditure and to whom or for whose
benefit such expenditure was made, but also disclose the date of
the expenditure, the use and purpose for which the expenditure
was made, and the County matter in connection with which the
expenditure was made.
If the registrant made no such
expenditures during the reporting periods herein described, the
registrant shall file and state herein that the registrant had no such
expenditures.
(2)

The Lobbying activity report shall include all lobbying contacts
made with County officials or County employees. For each such
contact, the report shall list the date of the contact, the County
official or County employee with whom the lobbying contact was
made, the entity on whose behalf the lobbying contact was made,
the subject matter of the of the lobbying contact, including any
County contract, involved in the contact. If the lobbyist has a
relationship be birth or marriage with the County official or
employee lobbied, such relationship shall be stated. If the
registrant made no such lobbying contacts during the reporting
periods herein described, the registrant shall file and state herein
that the registrant had no such contacts.

(b)
Individual expenditures which aggregate $100.00 or less otherwise
required to be reported hereunder under (a)(1) of this Section may be reported in
aggregate amounts without detail, provided that any gift solicited by a County
official or County employee must be reported in detail as set forth above,
additionally listing the recipient of such gift.
(c)
Such rReports required under (a)(1) of this Section shall include
for each client the following aggregate expenses attributable to lobbying activities,
to be identified as such: advertising and publications; lodging and travel that are
not reported by another registrant; educational or advocacy expenses; honoraria;
meals, beverages, and entertainment expenses; political contributions; and gifts.
(d)
With respect to each client of the registrant, the registrant shall
report the following in the lobbying expenditure report:
(1)

The name, business and permanent address and nature of
business of the client and any other business entities on whose
behalf lobbying was performed for the same compensation.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 13

(2)

A statement of the amount of compensation.

(3)

The name of each person lobbied and a brief description of the
County matter involved.

(e)
A registrant who terminates employment or duties which required
registration under this division shall give the Clerk, within 30 days after the date of
such termination, written notice of such termination and shall include therewith a
report of the lobbying expenditures described herein, covering the period of time
since the filing of the registrant's last report to the date of termination of
employment, and a report of the lobbying activity described herein, covering the
period of time since the filing of the registrant’s last report to the date of
termination of employment. Such notices and reports shall be final and relieve
such registrant of further reporting under this division unless and until the person
later take employment or assumes duties that require to again register under this
division.
(f)
Failure without just cause to file any such report within the time
designated herein or the knowing reporting of false or incomplete information shall
constitute a violation of this division. In addition to other penalties provided in this
division, any person filing a late report under this section shall be assessed a late
filing fee as set out in Section 32-1 per day the report is late, payable to the Clerk
upon filing. Any person filing a late report after January 31 (for reports due by
January 20) or after July 31 (for reports due by July 20) shall also be subject to a
penalty of $100.00 $150.00 per day, to be levied as set forth in Section 2-637.
Any registrant who is required to file a report hereunder may effect one 30-day
extension of time for filing the report by filing with the Clerk, not less than ten days
before the date on which the statement is due, a declaration of intention to defer
the filing of the report. The filing of such declaration shall suspend application of
the penalty provisions contained herein for the duration of the extension. Failure
to file by the extended date shall constitute a violation of this division and shall
subject the registrant to the penalty described herein.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 32-1.

Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be
as shown below:

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 14

Code Section

Description

Fees, Rates, Charges
(in dollars)

CHAPTER 2, ADMINISTRATION
2-633 (c)
2-634 (f)

Lobbyist registration, late filing fee, per day
Late filing of report, per day

10.00 50.00
10.00 50.00

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 34 Finance, Section 34-152 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 34-152. Contracts not adaptable to competitive bidding; requests for
proposals or qualifications.
(a)
Contracts which by their nature are not adapted to award by
competitive bidding, such as contracts for the services of individuals possessing a
high degree of professional skill where the ability or fitness of the individual plays
an important part; contracts for printing of Finance Committee pamphlets,
controllers estimates, and departmental reports; contracts for the printing or
engraving of bonds, tax warrants and other evidence of indebtedness; contracts
for ballot cards, printing of election ballots and poll sheets, and moving of election
equipment and supplies; contracts for utility services such as water, light, heat,
telephone, or telegraph; and contracts for the purchase of magazines, books,
periodicals, and similar articles of an educational or instructional nature, and the
binding of such magazines, books, periodicals, pamphlets, reports, and similar
articles shall not be subject to the competitive bidding requirements of Section 34151.
(1)

Criteria for use of requests for proposals or requests for
qualifications.
Proposals for contracts not adaptable to
competitive bidding shall be solicited through the issuance of
requests for proposals ("RFP") or requests for qualifications
("RFQ") unless otherwise authorized by the Board. RFPs and
RFQs are appropriate when competitive bidding is not practicable
or advantageous to the County. RFPs and/or RFQs may result in
the negotiation of a contract with one or more proposers selected
as the result of an evaluation process which includes the
simultaneous consideration of multiple evaluation factors.

(2)

Notification. In order to issue an RFP or RFQ, the Using
Department or Elected Official must notify the Purchasing Agent in
writing that it intends to issue a RFP or RFQ.

(3)

Prescribed content of RFPs and RFQs. All RFPs and/or RFQs
shall include such forms and provisions as shall be issued from
time to time by the Office of the Purchasing Agent. These forms
shall include, but not be limited to: Instructions to Proposers;
General Conditions; Cook County Certification and Execution

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 15
Forms and a Proposer Registration Form which shall include the
name and firm of any lobbyist retained for the RFP; and all
additional documents as required by the Purchasing Agent. The
Using Department or Elected Official shall be responsible for
developing appropriate special conditions, a proposer
questionnaire and a cost proposal form.
(4)

Review prior to issuance. RFPs and/or RFQs shall be submitted
to the Office of the Purchasing Agent for review prior to their
issuance. In addition to the direct transmittal of the RFP or RFQ
to potential firms or individuals, all RFPs and RFQs shall be
posted on the County's website. Such posting shall be performed
by the Bureau of Information Technology and Automation upon
the request of the Office of the Purchasing Agent.

(5)

Opening of RFPs and RFQs. The RFPs or RFQs shall be opened
in the presence of one or more witnesses after the designated
date for submission. A list of firms or individuals offering
proposals or responding to RFQs shall be submitted to the
Purchasing Agent within 24 hours of RFP or RFQ opening. The
contents of the RFP or RFQ shall not be disclosed to competing
offerors during the process of negotiation. Any proposer that
cancels, withdraws or modifies its proposal after the proposal due
date without County approval may result in the proposer being
deemed unqualified and may prohibit said proposer from receiving
a County contract for a period of one year. A record of proposals
shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection after
contract award.

(6)

Evaluation. The Using Department or Elected Official shall identify
the factors to be used in evaluating proposals, which information
shall be set forth in the RFP. These factors include, but are not
limited to, price, experience and qualifications of the proposer, the
quality and cost effectiveness of the proposal, and the
demonstrated willingness and ability of the proposer to satisfy the
requirements of the County as described in the request. The
Using Department or Elected Official shall evaluate proposals and
shall conduct any negotiations of a possible contract with one or
more proposers.

(7)

Discussions. As provided in the RFP or RFQ, discussions may be
conducted with responsible proposers who submit proposals
determined to have the greatest likelihood of being selected for a
contract for the purpose of clarifying and assuring full
understanding of and responsiveness to the County's
requirements. Those proposers shall be accorded fair and equal
treatment with respect to any opportunity for discussion and
revision of proposals. Revisions to proposals may be permitted
after submission for the purpose of obtaining best and final

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 16
proposals before a recommendation is made to the Board of
Commissioners. In conducting discussions there shall be no
disclosure of any confidential information derived from proposals
submitted by competing proposers. If information is disclosed to
any proposer, it shall be provided to all competing proposers.
Once a proposer has been recommended to and approved by the
Board of Commissioners, the Using Department or Elected Official
shall finalize the contract terms for the Board's execution
consideration.
(8)

Recommendations. The Using Department or Elected Official
shall recommend to the Board of Commissioners that the County
enter into a contract with the responsible proposer whose
proposal or qualifications is determined in writing by such Using
Department or Elected Official to be the most advantageous to the
County, taking into consideration price, qualifications and the
evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. The
Using Department or Elected Official shall document the results of
its evaluation and the reasons for its recommendation to the
Purchasing Agent. The Using Department or Elected Official shall
be responsible for requesting that the Board of Commissioners
authorize a contract with the recommended proposer, provided
that no Using Department or Elected Official shall make such a
recommendation without stipulating the known services of a
registered lobbyist, including but not limited to any lobbyist listed
in the RFP. The recommendation shall include the name of the
individual lobbyist and the name of the lobbying firm. The
authorization of the Board of Commissioners to enter into a
contract shall not result in a contract unless and until the Board
has authorized the execution of the final contract documents upon
the request of the Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agent's
request to the Board for contract execution shall be subject to the
proposed contractor's compliance with all applicable laws and
County procedures and to the Purchasing Agent's review of the
subject contract.

(b)
The Purchasing Agent is expressly authorized to procure from any
Federal, State or local government unit or agency thereof such surplus materials,
supplies, commodities, or equipment as may be made available through the
operation of any legislation heretofore or hereinafter enacted and to enter into
cooperative educational agreements with not-for-profit universities and hospitals
without conforming to the competitive bidding requirements of this article. Regular
employment contracts in the County service, whether with respect to the classified
services or otherwise, shall not be subject to the provisions of this article, nor shall
this article be applicable to the granting or issuance pursuant to powers conferred
by laws, ordinances, or resolutions or license, permits, or other authorization by
the County Board, or by departments, offices, institutions, boards, commissions,
agencies or other instrumentalities of the County, nor to contracts or transactions,
other than the sale or lease of personal property pursuant to which the County is
the recipient of money.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 17

(c)
This section shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage and is specifically intended to supersede 55 ILCS 5/5-36001 (Cook
County purchasing-contracts for supplies, materials and work), 55 ILCS 5/5-36004
(Cook County purchasing-definitions) and 55 ILCS 5/5-36006 (Cook County
purchasing-competitive bids, government surplus materials).
Effective date: These Amended Ordinances shall be in effect upon adoption.
* Referred to the Committee on Finance on 09/16/09.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved that the Ordinance
be approved and adopted.
Chairman Daley informed the members that three (3) Amendments have been distributed, and
called on Commissioner Gainer to present the amendments.

AMENDMENT #1 TO COMMUNICATION #302613
Sponsored by John P. Daley, County Commissioner
Amends Section 2-633(d) and (f), to require specific timeframe on posting of Reports:
(d) In addition to other penalties provided in this division, any person filing a late
registration under this section shall be assessed a late filing fee as set out in Section 32-1 per
day the registration is late, payable to the Clerk upon filing. Any person filing a late registration
after January 31 shall also be subject to a penalty of $100.00 per day, to be levied as set forth in
Section 2-637 All reports filed pursuant to this section and section 2-634 shall be filed
electronically and under oath, according to rules and regulations to be established by the Clerk,
as of the date such rules and regulations are promulgated. Reports filed electronically shall be
timely if filed by 11:59 p.m. on the established due date. The Clerk shall, as soon as
practicable, post the filed reports on the Clerk’s website within three (3) business days from
the established due date.
(f)
Within 48 hours of being retained, hired or employed by any person to lobby on
that person’s behalf, a registrant shall amend the report filed pursuant to this section to include
the information required under (a)(3) of this section, as to the person newly retaining the
registrant. The Clerk shall post the filed amended reports on the Clerk’s website within
three (3) business days from the established due date.
**********
Amends Section 2-634(e), to require posting on the Clerk’s website to conform with all
other reports requested by the Clerk and posted to the Clerk’s website:
(e) A registrant who terminates employment or duties which required registration
under this division shall give the Clerk, within 30 days after the date of such termination, written
notice of such termination and shall include therewith a report of the lobbying expenditures

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 18
described herein, covering the period of time since the filing of the registrant's last report to the
date of termination of employment, and a report of the lobbying activity described herein,
covering the period of time since the filing of the registrant’s last report to the date of termination
of employment. The Clerk shall post the filed reports on the Clerk’s website within three
(3) business days from the established due date. Such notices and reports shall be final and
relieve such registrant of further reporting under this division unless and until the person later
takes employment or assumes duties that require to again register under this division.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved the approval of
Amendment #1. The motion carried unanimously.

AMENDMENT #2 TO COMMUNICATION #302613
Sponsored by John P. Daley, County Commissioner
Amends Section 2-634(a)(2), Reports, to correct typographical errors as presented by the
County Clerk:
(2)

The Lobbying activity report shall include all lobbying contacts made with
County officials or County employees. For each such contact, the report shall
list the date of the contact, the County official or County employee with whom
the lobbying contact was made, the entity on whose behalf the lobbying contact
was made, the subject matter of the of the lobbying contact, including any
County contract, involved in the contact. If the lobbyist has a relationship be by
birth or marriage with the County official or employee lobbied, such relationship
shall be stated. If the registrant made no such lobbying contacts during the
reporting periods herein described, the registrant shall file and state herein that
the registrant had no such contacts.
**********

Amends Section 34-152(a)(4), to correct the current name of the Bureau:
(4)

Review prior to issuance. RFPs and/or RFQs shall be submitted to the Office of
the Purchasing Agent for review prior to their issuance. In addition to the direct
transmittal of the RFP or RFQ to potential firms or individuals, all RFPs and
RFQs shall be posted on the County's website. Such posting shall be
performed by the Bureau of Information Technology and Automation upon
the request of the Office of the Purchasing Agent.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved the approval of
Amendment #2. The motion carried unanimously.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 19
AMENDMENT #3 TO COMMUNICATION #302613
Sponsored by John P. Daley, County Commissioner
Amends Section 2-580(e), by inserting “shall not” instead of “may” in sub-point (e):
(e)
This section applies only to persons who terminate an affected position on or
after the effective date of this article The requirements of this section may shall not be waived
by the Board of Ethics if the Board of Ethics finds in writing that the County's negotiations
and decisions regarding the procurement of the contract or contracts were not materially
affected by any potential for employment of that official or employee by the employer.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Moreno, moved the approval of
Amendment #3. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Peraica asked the County Clerk, David Orr, if the Lobbyist Ordinance
Amendments apply to attorneys who are not also lobbyists. Clerk Orr responded in the
negative.
Commissioner Peraica further inquired of the Clerk if his office will accept facsimile signatures,
in light of the requirement to file the reports electronically. Clerk Orr responded in the
affirmative.
Clerk Orr notified the members of the Finance Committee that the automated registration and
reporting system will not be ready until the summer of 2010.
Commissioner Collins posed a scenario whereby she was a lobbyist for the State, and the
matter involved an issue for the Cook County Clerk Elections. Within this ordinance, would
Commissioner Collins be able to lobby County Clerk Orr, even though she is registered with the
State? Clerk Orr responded that in that circumstance, attempts to lobby his office would be
inappropriate. Clerk Orr clarified that in that scenario, lobbying directed at officials other than
Cook County officials would be permitted.
A vote was taken on the motion to approve the Ordinance Amendments (Comm. No.
302613), as amended. The motion carried unanimously.
Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

 FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
OCTOBER 1, 2009
PAGE 20
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 302410
Communication Number 302411
Communication Number 302613

Deferred to October 20, 2009
Approved
Approved as amended

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance

____________________________
John P. Daley, Chairman
Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 