Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Minutes of the Finance Committee
10:30 AM
Tuesday, November 14, 2017

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Goslin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)
1. Mr. George Blakemore
17-0428
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/24/2017
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to approve
17-0428. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0421
RECOMMENDATION OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE (WORKERS’
COMPENSATION)
Finance Subcommittee Meeting on Workers’ Compensation -11/14/2017
Page 1 of 11

 The Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation met on the above listed date and recommends
the following for approval:
Workers’ Compensation Claims approved Fiscal Year 2017 to present: $353,404.53
Workers’ Compensation Claims to Be Approved:
$7,913.33
A motion was made by Commissioner Schneider, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to
recommend for approval 17-0421. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0399
RECOMMENDATION OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE (LITIGATION)
Finance Subcommittee Meeting on Litigation -10/24/2017
The Finance Subcommittee on Litigation met on the above listed date and recommends the following
for approval:
Proposed Settlements Approved Fiscal Year 2017 to Present: $1,920,316.39
Proposed Settlements to Be Approved:
$60,346.50
Legal Fees Approved Fiscal Year 2017 to Present:
Legal Fees for 10/24/2017 to Be Approved:

$807,167.25
$43,123.18

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to
recommend for approval 17-0399. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0398
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT
Department(s): Planning & Development
Action: Disbursement Approval
Page 2 of 11

 Payee: Meru Corporation, Niles, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Fiscal Impact: $381,600.00
Accounts: Recreation Landscape Improvement Account 51056-560060
Contract Number(s): 17-80-16
District(s): 9 & 17
Summary: New water service for South Police Headquarters and Schiller Woods flush toilet
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to recommend
for approval 17-0398. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)

17-0408
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT
Department(s): Planning & Development
Action: Disbursement Approval
Payee: Matthew Paving, Inc., Oak Lawn, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Fiscal Impact: $226,519.57
Accounts: Site Amenities Account; 51057.560060
Contract Number(s): 17-80-01
District(s): 5, 6 and 16
Summary: National Grove South, Thorn Creek Police Headquarters, Thorn Creek Division
Headquarters, Sweet Woods and Calumet Woods Pavement and Sewer Repairs
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to recommend
Page 3 of 11

 for approval 17-0408. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0353
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED BID RECOMMENDATION
Department: Resource Management
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Preserves”) to enter into a
contract with Encap, Inc., DeKalb, Illinois
Reason: Contract #17-31-122 consists of 11.65 acres of tree and brush removal in accordance with the
Preserves’ specifications in Region 7, Sag Valley Division. Encap, Inc. was the lowest responsible
bidder
of the eight (8) bidders.
Bid Opening Date: 9/29/2017
Bid Results:
1. Atrium, Inc., $16,274.90
2. Encap, Inc., $40,134.25
3. Semper Fi Yard Services, $42,406.00
4. Tallgrass Restoration, $48,347.50
5. Applied Ecological Services, $54,890.96
6. KGI Landscaping, $59,415.00
7. Groundskeeper Landscaping, $111,840.00
8. Homer Tree Service, $139,800.00
**Deficiencies were noted with respect to Atrium, Inc.’s qualifications which prohibited it from being
deemed the lowest responsible bidder.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $40,134.25
Contract Period: Date of execution - 12/31/19, with a twelve (12) month extension option to account
for potential suboptimal weather or ground conditions
Account Name/Number: EAB Tree Removal 51009.521456, Vegetation Management 51009.521455,
Habitat Enhancement 51009.521452, Habitat Restoration 51009.521444, Mitigation Accounts:
51010.29982 and 51010.22522
District: 17
Page 4 of 11

 Concurrence(s):
The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Officer have approved this item.
The Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance Provisions.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to recommend for
approval 17-0353. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0076
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Corporate Fund Analysis of Revenue and Expense
Report Period: 1/1/2017 - 9/30/2017
Summary: Detailed Fund Analysis Revenue and Expense report for September 2017.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to recommend for
approval 17-0076. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0338
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
1-8-1(B): RECEIPTS OF MONEY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 1(B) - Receipts of Money of the Forest
Preserve District Cook of County Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
Page 5 of 11

 Sec. 1-8-1: RECEIPTS OF MONEY.
A. The heads of departments shall transmit all moneys of the Forest Preserve District received by them
to the Comptroller and take his receipt therefor.
B. Payment Via Credit Card. With respect to any fine, fee, charge, or cost imposed by, owing to, or
collected by or on behalf of the District, the District is authorized to accept electronic payment by
credit card.
The District may impose a convenience fee or surcharge upon such payments to the extent
allowable
under the applicable credit card service agreement. Such convenience fee shall not exceed the
actual
cost to the District for such transactions. Alternatively, the District may enter into agreements, with
one or more financial institutions, Internet companies, or other business entities to act as third party
payment agents for the payment of fees. These agreements may authorize the third party payment
agent to retain a service fee out of the payments collected, or to impose an additional convenience
fee. Any credit card service provider, financial institution, Internet company, or other business
entity
to be selected by the District in connection with credit card payments to the District shall be
procured
in accordance with the District’s Code of Ordinances. If a convenience fee is charged, such fee
must
be clearly posted.
Receipt by the District of the amount of the fee or other charge paid by credit card or through a
third party payment agent authorized by the District, less the amount of any service fee retained
under the District's agreement with the credit service provider or third party payment agent, shall
be deemed receipt of the full amount of the fee or other charge and shall discharge the payment
obligation in full.
For purposes of this section, “credit card” shall mean an instrument or device, whether known as a
credit card, bank card, charge card, debit card, automated teller machine card, secured credit card,
smart card, electronic purse, prepaid card, affinity card, or by any other name, issued with or
without fee by an issuer for the use of the holder to obtain credit, money, goods, services, or
anything else of value.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to recommend
for approval 17-0338. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)

Page 6 of 11

 17-0234
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 8 Section 2: Contracts and Purchases
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 2 - Contracts and Purchases of the Forest
Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 1-8-2. Contracts and Purchases.
***
I. Powers and duties of Purchasing Agent: The District Purchasing Agent shall, pursuant to the
terms, exceptions, or restrictions established by this Code and the President and Board of
Commissioners:
1. Purchase or contract for all supplies, materials and equipment, and contractual services required
by any Office, department, institution or agency of the District subject to the provisions,
restrictions and limitations of this Subsection;
2. Establish and enforce standard and non-standard specifications established in accordance with
this Subsection which shall apply to all supplies, materials and equipment purchased for the use
of any Office, department, institution or agency of the District;
3. Transfer to or between, and/or assign to the various offices, departments, institutions or
agencies of the District and the Forest Preserves Foundation (as an approved Donee), or otherwise
trade in and/or sell supplies, materials and equipment that are surplus, obsolete, abandoned, or
unusable, except for such property which has been approved for donation as a charitable
contribution per Section 1-8-2(O) below;
4. Have charge of such other purchasing activities as the Board of Commissioners may assign
from time to time;
5. Distribute or cause to be distributed to the various Offices, departments, institutions or agencies
of the District all supplies, materials and equipment purchased by the Office of the Purchasing
Agent;
6. Require all vendors to submit a notarized certification or affidavit of their compliance with all
requirements imposed by this Subsection on forms promulgated by the Purchasing Agent, which
shall include, but shall not be limited to: an affirmation that the vendor is a registered business in
good standing with the State of Illinois and, in the case of a contractor operating under an
assumed name, with the County Clerk, and an affirmation with respect to Section 1-8-2(U) of
Page 7 of 11

 this Ordinance (Child Support), Section 1-8-2(D) of this Ordinance (Taxes and Fees) and that
said vendor is in compliance with the District's Ethics Act including the provisions regarding
receiving and soliciting gifts and favors as well as the limitations of contributions to candidates
and elected officials and an economic disclosure statement disclosing all persons or entities who
have made lobbying contacts on behalf of the vendor with respect to the contract.
Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, no supplies, materials or equipment or contractual
services shall be purchased or contracted for by any Elected Official, department, institution or agency
of the District, or by any officer or employee thereof, but all such supplies, materials, equipment or
contractual services shall be purchased or contracted for by such Purchasing Agent in accordance with
this Subsection.
***
O

Purchase Procedure:

***
6. Distribution of assets:
a.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the District Board reserves the right to
designate certain unusable, surplus and/or obsolete personal property, equipment or other
property The Purchasing Agent, in conjunction with the applicable District department(s), is
authorized to approve or deny the distribution of supplies, materials and equipment that have
been declared unusable, surplus, abandoned, and/or obsolete per Section 1-8-2(I) above
(hereinafter referred to collectively as "assets" for distribution for purposes of this
Subsection 6) as charitable donations. Assets may be designated for distribution as
charitable donations as specifically authorized by State of Illinois statute(s), or if:
(1)
A determination has been made that the assets are not needed by any department or
division of the District;
(2)
The assets are of a type that would provide a beneficial service in either the medical,
or education fields to a another entity education, public safety, social services,
environmental, and/or conservation fields; and
(3)
The recipient of the assets is a legitimate nonprofit organization, or a local or foreign
governmental entity.
b.

The assets shall be transferred by an appropriate instrument of transfer, which shall include:

(1)
A provision that requires the recipient to use the property in a manner that primarily
promotes the implementation or improvement of educational services available to the
public via the medical, education, public safety, social services, environmental, and/or
conservation fields; and
(2)
A provision that indicates that ownership of the assets automatically reverts to the
District if the entity at any time fails to use the property in that manner.
The responsibility for determining the recipient of the donation, pursuant to the above
Page 8 of 11

 guidelines shall reside in the Office of the President of the District Board, with approval by
the District Board.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Daley, to recommend for
approval 17-0234. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
17-0315
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TITLE 4 - MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC, CHAPTER 2 - PARKING REGULATIONS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Title
4 - Motor Vehicles and Traffic, Chapter 2 - Parking Regulations, is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 4-2-1: General Parking.
***
Any person found in violation of any provision of this Section will be fined fifty dollars ($50.00)
thirty-five dollars ($35.00). A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
four-hour
period in which the owner of the vehicle continues or permits any such violation to continue, or fails to
make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-2: Stopping, Standing and Parking, Prohibited in Various Locations.
***
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of the above section shall be
fined
fifty dollars ($50.00) thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall
be
regarded as committed each four-hour period in which the owner of the vehicle continues or permits
any
Page 9 of 11

 such violation to continue, or fails to make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-3: Violation of Posted Signs; Penalty.
***
B. Any person that stops, stands or parks a vehicle contrary to what is indicated on a sign erected in
accordance with Subsection A. shall be punished by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) thirty-five dollars
($35.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day,
during which the owner of the vehicle continues or permits any such violation to continue, or fails to
make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-5: General Parking Restrictions.
***
D. Penalty: Any person who violates Subsection A., B. or C. shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00)
thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as
committed each four-hour period in which the owner of the vehicle continues or permits any such
violation to continue, or fails to make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-7: Loading Zones.
***
B. Use Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or park said vehicle
in any place marked as a passenger or loading zone, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading
of passengers, or for the unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials, and in no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30) minutes. Any person in violation of
this Subsection shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) thirty-five dollars ($35.00). A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as committed each four-hour period in which the owner of the vehicle
continues or permits any such violation to continue, or fails to make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-10: Unattended Motor Vehicles.
***
C. Any person who violates Subsection A. shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) thirty-five dollars
($35.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
four-hour period in which the owner of the vehicle continues or permits any such violation to continue,
or fails to make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-11: Parking Meters or Other Devices.
***
B. These provisions shall not apply during such hours of the day as designated from time to time by
Page 10 of 11

 order of the General Superintendent. Any person who violates any part of Subsection A. shall be fined
fifty dollars ($50.00) thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall
be regarded as committed each four-hour period in which the owner of the vehicle continues or permits
any such violation to continue, or fails to make a reasonable effort to comply.
Sec. 4-2-12: Removal of Parking Permit Notice of Violation.
***
B. Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be fined not less than two
hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) two hundred dollars ($200.00).
Effective date: This ordinance amendment shall be in effect ten (10) days after publication.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Deer, seconded by Commissioner Daley, to recommend for
approval 17-0315. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner PETER N. SILVESTRI, seconded by Commissioner
DEBORAH SIMS to adjourn. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Goslin, Deer, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (11)
Absent: Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moody and Tobolski (6)
Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 11 of 11

 