Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Tuesday, December 6, 2011

10:00 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 10:00
a.m.

Recess and Reconvene as Board of Commissioners
Due to lack of quorum, the Annual Meeting was recessed and reconvened on
Thursday, December 8, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. in the Board Room, 100 East Erie,
Chicago, Illinois.

Roll Call
Present:

9 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; and Terrence J. O'Brien

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

11-1402

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
Of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday,
December 6, 2011 at 10:00 AM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Patricia Horton, seconded by Kathleen Therese Meany,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Annual Meeting

2

11-1507

Meeting Minutes

December 6, 2011

President's Annual Message 2011
Attachments:

President's Annual Message

A motion was made by Kathleen Therese Meany, seconded by Frank Avila, that
this Report be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

Open Discussion
None

Adjournment
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Patricia Horton, that this
Annual Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this
December 8, 2011, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 8, 2011

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 