REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
November 3, 2004
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Gorman, Hansen,
Maldonado, Murphy and Quigley (7)

Absent:

None (0)

Also
Present:

Thomas V. Lyons II, Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, State’s Attorney’s Office.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Business and Economic Development of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Wednesday, November 3, 2004 at the hour of 9:30
AM in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

267330

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated August 9, 2004:
Re:

Broadway Property Group, LLC
Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the company application for Class 6b
property tax incentive for your consideration.
The applicant requests approval of the special exception to the 24 month abandonment
rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company
can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting the company application for Class 6b, the Resolution of the Village of Forest
Park, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for an industrial facility; and

 WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Broadway Property Group, LLC and the Resolution from Forest
Park for a vacant industrial facility located at 7750 Industrial Drive, Forest Park, Cook
County, Illinois, Property Index Number 15-24-301-018-0000; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened
period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been
abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 22 months at the time of application and that special circumstances
are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to Broadway Property Group, LLC for
an abandoned industrial facility located at located at 7750 Industrial Drive, Forest Park,
Cook County, Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee 09/08/04
**Approved by poll on 9/23/04
***Referred back to Business & Economic Development Committee 10/05/04
Chairman Collins called upon the public speakers.
PUBLIC SPEAKERS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Marcella Wozniak
Randolph Tinder
Theresa A. Steinbach
Steven Backman
Patrick Doolen
David A. Novak
Anthony Calderone

Superintendent of Schools, Forest Park District 91
Commissioner, Village of Forest Park
Commissioner, Village of Forest Park
Director, Park District of Forest Park
Mayor, Village of Forest Park

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved Approval of
Communication No. , 267330. The motion carried.
267642

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by GWENDOLYN D.
CLEMONS, Director, transmitting a Communication, dated September 10, 2004:
Re:

U-Stor-It (Blue Island) LLC
Resolution Approving Class 8 Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the company’s application for Class 8
property tax incentive for your consideration.

 U-Stor-It requests approval of the special exception to the 24 month abandonment rule
under the Class 8 Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the company can
complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting the company application for Class 8, the Resolution of the City of Blue Island,
and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 8 which provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for a commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from U-Stor-It (Blue Island) LLC, and the Resolution from Blue Island for an
abandoned commercial facility located at 2341 West 135th Street, Blue Island, Cook
County, Illinois, Property Index Numbers 28-01-202-002-0000 and 29-06-103-0010000; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period
of qualifying abandonment in cases where the commercial facility has been abandoned
for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned at the time of purchase, and that special circumstances are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 8 abatement incentive to the company for an abandoned
commercial facility located at 2341 West 135th Street, Blue Island, Cook County, Illinois,
under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee 10/05/04
Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved Approval of
Communication No. 267642. The motion carried.
267843

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated September 27, 2004:
Re:

Mor Fab, LLC
Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the Company’s application for Class
6b property tax incentive for your consideration.

 Mor Fab, LLC requests approval of the special exception to the 24 month abandonment
rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that Mor Fab, LLC
can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting the Mor Fab, LLC application for Class 6b, the Resolution of
the Village of Bridgeview, Illinois and a Department of Planning and Development staff
report for your information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for an industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Mor Fab, LLC and the Ordinance from the Village of Bridgeview for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 8301 South 77th Avenue, Bridgeview, Cook
County, Illinois, Property Index Number 18-36-306-011; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened
period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been
abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 9 months at the time of application, and that special circumstances
are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicated their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to Mor Fab, LLC for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 8301 South 77th Avenue, Village of Bridgeview, Cook
County, Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business and Economic Development Committee 10/19/04

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved Approval of
Communication No. 267843. The motion carried.
Commissioner Maldonado moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Murphy. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Business and Economic
Development

 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Earlean Collins, Chairman

Attest:

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Michelle Harris, Secretary

*Please note that a detailed audio tape of the above meeting is available.

 