June 14th, 2017 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.
Noticed for 2:00 PM; Commenced at 2:11 PM.
AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com, “About CTA”,
“Reports and Notices”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas”, “6/14/2017”,”Regular Board Meeting Agenda”.
ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro Silva,
Kevin Irvine, Andre Youngblood, Johnny Miller.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
MINUTES: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recommend approval of the Board Minutes of May
10th, 2017. After being moved for approval and seconded, the motion passed with six yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recess into executive session, based
upon Illinois Open Meetings Act Sections 2 C-2 and 5. After being moved and seconded, the motion was
approved with six yes votes.
After returning to Open Session, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve Agenda Item 4-A, the
property acquisition ordinance for property located at 2 East 95th Street, Chicago, Illinois, for the 95th
Street/Dan Ryan Terminal Improvement Project and for payment of relocation expenses in the amount
of $126,775.00. After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.
Chairman Peterson then asked for a motion to approve Board Agenda Item 4-B, an ordinance
authorizing the acquisition of a permanent air rights easement over real property located at 3351 North
Sheffield Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, for the Red and Purple Modernization Project. After being moved
and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.
COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee Chairman Kevin Irvine
presented the report. The committee approved the December, 2016 committee minutes and deferred
the March, 2017 committee minutes. Mr. Irvine also stated that all committee agenda items, listed on
the Board agenda, had been presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended
for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Silva presented the report. The
committee reviewed the monthly report on Finance and approved the May 10th, 2017 committee
meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Board
agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board
approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine and Silva.
After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.

1

 All approved June 2017 Board ordinances are available on-line, at www.transitchicago.com, “About
CTA”, “Transit Board Meetings”, “Ordinances”, “Ordinance Numbers 017-44 through 017-58.
CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Chris Bushell presented the Construction Report.
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com , “About CTA”, “Board Presentations”, June
14th, 2017 Board Presentations”, “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None.
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn the June 14th, 2017 Chicago
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 