 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Health Hospitals Committee

2:30 PM
Tuesday, June 5, 2018 Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Butler, Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent: Daley, Fritchey and Garcia (3)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
Accordance with Cook County Code.

1. Mr. George Blakemore
18-3961

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/24/2018

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to
approve 18-3961. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Butler, Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent: Daley, Fritchey and Garcia (3)
18?1771

Presenter! by: TERRY MASON, MD, FACS, ChiefOperating Of?cer, Cook County Department of
Public Health

Page I of6

REPORT

Department: Cook County Department of Public Health 
Report Title: Quarterly Report

Report Period: Quarterly

Summary: The Cook County Department of Public Health hereby presents its Quarterly Report to the
Cook County Board of Commissioners in their capacity as the Board of Health of Cook County.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to
receive and ?le 18-1771. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Butler, Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)
Absent: Daley, Fritchey and Garcia (3)

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to
to Accept Supplemental Agenda. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Butler, Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (l4)
Absent: Daley, Fritchey and Garcia (3)
18-0734

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

DESIGNATION 0F COOK COUNTY AS A HYBRID ENTITY FOR THE PURPOSES OF
COMPLIANCE WITH THE HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT

WHEREAS, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its Rules
(codi?ed in the Code of Federal Regulations at 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, Pub. Law No. 10-191) impose
privacy and security standards and requirements upon health plans, health care clearing houses, and health
care providers that transmit any health information in electronic form in connection with standard
transactions within the scope of PHPAA, otherwise known as Covered Entities; and

WHEREAS, Cook County (?County?), a unit of local government under the laws of the State of Illinois,
is a single legal entity which conducts both Covered Functions and non-covered Functions; and

WHEREAS, the operation of the Cook County Health Hospitals System and the
Page 2 of 6

County?s patient arrestee program, self?insured health, dental, vision and pharmacy bene?t plans as
administered by the Department of Risk Management are Covered Functions subject to the HIPAA
Privacy and Security Rules; and

WHEREAS, HIPAA allows 3 Covered Entity to designate itself as a Hybrid Entity when it performs

both Covered and non-Covered Functions and to designate Health Care Components, which must comply
with and

WHEREAS, a Hybrid Entity limits the Covered Entity?s potential liability by requiring only those
departments designated as Health Care Components to comply with and

WHEREAS, HIPAA requires any entity that performs a function on behalf of a Covered Entity or a
Health Care Component of a Hybrid Entity, which involves the use or disclosure of protected health
information shall be required to execute a business associate agreement and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners desires to declare Cook County a Hybrid Entity,
designates the County?s Health Care Components; directs the Cook County Health System Board to
designate a Privacy and Security Of?cer at the and directs that the Director of Risk
Management or his/her designee serve as the Privacy Of?cer and designate a Security Of?cer to ensure
that the County?s patient arrestee program, self-insured health, dental, and pharmacy bene?t plans are
HIPAA compliant; and

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 -
ADMINISTRATION, ARTICLE XIV- HIPAA Compliance, SECTION 2-1020 - 2-1026- is hereby
enacted as follows:

ARTICLE XIV - HIPAA Compliance

Sec. 2-1020 - De?nitions

The de?nitions of terms set forth in HIPAA are adopted and incorporated herein by reference as if fully
set forth.

Business Associate A person or entity that performs a function on behalf of a Covered Entity or
assists a Covered Entity with a function or activity involving the use or disclosure of 

Business Associate A greemeni - A contract between a HIPAA covered entity and a
HIPAA business associate which protects PHI in accordance with HIPAA guidelines.

Covered Emily - A health plan, a health care clearinghouse or a health care provider that
transmits any health information in electronic form within the scope of HIPAA.

Covered Functions - Those functions of a Covered Entity which make it a health plan, health
care provider or health care clearinghouse.

Page 3 of6

Electronic Protected Health Information Protected health information created or
received by 3 Covered Entity that is transmitted by electronic media or maintained by electronic media.

Health Care Component A component or combination of components of a Hybrid Entity
designated by the Hybrid Entity, including any component that would meet the definition of a Covered
Entity if it were a separate legal entity. Health Care Component(s) may include a component only to the
extent that it performs covered functions.

Hybrid Entity - A single legal entity that is a Covered Entity whose business functions include
covered and non?covered functions as defined by HIPAA. The entity must designate Health Care
Components and document the designation in accordance with HIPAA requirements.

Non-covered unctions- Those functions performed by components of a Hybrid Entity that are not
subject to HIPAA requirements.

Protected Heaith Information - Individually identifiable health information collected
from an individual that is created or received by 3 Covered Entity. PHI encompasses information that
identifies an individual and relates to the past, present or future physical or mental health of an individual,
the provision of health care to an individual or payment for the provision of health care to the individual.

Sec. 2?1021 - Health Care Component Designation for Hybrid Entity

Cook County is required to comply with HIPAA privacy and security standards to maintain
the con?dentiality of PHI as referenced in Cook County Resolution 00 (adopted on July 1, 2003).

Cook County delegates itself as a Hybrid Entity pursuant to HIPAA as it conducts business
activities which include Covered Functions and non?Covered Functions.

(0) In accordance with HIPAA, only departments or organizations which administer Cook
County?s patient arrestee program, self-insured health plans or provide electronically billed health care

services and transmit will be designated as a Health Care Component of Cook County.

The following Cook County self-insured health plans and organizations are hereby designated
as Health Care Components of Cook County:

1. Self?insured health, dental, vision and phamiacy plans as administered by the Department of
Risk Management;

2. Patient Arrestee Medical Care program as administered by the Department of Risk
Management; and

3. Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

All other departments, organizations or functions of Cook County that do not engage in
covered functions are hereby designated as non?covered functions of Cook County.

Page 4 of6

 The Cook County Board may amend the designation of the Health Care Components by
adding or removing a department, of?ce, division or self-insured health plan to or from such designation.

Sec. 2?1022 - HIPAA Privacy Rule and Security Rule Compliance

Notwithstanding the designation of the County Health Care Components herein, the County
shall be responsible for developing policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the HIPAA Privacy
Rule and Security Rule, and shall be responsible for activities related to oversight of compliance with, and
enforcement of the aforementioned rules.

A Health Care Component shall not disclose any PHI, ePHl or HIPAA-required documentation which it
receives or maintains to another County department or agency 1) if such disclosure would be prohibited
by -

the HIPAA Privacy or Security Rules, 2) if the Health Care Component and 3) such other County
department or agency were separate and distinct legal entities.

Sec. 2-1023 - Designation of Privacy Of?cers and Security Of?cers

Each Health Care Component shall have a designated Privacy Of?cer and Security Of?cer.
A Health Care Component?s Privacy Of?cer and Security Of?cer may appoint an employee of the
Health Care Component to assist in the performance of the Privacy Of?cer and/or Security Of?cer?s
responsibilities.

The Privacy Of?cer and Security Of?cer for the Healthcare Components of the County
(other than the shall be the Director of the Department of Risk Management or his or her
designee.

The Privacy Of?cer and a Security Of?cer for the shall be the ChiefCompliance
and Privacy Of?cer for the Cook County Health and Hospital System or his or her designee.

The Privacy and Security Of?cers for their respective Health Care Components shall each
develop written policies and procedures and perform any other duties or obligations as required by
HIPAA.

Sec. 2-1024 - HIPAA Required Agreements; Authorization

Any entity (including another County department or agency) that performs a function on
behalf ofthe County or a Health Care Component of the County as de?ned in Section 2-102] which
involves the use or disclosure of PHI shall be required to execute a business associate agreement.

The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer of and the Director of Risk Management
of the County are hereby authorized to enter into BAAs necessary to comply with the HIPAA Privacy
and Security Rules and, to enter into all other agreements required by the HIPAA.

Sec. 2-1026 - Severability
Page 5 of6

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional, or unlawful for any reason, by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
portion shall be deemed and is hereby declared to be a separate, distinct and independent provision ofthis
ordinance, and such holding or holdings shall not affect the validity ofthe remaining portions ofthis
ordinance.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 18-0734. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Butler, Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (14)

Absent: Daley, Fritchey and Garcia (3)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski to
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Butler, Arroyo, Boykin, Deer, Gainer, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (l4)
Absent: Daley, Fritchey and Garcia (3)

Respectfully submitted,

75. 22L

Chairman Secretary

 

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

 

Page 6 of6

