MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MAY 19, 2008
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, May 19, 2008 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
in the conference room of the Gaming Board Offices on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago,
Illinois.
On Monday, May 19, 2008 at 9:50 a.m. the following Board Members were present: Members
Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
At 9:45 a.m. on Monday, May 19, 2008, Member Gardner called the meeting to order. Pursuant
to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section
6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Winkler moved that the Board retire to Closed
Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and relating to
the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters;
Closed session minutes; and
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings.

Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote. The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:55 p.m. The Board went
into open session at 1:15 p.m.
Roll call vote was taken at the start of the open session with Chairman Jaffe, Members Gardner,
Winkler, Sullivan and Moore present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES –
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Special
Meeting of April 8, 2008, the Regular Meeting of April 21 and 22, 2008 and the Special
Meeting of April 28, 2008. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Special
Meeting of April 8, 2008 and the Regular Meeting of April 22, 2008. Member Gardner
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 BOARD POLICY ITEMS –

•

Proposed Rules
●

Rule 3000.1050 – Second Notice Filing and Adoption Upon Approval from JCAR
Member Moore moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule
3000.1050 for Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and
publishing of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are
made during the Second Notice process. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS – no motion
The Chairman stated that the Board will not be voting on the Penn Merger with Fortress and
Centerbridge at this meeting.
BOARD MEMBER COMMENTS – no motion
Member Moore stated that he is very disappointed in the representation of senior level owner
licensee approvals. Although they may be qualified, he stated that there was no diversity
present.
ADMINSITRATOR’S COMMENTS – no motion
Administrator Ostrowski commented on the General Managers’ meeting that was held last
month. Among the issues that were discussed, remote access and downloading of credits.
Senior staff went on a tour of Horseshoe in Hammond, Indiana regarding said issues. Staff will
be working with Mr. Swoik and the General Managers regarding the issues that were brought up
at the meeting.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS

•

Casino Queen - Waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule and Request to sell its old riverboat
Pursuant to section 3000.260 of the Board’s Adopted Rules Member Winkler moved to
waive the two-meeting rule required by section 3000.105(e) of the Rules to permit
Casino Queen to present its request for approval the sale of its old riverboat.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

2

 ●

MGM – Tracinda Pledge Agreement – Initial consideration only

•

Casino Queen – Request to sell its old riverboat (If Waiver of Two-Meeting Rule
Approved)
Based on the staff’s review and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved pursuant to
section 3000.230(d)(1)(J) of the Adopted Rules, to approve Casino Queen Inc.’s
request to sell its old riverboat in accordance with the Casino Queen Purchase And
Sale Agreement dated April 22, 2008. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – James E. Thomason, Assistant
General Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve James E. Thomason as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Assistant General Manager at the Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand
Victoria Casino. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Jumer’s Casino Rock Island – Mary Shelaine Reynolds, Controller, Level One
Member Gardner congratulated Ms. Reynolds on her accomplishments and advised her of
the challenging position that she is about to accept. He also commented on the need for
further schooling by Ms. Reynolds.
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Mary Shelaine Reynolds as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Controller at Jumer’s Casino Rock Island. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino – Christopher R. Gibase, Vice President of Operations-Key
Person
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved
that the Board approve Christopher R. Gibase as a Key Person for Par-A-Dice
Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino as Vice President of
Operations for Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel and
Casino. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Alton Belle Casino – Himbert Sinopoli, Assistant General Manager, Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board approve Himbert Sinopoli as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the

3

 position of Assistant General Manager at the Alton Belle Casino. Member Winkler
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino – David L. Chandler, Midwest and South Regional Director
of Surveillance for Boyd Gaming Corporation - Motion Clarification
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board approve David L. Chandler as a Key Person for Par-A-Dice Gaming
Corporation d/b/a Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino as Midwest and South Regional
Director of Surveillance for Boyd Gaming Corporation. Member Sullivan seconded
the motion. The motion passed 4 to 1. Member Winkler voted Nay.

•

Par-A-Dice Hotel and Casino – Michael F. Bond, Vice President of Internal Audit at
Boyd Gaming Corporation – Key Person – Motion Clarification
Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved
that the Board approve Michael F. Bond as a Key Person for Par-A-Dice Hotel and
Casino as Vice President of Internal Audit for Boyd Gaming Corporation. Member
Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS - Level 2’s & 3’s
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the Board
approve 29 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 124 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice of
Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended to recommend
denial and either did not respond or provide additional information to rebut the
recommendation.
1.
2.
3.

Linda M. Randles;
Daniel Hanks; and
John Chambers.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

•

Ardell Prather - Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Ardell Prather, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose his January 30, 2008 arrest.

4

 Further, Member Moore moved that the Board suspend Ardell Prather’s occupational
license for 7 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from
the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that
time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Lashonda Ferrell – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Lashonda Ferrell, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose her November 30, 2007 arrest.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board suspend Lashonda Ferrell’s
occupational license for 5 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Timmie D. Stewart – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Timmie D. Stewart, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose his November 3, 2007 arrest and subsequent
conviction.
Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board suspend Timmie D. Stewart’s
occupational license for 7 days without pay. Said action to take effect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

•

Brenda Sue Rushing – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Brenda Sue Rushing, an occupational
licensee, for her misappropriation of employee reward points from another
Metropolis employee.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Brenda Sue Rushing’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

5

 •

Dawn E. Lovejoy – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Dawn E. Lovejoy, an occupational
licensee, for her federal conviction on 3 counts of theft of government property and,
further, because her conduct discredits the Illinois Gaming Industry and the State
of Illinois.
Further, Member Moore moved that the Board revoke Dawn E. Lovejoy’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

•

Hollywood Casino Aurora, Alan Rosenzweig, Christopher Rellinger, and George Patrick
Medchill
Based on the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Hollywood Casino Aurora, Alan
Rosenzweig, Christopher Rellinger and George Patrick Medchill, based upon their
failure to check a final list of customer prospect names to ensure that Hollywood’s
direct mail vendor did not send promotional materials to any enrollees in the IGB’s
Self-Exclusion Program, even though they knew, or should have known, that the
process employed to prevent SEPs from receiving promotional material associated
with Hollywood’s prospect marketing was inadequate and which caused
Hollywood’s promotional materials to be sent to at least 146 enrollees in the IGB’s
Self-Exclusion Program.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board impose a fine of $800,000 on
Hollywood Casino Aurora, suspend Alan Rosenzweig’s occupational license for a
period of 10 days without pay, suspend Christopher Rellinger’s occupational license
for a period of 14 days without pay and suspend George Patrick Medchill’s
occupational license for a period of 3 days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee
files an Answer within that time period. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
motion passed 4 to 1. Member Sullivan voted Nay.
Chief Legal Counsel Michael Fries stated that the staff at Hollywood Casino Aurora was
very cooperative.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS/ALJ REPORTS

•

In re the Disciplinary Action of Rene Gil Ramos, DC-08-04
Pursuant to section 3000.1155 of the Adopted Rules, Member Sullivan moved for the
adoption and entry of the attached Final Board Order revoking the Occupational

6

 License held by Rene Gil Ramos and setting forth therein our bases for revocation.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
ADJOURNMENT At 1:45 p.m. Member Winkler motioned for adjournment while Member Gardner seconded the
motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

7

 