MINUTES OF SPECIAL MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
December 3, 2002
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on December 3, 2002 to
discuss and review presentations given by IGT, Aristocrat Technologies, and Bally Gaming,
Inc. on ticket vouchering technology. The Board met in the Las Vegas Banquet Room of
Harrah’s Casino, Joliet at 151 N. Joliet Street in Joliet, Illinois.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Ira Rogal, Violet Clark, and Gary Peterlin.
The meeting convened at 10:06 A.M.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announced that the Board has a new member, William Dugan, and
that Mr. Dugan would not be participating in today’s (December 3, 2002) Special meeting
nor will he be participating at the December 9, 2002 Regular meeting, due to the fact that he
is on vacation. Chairman Higginbottom stated that Mr. Dugan has a wealth of experience to
share with the Board, and that he will make a fine contribution to the Board.
Supplier Licensees
IGT- PRESENTATION OF TICKET VOUCHERING TECHNOLOGY – John Janicik,
attorney, and Steve Miller, Senior Business Manager for IGT, were present on behalf of IGT.
Mr. Miller provided the Board with a presentation and brochures that provided a quick
overview of IGT’s Ticket In Ticket Out (TITO) system. Mr. Miller also provided the Board
with information on how IGT’s Easy Pay System works, how games interact with TITO, and
an overview of the features that the new technology has to offer. Mr. Miller stated that IGT
started the Ticket In Ticket Out system two years ago and currently have close to 100
systems installed.
Member Peterlin asked if IGT’s TITO system is interstate or just intrastate. Mr. Miller stated
that at this point in time IGT is just dealing with intrastate and that IGT is not looking to go
across State lines at this time. Mr. Miller stated that going across the State lines would create
a challenge as it relates to gaming regulator concerns.
Chairman Higginbottom asked if IGT has utilized the TITO system in cross property
validation with other operations. Mr. Miller stated that the technology is available and the
functionality is built into the TITO system for cross property validation; however, Mr. Miller
stated that cross property validation is not “live” in any jurisdiction as of yet. Mr. Miller

 stated that IGT plans on submitting a proposal on cross property validation to gaming labs
and the State of Nevada within the next calendar year. Mr. Miller stated that IGT would run
a test on cross property validation in the State of Nevada with one of IGT’s corporate
customers by the summer of 2003.
Member Clark asked if there have been any complaints from the patrons regarding playing
with cash versus tickets. Mr. Miller stated that there was an overwhelming response to how
well and how fast a lot of the regular patrons accepted the new system. Mr. Miller stated that
the most popular response that he has heard from patrons is that they don’t have to worry
about their hands getting dirty from the coins when playing the slot machines.
With regard to IGT’s player cash-out options - where a player can switch from the
redeemable ticket to cash - Administrator Parenti asked that if the Board decided to set a
limit on the amount of cash a patron could receive, could a patron avoid that amount when
they see that they are reaching the maximum amount by switching from card to cash. Mr.
Miller stated that it was not possible.
Administrator Parenti asked if IGT’s system is wireless. Mr. Miller stated that IGT’s system
is not wireless; however, the wireless option is a feature that IGT installs per the customer’s
request based on the approval of the regulatory body. Mr. Miller briefed the Administrator
on the security problems with the wireless system.
Mr. Miller provided the Board with a demonstration of IGT’s TITO system.
ARISTOCRAT TECHNOLOGIES/CDS – PRESENTATION OF TICKET VOUCHERING
TECHNOLOGY - Walt Stowe, Vice President of Legal and Compliance for Aristocrat
Technologies and Joe Buda, Senior Trainer, were present on behalf of Aristocrat
Technologies.
In regards to security, Administrator Parenti asked Mr. Stowe if a patron has a ticket that is
damaged but knows the barcode, does the cashier have authorization to punch in the barcode
by word of mouth from the patron or would the cashier be suspicious. Administrator Parenti
asked what the procedures were if a patron has a damaged ticket but the patron knows the
barcode.
Mr. Stowe stated that the cashier would be suspicious of how the patron knew the barcode.
Mr. Stowe stated that the patrons are aware that the tickets are equivalent to currency and
that if the patron allows the ticket to get out of their control they run the risk of losing it. Mr.
Stowe stated that it would be hard for someone to copy the ticket number unless a patron
looked closely over another patron’s shoulder.
Mr. Buda provided the Board with a brief overview of Aristocrat’s Oasis Casino
Management System. Mr. Buda stated that Aristocrat’s previous owner, CDS, had been
installing Ticket In Ticket Out (TITO) systems since the mid 1990’s. Mr. Buda stated that
2

 Aristocrat has experience with the TITO system. Mr. Buda provided the Board with detailed
information on the functionality of the Oasis ticket redemption; how a ticket redemption is
performed; key ticketing reports, such as ticketing liability reports, ticket audit counts and
audit logs; and ticket drops. Mr. Buda discussed the diagnostic monitor, which is a program
included in Aristocrat’s Oasis System that allows the history of a ticket to be viewed by
game.
Mr. Buda provided the Board with a demonstration of Aristocrat’s Oasis Casino
Management System.
BALLY GAMING, INC. – PRESENTATION OF TICKET VOUCHERING
TECHNOLOGY – Patrick Crawford, Manager of Product Compliance, was present on
behalf of Bally Gaming, Inc. Mr. Crawford provided the Board with a brief presentation and
a handout that provided an overview of Bally’s Ticket In Ticket Out (TITO) system. Mr.
Crawford’s presentation covered three key components of Bally’s system: the game
monitoring unit (GMU); the cashier’s station; and the soft count station.
Mr. Crawford provided the Board with a demonstration of Bally’s TITO system.
Member Clark asked how the patron would be able to redeem his or her money if the
validation database or the central computer should shut down.
Mr. Crawford stated that when a patron enters his or her ticket into the game, the system
verifies if the validation number is good. If it is not good or if the system is down, it would
reject the ticket. Mr. Crawford stated that at the point where the system does not take the
ticket, a supervisor then checks the system and calls technical support. Mr. Crawford stated
that one of the security features of the system is that when the central computer is off line,
the game does not permit the patron to use the TITO system, and the patron would have to
see the cashier to “cash out.”
Administrator Parenti asked how many states does Bally Gaming, Inc. have TITO systems
operating.
Mr. Crawford stated that Bally Gaming, Inc. has TITO systems operating in over seven
states.
Administrator Parenti asked how Bally Gaming, Inc.’s system differs materially from
Aristocrat’s or IGT’s systems.
Mr. Crawford stated that Bally’s system differs materially from IGT in terms of the one wire
verses two-wire solution. Mr. Crawford stated that IGT uses the two-wire solution, which
means that you have one wire for the validation and one wire for the entire system. Mr.
Crawford stated that Bally, as well as Aristocrat uses the one wire system.

3

 Chairman Higginbottom announced that the demonstrations at today’s special meeting is the
first step in the Board’s process in rule changes that are necessary in order for the Board to
implement the ticket vouchering technology in Illinois.
Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette Tamayo, stated that Staff’s goals are to draft new
rules and amend existing rules. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff has a total of 25 rules that Staff
would be presenting to the Board at the December 9, 2002 Regular Board meeting, which at
that time Staff would be asking for the Board’s permission to disseminate to the licensees
and members of the public who are interested for their comment. Ms. Tamayo stated that
Staff would like to receive comments in time for the January 21, 2003 Regular meeting, at
which time Staff anticipates to request the Board’s permission to file the rule with the
Secretary of State’s Office to start the rule-making process. Ms. Tamayo stated that during
the rule-making process, there would be an additional 45-days public comment period. Ms.
Tamayo stated that at the conclusion of the 45-day public comment period, Staff would
review all of the public comments and return to the Board with any further
recommendations. Ms. Tamayo stated that Staff would then ask permission to proceed
towards final adoption. Ms. Tamayo stated that one of the goals in drafting the rules is
making sure that there is an open and competitive environment that allows all of the various
systems, regardless of their technical differences, to be able to compete in the Illinois market.
Ms. Tamayo stated that another one of Staff’s goals is to ensure that there is clear
accountability at the “back of the house” for the transactions that occur as a result of
ticketing.
Administrator Parenti stated that the Board and Staff are grateful for the fine presentations by
all three supplier licensees. Administrator Parenti stated that the process will be open and
competitive, and that the Board and Staff will do what is best for the integrity of gaming in
the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom thanked the presenters for their presentations. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that the presenters did an excellent job and that their presentations were
very informative.
At 11:40 A.M. Member Rogal moved that the Board adjourn. Member Peterlin seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
At approximately 12:00 P.M., the Board members took an informational tour of Harrah’s
Casino, Joliet.

Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board
4

 