STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
JOINT PANEL
Minutes of the Joint Panel Meeting
Held on November 9, 2010
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:30 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jacalyn J. Zimmerman, Joint Panel Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the State Panel; Michael Hade,
Member of the State Panel; Jessica Kimbrough, Member of the State Panel; Albert Washington,
Member of the State Panel; Charles Anderson, Member of the Local Panel; Edward Sadlowski, Member
of the Local Panel; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff
members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

A. Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the July 13, 2010 meeting. Member
Coli moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the
motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
B. Chairman Zimmerman called for approval of the minutes of the October 12, 2010 meeting.
Member Coli moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed
the motion—five in favor, none against—Members Anderson and Sadlowski abstained.
IV.

BOARD ACTIONS

A. The Board approved the following meeting dates for 2011, with the Local Panel meetings to
begin at 10:00 a.m. and the State Panel meetings to follow at 11:00 a.m.: January 11; February 8;
March 8; April 12; June 7; July 12; August 9; September 13; October 4; November 8; and
December 6. The Board approved the following backup meeting dates for 2011, with the Local
Panel meetings to begin at 10:00 a.m. and the State Panel meetings to follow at 11:00 a.m.:
January 13; February 10; March 10; April 14; June 9; July 14; August 11; September 15;
October 6; November 10; and December 8. In addition, the Board approved a Local Panel
meeting to begin at 10:00 a.m. on May 3, 2011; and a State Panel meeting to begin at 11:00 a.m.
on May 10, 2011, with a backup meeting date scheduled for 11:00 a.m. on May 12, 2011.
B. The Board considered the applications of Mr. Richard M. Stanton and Mr. Jules I. Crystal for
addition to the agency's mediation/arbitration roster. The Board discussed Mr. Stanton's overall
experience and background. Chairman Zimmerman urged that Mr. Stanton be reminded in the
Board's correspondence notifying him of his addition to the agency's mediation/arbitration roster,
to disclose prior mediation work pursuant to his contract with the agency, if selected from the
roster by parties, one of whom was previously involved in such mediation work. The Board
discussed the issue raised by Chairman Zimmerman at great length, reviewing the ramifications
associated with such a reminder and whether existing ethical rules governing the conduct of
arbitrators obviated the need for such action. At the conclusion thereof, Member Coli made a
motion to add Mr. Stanton to the Board's mediation/arbitration roster. Member Anderson
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously, by a voice vote. The Board
then discussed Mr. Crystal's overall experience and background. At the conclusion thereof,
Member Hade made a motion to add Mr. Crystal to the Board's mediation/arbitration roster.
Member Washington seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.

 V.

LEGISLATIVE/FISCAL REPORTS

Executive Director Brosnan noted that there was nothing to report regarding legislative matters. He then
presented the fiscal report, reviewing in detail the general ledger sheet and the disbursement record. In
addition, he presented an updated report regarding the agency's court reporting expense. The Chair and
Members then discussed and questioned various aspects of the fiscal report at length.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

The Board questioned whether there was a need for executive session, and after a short discussion,
concluded it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Zimmerman called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the
meeting, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Joint Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of December, 2010.

2

 