Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Rules Committee
Tuesday, September 12, 2017

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-0287
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 6/6/2017
17-0288
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

SECRETARY TO THE BOARD, Matthew B. DeLeon, presented in printed form a record of the
Journal of Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 6/6/2017.
Legislative History :

7/20/17 - FPD Board of Commissioners - defer

Page 1 of 2

 Rules Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA - Draft

17-0337
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

SECRETARY TO THE BOARD, Matthew B. DeLeon, presented in printed form a record of the
Journal of Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 7/20/2017.

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice Chairman: Daley
Members:
Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims

Page 2 of 2

September 12, 2017

 