STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on January 10, 2012
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Edward Sadlowski, Member of the Board;
John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD December 6, 2011

Mr. Gierut called for the approval of the minutes from the December 6, 2011 meeting. Member Sadlowski moved to
approve the minutes of the December 6, 2011 meeting. Member Anderson seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Mr. Gierut asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the period of
time from December 1 to December 31, 2011. He presented the report.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-RC-11-014
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ County of Cook

Mr. Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) Kehoe's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), recommending that the Board adopt the ALJ’s
RDO finding that two employees of the County of Cook (Employer) in the title of respiratory therapy supervisor (RTS)
were not, in fact, supervisors within the meaning of Section 3(r) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315
(2010) as amended (Act). After discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to affirm the General Counsel’s
recommendation to adopt the administrative law judge’s recommendation. Member Anderson seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-RC-10-036
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700/ City of Chicago
Mr. Gierut called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Owen’s RDO and asked whether the Board
wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. L-CA-11-060
Licensed Practical Nurses Association of Illinois/ County of Cook
Mr. Gierut called the case. General Counsel Post reviewed the issues raised by the appeal, stating that the appeal
provides no sound reason to vacate the Executive Director’s order of deferral, and recommending the Board instead
accept it. After discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to affirm the General Counsel’s recommendation to
affirm the Executive Director’s deferral to arbitration. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. L-CA-10-066
Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 241/ Chicago Transit Authority
Mr. Gierut indicated that he was recusing himself from consideration of the matter in the above mentioned case.
General Counsel Post called the case, recommending that the Board reverse the Executive Director’s dismissal. After
discussion, Member Sadlowski made a motion to affirm the General Counsel’s recommendation to reverse the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

The Board opted to review the fiscal and legislative reports in the joint panel meeting scheduled for 10:30 a.m. on this
date. After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it
was unnecessary at this time
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago, Illinois, this 7th day of February, 2011.

2

 