STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on May 10, 2016
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, 4th Floor, Room S401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Melissa
Mlynski, Executive Director; Kathryn Zeledon Nelson, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna
Hamburg-Gal, Associate General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD ON April 12, 2016

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the April 12, 2016 meeting. Member Anderson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORTS

Executive Director Mlynski presented the Executive Director reports. The Chair and Members discussed the reports.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. L-RC-15-007
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Chicago

Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Nelson to call the case. General Counsel Nelson called the case then asked
Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present the issues of the case to the Board. She stated that
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Deena Sanceda issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), recommending
Supervisor of Auditing (SOA) position is supervisory within the meaning of Section 3(r) of the Illinois Public Labor
Relations Act. The Petitioner filed exceptions and the Employer filed a response to those exceptions and cross-exceptions.
After discussion, Member Lewis moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Anderson seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.

Case No. L-UC-15-003
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/City of Chicago

Chairman Gierut asked General Counsel Nelson to call and present the issues of the case to the Board. General
Counsel Nelson stated that ALJ Kelly Coyle issued a RDO dismissing the unit clarification. Employer filed
exceptions. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Lewis
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.

Case No. L-CA-16-044
Kenneth Sawyer/City of Chicago (Department of Streets and Sanitation)

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the Respondent violated Section
10(a) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal and Respondent filed a response. After her presentation, General
Counsel Nelson recommended that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member
Anderson moved to affirm the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.

Case No. L-CB-16-028
Kenneth Sawyer/International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 700

Chairman Gierut called the case and asked General Counsel Nelson to present the issues to the Board. General Counsel
Nelson stated that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on a charge alleging that the Respondent violated Section
10(b) of the Act and that Charging Party filed an appeal. After her presentation, General Counsel Nelson recommended
that the Board accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. After discussion, Member Anderson moved to affirm the
Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Lewis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice
vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Lewis made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 9th day of June, 2016.

2

 