 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Business and Economic Development Committee

Wednesday, April 29, 2015 9:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Garcia, Murphy, Arroyo, Butler, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent: Commissioners Gainer, German and Steele (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers.

1. Mary Harts?eld, Vice President Warriors on the Watch, Inc
2. George Blakemore, concerned citizen

15-3002

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/1/2015

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that this Committee
Minutes be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Murphy, Arroyo, Butler, Moore and Schneider (6)
Absent: Commissioners Gainer, Gorman and Steele (3)
15-2365

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM FEE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION, Article II,

Divisionl- Generally, Section 74-46 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-46. Bureau of Economic Development Property Tax Incentive Program Fee.

Cook County Bureau of Economic Development shall charge the following processing fees in connection with
the property tax incentive program review conducted by the Bureau of Economic Development:

All property tax incentive applications received by the Cook County Assessor, as provided for in
Division 2 of this Article, that require a Cook County Board of Commissioners Resolution of support
shall be assessed a fee of $1 ,000.00. Upon submission of the property tax incentive application to the
Bureau of Economic Development, the applicant seeking the incentive and Resolution of support shall
pay a non-refundable fee to the County of Cook to cover administrative costs related to processing the
application.

All property tax incentive applications received by the Cook County Assessor, as provided for in
Division 2 of this Article, that require a Resolution of support from the Economic Development
Advisory Committee (EDAC) shall be assessed a fee of $2,500.00. Upon submission of the property tax
incentive application to the Bureau of Economic Development, the applicant seeking the incentive and
Resolution of support shall pay a non-refundable fee to the County of Cook to cover administrative costs
related to processing the application.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 FEES, shall be
amended to include the Bureau of Economic Development Property Tax Incentive Program Fees provided in
Chapter 74 TAXATION, Section 74-46.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on June 1, 2015

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Commissioners Murphy, Arroyo, Butler, and Moore (5)
Absent: Commissioners Gainer, Gorman and Steele (3)
Nay: Commissioner Schneider (1)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Moore, to adjourn the meeting.

Respectfully submitted,

(?irman I S?ytary

