Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee Minutes
Wednesday, October 5, 2016

10:00AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Daley, Commissioners Fritchey, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Gainer (1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore, concerned citizen
2. Karin Hribar, Co-President, League of Women Voters of Cook County

16-5652
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9/14/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Steele, to approve
16-5652. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Daley, Commissioners Fritchey, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Gainer (1)

 16-4645
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and JOHN P. DALEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR MANAGING CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEMS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division 2 - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Sections 2-105 (g) and (j)
(3) - Meetings of the Board of the Cook County of the Cook County Code is are hereby amended as
Follows:
Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.
…

(g) Order of business.
(1) At each regular meeting of the Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed by
the Board) is as follows:
a. Public testimony.
b. Consent calendar
c. a. New Business
d. b. Committee Items Requiring Board action

(2) The Board may grant members of the public leave to speak on items pending before the
Board pursuant to the rules set forth in Section 2-105(i).

(3) All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding
officer, without debate, subject to appeal.

(4) Meetings of the Board may commence with a prayer or invocation and the Pledge of
Allegiance.
…
(3) Consent calendar. The Consent Calendar is a compilation of proposed resolutions concerning deaths,
anniversaries, and congratulations for notable achievements. Only proposed resolutions conforming to this
description may be submitted to the Secretary for inclusion on the Consent Calendar, and it shall be the
duty of the Secretary to prepare the Consent Calendar for any regular meeting of the Board Proposed
resolutions on the Consent Calendar are non-debatable, and shall not be read in to the record or otherwise
considered individually, but shall be part of a motion to approve the Consent Calendar in its entirety. Any
item on the Consent Calendar may be removed by a motion, seconded and approved, and shall then be
subject to the provisions of this division as provided herein. Once a month, a Special Meeting of the Board
shall be called at 9:00 am of the morning, preceding the regular meeting of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners when such meeting is convened at 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,
Illinois 60602. The purpose of the Special Meeting wilbe to consider proposed Consent Resolutions
concerning deaths, anniversaries and congratulations notable achievements. Such Special Meetings shall
have as the only agenda items the reading of the resolution, discussion of the resolution and the taking of
a photo. In the months where there is no Forest Preserve meeting at 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
60602, a Special Meeting of the Board may be called for purposes of the Consent Calendar.
…

Page 2 of 4

 Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on December 1, 2016.
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, to recommend
for deferral 16-4645. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Daley, Commissioners Fritchey, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Gainer (1)

16-4708
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING DECORUM GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC SPEAKERS
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
2 Administration, Article III, County Board, Section 2-105 (i) of the Cook County Code, is hereby
amended as follows:
…
(i) Public testimony. Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be permitted at regular and
special meetings of the Board meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board. Authorization as a
public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their name,
address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the
meeting agenda. on any and all matters pending before the Board or in a Committee of the Board meeting
on that day at only one of the following times:
1) At 9:00 am on the day of a meeting of the Board;
2) At 9:30 am when there is no meeting of the Board, but a Committee or Committees of the
Board will meet and there is a meeting of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
of Commissioners; or
3) Thirty minutes before the first scheduled meeting of a Committee of the Board on days when
there is no meeting of the Board, but a Committee or Committees of the Board will meet.
The Secretary shall record and broadcast the public testimony. Pursuant to Section 2-105 (e)(3) of the
Code, should a quorum not be present at a meeting of the Board or a Committee of the Board, the
Commissioners present shall be competent to receive public testimony. Public testimony must be
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes;
the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board. Failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is
germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony. shall observe the commonly
accepted rules of courtesy, decorum, dignity and good taste. Public speakers shall not:
Page 3 of 4

 (1)

make vulgar, abusive, slanderous. defamatory. obscene. threatening, or personally
offensive Remarks;

(2)

engage in any disorderly conduct which disturbs or disrupts the orderly conduct of any
meeting;

(3)

speak to an item that is not germane to the meeting;

(4)

fail to adhere to the time requirements.

Public speakers shall be given notice of this rule on the agenda for any meeting.
…
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, to recommend
for deferral 16-4708. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Daley, Commissioners Fritchey, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Gainer (1)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Daley, Commissioners Fritchey, Morrison, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims and Steele (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Gainer (1)

Respectfully submitted,

_____________________________________
Chairman

__________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 4 of 4

 