Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Human Relations Committee
Wednesday, July 29, 2015

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA - REVISED
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-4645
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/30/2015

15-4212
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COUNTY ECONOMIC INCENTIVES
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42, Human Relations, Article
II, Human Rights, Section 42-42 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Page 1 of 4

 Section 42-42. County economic incentives.
(a) Prohibition. No person or entity who is the beneficiary of an economic incentive provided by Cook County
("County") shall engage in unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment against any individual in the terms or
conditions of employment, credit, public accommodations, housing, or provision of facilities, services or
programs. "Sexual harassment" has such meaning as is ascribed to it in other sections of this article.
(b) Provisions of County Economic Incentive Agreements. The Cook County Bureau of Economic Development,
and all other department heads, as necessary and authorized, shall include a provision in all County economic
incentive agreements that details the County's policies with respect to unlawful discrimination and sexual
harassment, as embodied in this article, and that requires every recipient of a County-provided economic
incentive to certify its compliance with these policies and its agreement to abide by such policies as a part of the
recipient’s obligations under the incentive agreement. All County economic incentive agreements shall further
provide that if any recipient of an economic development incentive from County is found to have violated any
provision of this article, or furnished false or misleading information in any investigation, hearing, or inquiry
held pursuant to this article, that incentive will as a result be subject to immediate termination.
(c) Disclosure and Disqualification. Any person or entity applying to receive an economic incentive from or
otherwise benefit from an economic incentive provided by Cook County shall be required to disclose whether
that person or entity has been found guilty of or liable for, or settled a claim related to a charge of unlawful
discrimination or sexual harassment. If, as a result of the applicant’s compliance with the disclosure requirement,
it is shown that the applicant has been found guilty of or liable for, or settled a claim related to a charge of
unlawful discrimination or sexual harassment, both the applicant and the application shall be disqualified, and
the applicant shall be prospectively barred from receiving or benefitting from an economic incentive provided by
Cook County.
(d) Post-Award Disclosure. If the recipient or beneficiary of an economic incentive provided by Cook County fails
to properly comply with the disclosure requirement set forth in Section 42-42(c), and is subsequently learned to
have been found guilty of or liable for, or settled a claim related to a charge of unlawful discrimination or sexual
harassment, the economic incentive to which that person or entity is a party shall be immediately terminated, and
the recipient or beneficiary of that economic incentive shall be required to repay the sum total of incentive
proceeds and / or benefits received to date.

Sec. 42-42 43. - Effective date. This article shall take effect 60 days after becoming law.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.
Legislative History: 7/1/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Human Relations Committee

15-4214
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, JERRY BUTLER,
DEBORAH SIMS, LUIS ARROYO JR, JOHN P. DALEY and JOAN PATRICIA
MURPHY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY HUMAN RIGHTS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 Human Relations, Article II
Human Rights, Sec. 42-35 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 42-35 Employment
Page 2 of 4

 ***
(h) Criminal Record or Criminal History
(1) Except as otherwise provided in section 42-35(h), no Employer, agent of an employer or employment
agency ) shall inquire about, consider, or require disclosure of the criminal record or criminal history of an
Employee when considering an application for employment until the Employee has been determined
qualified for the position and notified that he or she has been selected for an interview by the Employer or
Employment Agency or, if there is not an interview, until after a conditional offer of employment is made to
the Employee by the Employer or Employment agency.
(2) The requirements set forth in section 42-35(h)(1) do not apply to:
a. Employers that are subject to the Illinois Job Opportunities for Qualified Applicants Act, 820
ILCS 75/1 et seq., or agents of Employers or Employment agencies seeking qualifiedEmployees on behalf of such
an Employer;
b. Positions for which a satisfactory criminal background is an established bona fide occupational
requirement of a particular position or a particular group of employees;
c. Positions for which federal or state law requires an Employer to exclude Employees with certain
criminal convictions;
d. Positions for which a standard fidelity bond or an equivalent bond is required and an Employee’s
conviction of one or more specified criminal offenses would disqualify the applicant from obtaining such a bond;
e. Positions for which licensure under the Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems Act,
ILCS 50/1 et seq is required.

210

(3) The requirements set forth in section 42-35(h)(1) do not prohibit an Employer from notifying Employees in
writing of the specific offenses that will disqualify an applicant from employment in a particular position.
(4) If the County of Cook, subsequent to interviewing or extending a conditional offer of employment to an
Employee determines that the Employee has a criminal conviction, that fact alone shall not automatically
disqualify the Employee from employment. The Employer, prior to making a decision, should consider
the following factors:
a. The nature of the Employee’s specific offense or offenses;
b. The nature of the Employee’s sentencing;
c. The Employee’s number of convictions;
d. The length of time that has passed following the Employee’s most recent conviction;
e. The relationship between the Employee’s crimes and the nature of the relevant position;
f.

The age of the Employee at the time of the most recent conviction;

g. Any evidence of rehabilitation, including but not limited to whether the Employee has
completed a treatment or counseling program;
h. The extent to which the Employee has been open, honest, and cooperative in the
Page 3 of 4

 examination of his or her background; and
i.

Any other information which the Employer deems relevant to the Employee’s suitability
for the position.

(5) If an employer makes a decision not to hire an Employee based in whole or in part on the Employee’s
criminal history or record, the employer, agent of the Employer or Employment Agency shall inform the
Employee of the same at the time he or she is informed of the Employer’s decision not to hire.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History:7/1/15Board of Commissionersreferred to the Human Relations Committee

_________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Boykin
Silvestri
Arroyo Jr., Fritchey, Sims, Steele, Suffredin

Page 4 of 4

 