MINUTES OF TELEPHONIC MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
March 10, 2004
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
A Special Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held on March 10, 2004.
The Board met in the Conference Room of the Kirkland and Ellis Offices at the Aon Center,
located at 200 E. Randolph, 54th Floor, Chicago, Illinois.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom. Members Violet
Clark, Gary Peterlin and William Fanning were present telephonically.
The meeting convened at 9:24 A.M. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14)
of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Peterlin
moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed
Session on today’s agenda and relating to the following subject matters:
1. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
2. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
At 9:35 A.M. the Board recessed to attend the public auctioning for the sale of Emerald
Casino Inc., conducted by the investment-banking firm Rothschild, Inc.
At 5:10 P.M. the Board reconvened in Closed session. The following Board members were
present: Chairman Higginbottom, Members Violet Clark and Gary Peterlin. Member William
Fanning was present telephonically.
At 6:20 P.M. the Board recessed to attend the public auction for the sale of Emerald Casino
Inc., conducted by the investment-banking firm Rothschild, Inc.
At 7:37 P.M. the Board reconvened in Closed session. The following Board members were
present: Chairman Higginbottom, Members Violet Clark and Gary Peterlin. Member
William Fanning was present telephonically.
At 7:58 P.M. the Board recessed to attend the public auction for the sale of Emerald Casino
Inc., conducted by the investment-banking firm Rothschild, Inc.

 Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

