 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Real Estate Committee Report
Tuesday, March 11, 2014 9:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Murphy, Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri,
Steele and Suffredin and Tolbolski (10)

Absent: Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Gainer, Moore, Reyes, and Sims (7)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance with

Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

14-0104
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, Genera] Superintendent

PROPOSED SALE OR PURCHASE OF REAL ESTATE
Department(s): Legal

Other Part(ies): Village of Elmwood Park, Illinois

Request: It is respectfully requested that this proposed sale be approved.

Description of Real Estate:

SURPLUS PARCEL 1

0.49403 i acres described as follows:

That part ofLots 10 and 11 in Assessor?s Division ofNortheast 1A of Section 35, Township 40 North, Range 12 East
of the Third Principal Meridian, lying northeasterly of Thatcher Road in Cook County, Illinois.

Part of Ple and 12-35-200-009-000

SURPLUS PARCEL 
0,350 i acres described as follows:
That portion of the East 1/2 of the Southeast of Section 35, Township 40 North, Range 12 East of the Third

Principal Meridian lying northeasterly of the northeasterly right of way line of Thatcher Avenue in Cook County,

Illinois.
Part of PIN 12?35-400-003-0000

Section: 

Parcel(s): Surplus Parcel 1 and Surplus Parcel 
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $250,000 in Revenue.
Accounts: 06-5500 Anticipated Land Sales/Surplus

Summary: The Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the ?Forest Preserves?) recently concluded negotiations
for the sale of two Surplus Parcels that have been approved for sale by the State Legislature, Surplus Parcel 1,
consisting of approximately 0.49403 acres, and Surplus Parcel E, consisting of approximately 0.350 acres (the
?Surplus Parcels?). The Surplus Parcels are not contiguous with or connected to any other Preserves property. The
Surplus Parcels are in close proximity to each other and are both immediately adjacent to the Oak Park Country
Club in River Grove, Illinois.

During the mid-80?s, Preserves staff undertook a comprehensive study of all Preserves holdings, resulting in a list of
30 parcels being considered for disposal. Subsequently, the Preserves sought and obtained permission, on
9/23/1985 via Public Act 84?867, from the State Legislature to offer 27 of the 30 aforementioned parcels for sale,
including Surplus Parcel 1, with the monies to accrue to the Preserves? Real Estate Acquisition Fund. On 8/16/2001,
via Public Act 92-0403, the State Legislature authorized the sale of an additional 5 surplus parcels including Surplus
Parcel E.

The Village of Elmwood Park (the ?Buyer?), has agreed to buy the Surplus Parcels from the Preserves for the sum
of TWO HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS AND 00/100 The Preserves has obtained
M.A.I. certi?ed appraisals for each of the Surplus Parcels. The purchase price re?ects the combined purchase price
of the Surplus Parcels and is consistent with the appraisals received for those individual parcels.

District(s): 9
Legislative History 2/18/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Sale or Purchase

of Real Estate be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Murphy, Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri,
Steele and Suffredin and Tolbolski (10)

Absent: Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Gainer, Moore, Reyes, and Sims (7)

Page 2 of 4

14-0120

Presented by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT

Department: Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Other Part(ies): Forest Preserve District of Cook County and the Village of River Forest, Illinois
Request: Refer to the Forest Preserve Committee on Real Estate

Goods or Services: After ?nal review and approval as to form of such proposed Intergovernmental Agreement by
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County legal department, to allow the Village of River Forest (the ?Village?) to
install, operate, repair, and maintain an automatic traf?c law enforcement system.

Agreement Number(s): 
Agreement Period: one-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating

Accounts: 

Summary: The Village and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the ?Preserves?) wish to better ensure
the safety of pedestrians walking to and from their parks and headquarters located at Cummings Square, and in the
Spirit of intergovernmental cooperation, the District desires to grant the Village a revocable license to install,
operate, situate, locate, repair, and maintain an automated red light enforcement system (the ?System?) on the
District?s property located at the northwest corner of Lake and Harlem in River Forest, Illinois. The Village shall
be responsible for costs associated with the installation, operation, situation, repair, and maintenance of the System.
Pursuant to the proposed Intergovernmental License Agreement, the Preserves also desires to grant the Village a
revocable license to install, operate, and maintain utilities necessary for operation of the System.

Legislative History 2/18/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, that this

Intergovernmental Agreement be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Daley, Garcia, Silvestri, Steele and Tobolski (6)
Nay: Vice Chair Gorman, Commissioners Goslin, Schneider and Suffredin (4)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Collins, Fritchey, Gainer, Moore, Reyes, and Sims (7)

Page 3 of4

ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Steele The motion
carried and the meeting was adjourned.

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN

FILE ID 14-0104 Recommended for Approval
FILE ID 14-0120 Recommended for Approval

?gs

Respectfully submitted,

  

 

Chair nan /St[crelary

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s website on the Video Page at


Page 4 of 4

