REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TECHNOLOGY

February 28, 2011

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also
Present:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Fritchey, Vice Chairman Gorman, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia,
Schneider, Silvestri and Steele (8)

Commissioner Goslin (1)

Greg Wass Chief Information Officer, Cook County Bureau of Technology; John
Phillips Securus Technologies, Inc.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Technology of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Monday, February 28, 2011 at the hour of 11:30 AM. in the Board Room.
Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

310757

MICROSOFT PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT (PROPOSED CONTRACT).
Transmitting a Communication dated December 28, 2010 from Greg Wass, Chief
Information Officer, Bureau of Technology:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
MICROSOFT PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT, Dallas, Texas, for integration and
enhancement services to core Microsoft software infrastructure for Cook County.

Reason: Services are needed to establish a Microsoft development, test and
production environment. This integration will enhance Cook County's
core computer foundation and integrate previously installed software
systems such as Exchange, Microsoft SharePoint, System Center
Configuration Manager, and various application systems throughout
Cook County. This enhancement will allow for the configuration of
Unified Messaging and the creation of workflow processes and self
service portals that will generate process efficiencies.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $1,000,000.00. Contract period: February 1, 2011
through January 31, 2014. (717/023?441 Account). Requisition No. 10230002.

This item was included in the 2010 Capital Equipment Program approved by the
Board of Commissioners on November 19, 2009.

Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT

PAGE2

*Referred to the Committee on Technology on January 19, 2011.

Commissioner Silvestri inquired whether Greg Wass, Chief Information Officer, Cook County
Bureau of Technology, is in favor of this Item.

Mr. Wass replied in the affirmative, and noted that representatives from Microsoft Professional
Support were present and available for any questions the Commissioners might have.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved the approval of
Communication No. 310757. The motion carried.

310951

CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT, Dorothy Brown, transmitting a
Communication, dated January 6, 2011:

requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $129,600.00
from the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA). The funds will be
used to improve disposition reporting to Illinois State Police. This grant requires a
cash match or an in-kind match of a minimum of 20 percent to provide for the
additional funds for providing an overall method or system of correcting the
rejected postings from the Illinois State Police's Criminal History Record
Information (CHRI) system.

As the Clerk of the Circuit Court lacks an overall method or system of
correcting the rejected postings from the Illinois State Police?s CHRI system, 
is proposing to build an application that will process the rejected dispositions that
did not post to CHRI, provide a user interface to allow for updates to the
information contained in the Clerk?s disposition reporting, and to transmit that
information so that it successfully posts to CHRI. This solution will specifically
provide for:

Automating the interface of records that are pushed back to for
correction and resubmission to system for updating to and

Implementing improved data capture procedures (technical and
operational) that would facilitate complete arrest reporting, research
missing dispositions and information for reporting to ISP's system; and

Reengineering business processes that are impacted by the new
application build; and

Examining and improving data collection at critical points throughout the
justice process; and

Establishing more effective accuracy and information quality and auditable
controls; and

Reducing the backlog of missing disposition or related information.

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 28, 2011
PAGE 3

Additionally, the solution will have to examine the collection points of information
coming into the Circuit Court. There may be opportunities for improvements in
receiving critical data through an electronic exchange as opposed to many of
manual entry points that exist today. Lastly, will also add stakeholders to the
project as necessary, especially as it relates to agencies that are identified through
the data collection and exchange points, where improvements can be made in
ensuring accurate and complete information at its point of origin. Justice XML
standards will be used as appropriate.

Any and all contracts to be funded in whole, or in part. from the subiect qrant shall
be subiect to review by the Cook County Chief Information Officer and approyal by
the Board of Commissioners.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $32,400.00. (528?818 Account). Grant Award:
$129,600.00. Funding period: January 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012.

Sufficient funds are available in the Circuit Court Automation Fund.

The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the
fiscal impact on Cook County, if any.

*Referred to the Committee on Technology on February 1, 2011.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to adopt the
amendment to Communication No. 310951.

Commissioner Silvestri requested that, per Chairman Fritchey?s and Commissioner German's
request, he be added as a Sponsor to the above-mentioned Amendment, along with Chairman

Fritchey.

Commissioner Silvestri read the Amendment into the record.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved the approval of
Communication No. 310951 as amended. The motion carried.

311140

PRO-WEST ASSOCIATES, INC. (PROPOSED CONTRACT). Transmitting a
Communication, dated January 26, 2011 from Greg Wass, Chief Information
Officer, Bureau of Technology:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
PRO-WEST ASSOCIATES, INC., Walker, Minnesota, for application
development and automation of data that will coordinate business work flow
primarily between the offices of the Department of Building and Zoning and the
Zoning Board of Appeals.

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 28, 2011
PAGE 4

Reason: The objective of this project is to streamline workflows between
Building Zoning and the Zoning Board of Appeals. This project will
automate the process for handling requests for zoning changes and
permits, inventory of existing municipal zoning ordinances, creation of a
web-based application for municipalities to report zoning changes, and
the development of a countywide zoning permit application that is
integrated into the County?s enterprise GIS environment. Based on an
RFP for the selection of a vendor to develop a zoning workflow
management application and related services, award is being
recommended based on ProWest's technical solution, expertise and
ability to meet all of the County?s specifications.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $657,112.00. Contract period: March 1, 2011 through
July 31, 2012. (717/545?5753 Account). Requisition No. 15450002.

Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

*Referred to the Committee on Technology on February 15, 2011.

Commissioner Daley inquired whether Mr. Wass has any concerns regarding this Item.

Mr. Was replied that he is in support of this Item, and that it helps all of the municipalities as

well.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved the approval of
Communication No. 311140. The motion carried.

311141

SECURUS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. (PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT).
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 26, 2011 from Greg Wass, Chief
Information Officer, Bureau of Technology:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to amend Contract No. 08-45-
256 with SECURUS TECHNOLOGIES, INC., Dallas, Texas, for the Coinless
Inmate Public Pay Telephone Equipment and Services by adding coinless
telephone equipment and services to the Juvenile Detention Center facilities,
create inmate debit accounts, and implement a simplified rate structure.

Reason: Juvenile Facility Project Securus will provide the
equipment/Applications in connection with the Secure Call Platform
(SCP) services needed to support the required number and type of
phones and other components and storage. Inmate Debit Accounts 
Upon the successful implementation of Voice Biometrics, it is the
County's intent to install Debit accounts. This allows the inmates to call
anyone and provides inmates the option of immediately paying for and
making calls. Secure pins will be provide for easy investigation of calls
and complaints, it enhances reporting capabilities and reduces
administrative costs. Simplified Rates rates at Cook County
today are based on rates that were previously in place. The
current structure is extremely complicated for inmates and their
families. A simplified rate plan will reduce complaints, reduce fraud,

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 28, 2011
PAGES

eliminates the need to use illegal remote call forwarding services and
increase County revenues by an estimated $623,000.00 annually.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract period: December 1, 2007 through
November 30, 2012.

*Referred to the Committee on Technology on February 15, 2011.
Commissioner Steele inquired who is the minority or women vendor on this Item.

In response, Mr. Wass requested that a representative from Securus Technologies, Inc.
address this question.

John Phillips of Securus Technologies, Inc. stated that an entity entitled ?Informity" is the m/wbe
vendor on this Item.

Chairman Fritchey inquired whether this entity is certified as such.

IVlr. Phillips replied in the affirmative.

Commissioner Beavers inquired what, exactly, Informity does as a company.

Mr. Phillips replied that they provide support services at the Cook County Jail, such as the
installation and maintenance of the phones, the general help desk, and all associated local
suppon.

Commissioner Beavers inquired what percentage of this entity is minority.

Mr. Phillips replied 33.5% of the profit margin.

Commissioner Daley inquired whether Mr. Wass supports this item.

Mr. Wass replied in the affirmative.

Commissioner Beavers requested that Mr. Wass, in the future, note for the Commissioners
whether an entity is in compliance with the m/wbe ordinance.

Mr. Wass replied that he would do this.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved the approval of
Communication No. 311141. The motion carried.

Chairman Fritchey asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Steele moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Silvestri. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT

PAGEG

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 310757 Approved
Communication Number 310951 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 311140 Approved
Communication Number 311141 Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Technology

 

$23 

/Mah?hew B. DeLeon, Secretary

*An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

