MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
April 19, 2012
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, April 19, 2012 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois at 10:20 A.M. Present
were the following: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Maribeth Vander Weele, Michael
Holewinski and Lee Gould.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of March 15, 2012. Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
ADMINISTRATOR’S COMMENTS
Administrator Ostrowski commented on the grand opening of Paula Deen’s Kitchen at the
Harrah’s Joliet property.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. – Peter W. Schmidt, MIS Manager – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board approve Peter W. Schmidt as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of MIS Manager for Hollywood Casino Aurora, Inc. Member Gould
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a Grand Victoria Casino – Frank P. Prill, Director of
Table Game Operations – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Welle moved that
the Board approve Frank P. Prill as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Director of Table Game Operations for Elgin Riverboat Resort d/b/a
Grand Victoria Casino. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines – Floyd
L. Rosamond, Director of Information Technology – Level One

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board approve Floyd L. Rosamond as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Director of Information Technology for Midwest Gaming &
Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino – Des Plaines. Member Vander Weele
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel
and Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis
Casino – Daniel G. Buchholz, Audit Manager & Internal Audit Manager – Level
One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski move that the
Board approve Daniel G. Buchholz as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Audit Manager for Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a
Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel and in the position of Internal Audit Manager at
Southern Illinois Riverboat Casino Cruises, Inc. d/b/a Harrah’s Metropolis Casino.
Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel
– Matthew A. Pariso, Staff Internal Auditor – Level One
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board approve Matthew A. Pariso as an Occupational Licensee Level One in the
position of Staff Internal Auditor for Des Plaines Development Limited Partnership
d/b/a Harrah’s Joliet Casino & Hotel. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2s & 3s
●

Licensure and Denial, Levels 2 and 3
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board find suitable and approve 58 applications for an Occupational License, Level
2 and 180 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3. He further moved that
the Administrator issue a Notice of Denial to the following individuals:
•
•
•
•
•

David M. Fisher;
Michael T. Mesaris;
Lynn M. Mosier;
Kelly L. White; and
Desland M. Wilcoxon.

Member Holewinski seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.

2

 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
●

Venus M. Armstrong and John J. Ramirez – Occupational Licensees
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Holewinski moved that the
Board issue Disciplinary Complaints against Venus M. Armstrong and John J.
Ramirez for failing to disclose all material changes in information to the Board and
that the Board revoke the occupational licenses of these individuals, said actions to
take effect twenty-one (21) days from the dates of service of the Complaints unless
the Licensees file Answers to the Complaints or pay fines within that time period.
Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.

●

Christian L. Bjelle – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Vander Weele moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Christian L. Bjelle for his failure
to disclose all material changes in information to the Board and his failure to
comply with an Order of the Board. She further moved that the Board revoke
Christian L. Bjelle’s Occupational License, said action to take effect twenty-one (21)
days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the Licensee files an Answer
within that time period. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Simone N. Remmer – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Gould moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Simone N. Remmer due to her
violation of Rivers’ found money policy. He further moved that the Board revoke
Simone N. Remmer’s Occupational License, said action to take effect twenty-one
(21) days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the Licensee files an
Answer within that time period. Member Vander Weele seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 10:36 A.M. Member Holewinski motioned to adjourn and Member Vander Weele seconded
the motion. All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,

Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 