POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners

County Board Room, County Building

Wednesday, February 6, 2008 10:00 A.M.

ATTENDANCE
Present:

President Stroger and Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins,
Daley, Goslin, Gorman, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica,
Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (15)

Absent:

Commissioners Beavers and Suffredin (2)

(Matters referred to Committee are available from the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners)

 POST BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Wednesday, February 6, 2008, 10:00 A.M.
****************************

PRESIDENT
REAPPOINTMENTS
ITEM #1
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Ellis A. Flaws to the Crawford Countryside Sanitary District for a term to begin
immediately and expire on May 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #2
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Joseph Ford to the South Stickney Sanitary District for a term to begin immediately
and expire on December 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #3
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Edward Provost to the Central Stickney Sanitary District for a term to begin
immediately and expire on May 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #4
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Patrick McCool to the South Cook County Mosquito Abatement District for a term to
begin immediately and expire on December 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *

 page 2
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
REAPPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #5
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Charles Givens to the South Cook County Mosquito Abatement District for a term to
begin immediately and expire on December 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #6
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Carol L. Blustein to the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District for a term to begin
immediately and expire on December 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #7
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint Nelson Howard to the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District for a term to begin
immediately and expire on December 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.
* * * * *
ITEM #8
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
I hereby reappoint John Zbesko to the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District for a term to begin
immediately and expire on December 1, 2010.
I submit this communication for your approval.

 page 3
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
AGREEMENT
ITEM #9
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 30, 2008 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Re: Joint Purchasing Agreement for Independent Inspector General Search
The Office of the President is hereby requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into and
execute a Joint Purchasing Agreement for a professional services contract with David Gomez &
Associates, Inc. (“DGA”), Chicago, Illinois, in order to provide national executive search and consulting
services for the Independent Inspector General (“IIG”) search.
DGA is a Chicago-based national management consulting and executive search firm which is under
contract with the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority for executive search services and has
assisted the City of Chicago in the city’s recent reorganization of the Chicago Department of Human
Resources, wherein the city hired forty-three (43) director level employees; and, DGA assisted the city in
its recent search of the Superintendent of the Department of Police. Additionally, the City of Chicago
recently entered into an exclusive five (5) year master agreement with DGA for executive search services.
DGA will serve as a collaborative advisor to the Cook County Bar/Chicago Bar IIG Search Committee
(“Joint Search Committee”) and ensure a comprehensive and objective search process in an effort to
produce candidates for the position of IIG who are most qualified and truly independent.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: 1/3 of 1st Year Salary of Independent Inspector General; $50,000.00. Contract
period: February 1, 2008 through January 31, 2009. (490-260 Account). Requisition No. 84900050.

LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT REGARDING THE POSITION OF
CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
ITEM #10
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 31, 2008 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
As you know, prior to being sworn into Office in December of 2006, I stood along side President Bobbie
Steele and Michael Shakman in order to show my support for the Supplemental Relief Order (“SRO”)
that was being executed by the County. In addition to my presence on the date of the passage of the SRO,
I further attended this meeting to show my support for the Ordinance amendment requiring the
prohibition of unlawful political discrimination.
Since being sworn in as President, I have further supported the principles and requirements of the SRO by
addressing the prohibition of unlawful political discrimination during televised Board Meetings and
Bureau Chief/Department meetings; furthermore, I have instructed my staff to address the principles and
requirements addressed in County Ordinances as well as the SRO to County employees through training
sessions, notices and postings on the County’s web-site. I have supported the efforts of the Compliance
Administrator and will continue to be supportive of efforts addressed in the SRO.
I have been advised that the Compliance Administrator has provided you with correspondence regarding
her request to participate in this Administration’s search for a permanent Human Resources Chief. I
wanted to take this opportunity to advise you regarding the steps this Office has taken in the search for a
permanent Human Resource Chief and the role requested of Ms. Nowicki, as advised by the State’s
Attorneys Office.

 page 4
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT REGARDING THE POSITION OF
CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
ITEM #10 cont’d
In addition to personally meeting with Ms. Nowicki, on December 21, 2007 Ms. Nowicki was informed
in writing regarding the steps this Office has begun in its search for a permanent Human Resource Chief.
Ms. Nowicki was informed that a search for a permanent Human Resource Chief was publicly advertised
on the internet and that this Office had received over 65 resumes.
The notice of job opportunity was advertised indicating that the County was seeking a HR Chief with
superior interpersonal skills, a Bachelor’s Degree, Masters Degree preferred, 5-10 years Human Resource
experience and union labor and union contract negotiation experience.
In addition to the above, I have directed my staff to form a Committee that will be responsible for
reviewing the resumes that I have received and for that Committee to recommend three candidates for my
review and interview. The Committee shall consist of internal representation as well as employment
lawyers and human resource professionals. Should the Committee fail to recommend suitable candidates
for review, I may consider further recruitment options.
I have communicated to Ms. Nowicki that I would like for her to meet the members of the Committee
when finalized and speak with them regarding the principles of the SRO, the importance of the HR Chief
position as it relates to compliance with the SRO and the prohibition of unlawful political discrimination.
In addition to her presentation to the Committee, I have asked Laura Lechowicz Felicione, an internal
member of the Committee, to advise the Committee regarding the requirements of the SRO, the County’s
position on the prohibition of unlawful political discrimination, the current climate within the County and
the qualifications/characteristics needed for the HR Chief.
It is important for this Board to know what has been communicated to the Compliance Administrator by
this Office with the advice of Counsel and the steps that this Office has taken to obtain a highly qualified
candidate for position of Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources.

STATUS OF MARKETING EFFORTS FOR THE SALE OF EXCESS LAND
ITEM #11
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 30, 2008 from
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
requesting permission to discuss with the Board of Commissioners the status of marketing efforts for the
sale of excess land at the Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County Campus.
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #12
APPROVED
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT AND WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners

 page 5
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #12 cont’d
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom has called home John H. Stroger, Jr., the first
African-American to be elected President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners; and
WHEREAS, John Stroger was born in Helena, Arkansas on May 19, 1929 to John and Ella Stroger who
raised him during the Great Depression, instilling in him a strong work ethic and a moral sense of duty
and honor, allowing him to achieve academic success as a graduate of Xavier University in Louisiana;
and
WHEREAS, opportunities for professional advancement and personal success led John Stroger to come
to Chicago in 1953 and join Ralph Metcalfe’s Third Ward Regular Democratic Organization, a turn of
events which would impact the lives of millions; and
WHEREAS, in 1959 John Stroger would marry the love of his life, Yonnie, as the two of them started to
raise a family of their own, their daughter Yonnie Lynn and their sons Hans and Todd; and
WHEREAS, with the support of his family, John Stroger attended DePaul University College of Law and
earned his law degree in 1965 all while working full time; and
WHEREAS, John Stroger set out to make his own mark in Cook County Democratic Party politics by
becoming the first African-American Committeeman of the Eighth Ward in 1968, and he would begin to
make his mark in County government after his 1970 election to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and
WHEREAS, as Commissioner, John Stroger developed an unmatched knowledge and leadership of
County Government through his Chairmanship of every major Board Committee, his ascendancy to the
Chairmanship of the powerful Finance Committee and his election to the presidency of the National
Association of Counties; and
WHEREAS, John and Yonnie Stroger, devoted parents to all three of their children, were forced to
endure the tragic death of their son Hans in 1982, a dark time which would deepen John Stroger’s faith
and draw him even closer to his family; and
WHEREAS, his personal courage, political strength and professional success developed through both
triumph and tragedy would reinforce John Stroger’s conviction that he could bring positive change to the
lives of those around him, especially those served by Cook County Government; and
WHEREAS, in 1994 John H. Stroger, Jr. was elected President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, where he would serve for 12 years, a validation of the long hard fight President Stroger
waged to build a quality health care system which would serve the residents of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the lasting political and governmental legacy of President Stroger was his ability to focus
the County on an essential goal, the construction of a new Cook County Hospital which now bears his
name, and to have the political will to get done what was needed to bring quality health care to all; and
WHEREAS, those who remember John Stroger and take him to his rest today think not only of his
service to his County, but also think of the warm handshake, the loud reprimand or the gentle
encouragement; the concern he showed for our families, our neighbors and our futures; we remember the
open door to his office, his love of history, his loyalty to his party and to his friends and the love he had
for his wife, his children, his grandchildren and his entire family; we shall always cherish his almost
always ready smile and his hearty laugh which would fill the room with sound and easily disarm the most
vociferous of opponents; and
WHEREAS, we recall the words of the past few days of those who shared their remembrances of
President John Stroger: that “he treated everyone the same”; “everyone was important”; that “once he
gave you his word, he was there”; that he “changed the lives” of everyday residents throughout Cook
County; that he cared for the “little man”; that his politics were “never about being mean”; that he
provided thousands with the opportunity to excel and succeed; and that he fought for so many who may
not have been able to fight their fights alone.

 page 6
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

PRESIDENT continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #12 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners on behalf
of the residents of Cook County acknowledge the immense contributions of a political pioneer, a genuine
public servant, a loving father, grandfather, and uncle who was our friend and our colleague; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be presented to the family of
President John H. Stroger, Jr. in honor of his good works and great deeds over a lifetime of service to the
five and a half million residents of Cook County.
* * * * *
ITEM #13
APPROVED
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His Infinite Wisdom has called The Honorable Eugene Sawyer from our
midst; and
WHEREAS, beginning as a chemist working in Chicago’s Water Filtration Plant and active in Chicago’s
6th Ward Democratic Organization, Mr. Sawyer rose to become an alderman, a position he fulfilled with
distinction for 17 years; and
WHEREAS, in the historic days following the death of Mayor Harold Washington, as a political
maelstrom roiled and raged on, Mr. Sawyer was voted in as Acting Mayor, becoming Chicago’s second
African-American Mayor; and
WHEREAS, during this period of extreme divisiveness, Mr. Sawyer was a man of calm and reason, and
served as a bridge in the forging of compromises necessary for City Hall to serve its constituents; and
WHEREAS, in his position as Mayor, Mr. Sawyer proved to be a dedicated and highly effective public
servant of quiet resolve; during his administration a number of progressive reforms were passed,
including ethics reform and the historic Human Rights Ordinance, which had languished in the City
Council for years and which protected gays, lesbians and bisexuals from discrimination in the areas of
employment, housing, and public accommodations; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Sawyer helped to further heal Chicago’s political divide by continuing Mayor
Washington’s legacy of open and transparent government; and
WHEREAS, in losing Mayor Sawyer we have lost an honorable, humble, and thoughtful leader who
loved and served the City of Chicago and its people with devotion.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Mayor Sawyer’s memory shall be cherished in all of
the hearts of the people he touched and loved; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, on behalf of the more
than five million residents of Cook County, does hereby express its deepest condolences and most
heartfelt sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Mayor Eugene Sawyer.

 page 7
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS
ITEM #14
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County Commissioners
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, VITAL RECORDS FEE ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the Cook County Clerk maintains marriage, birth and death records for Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Section 25 of the Vital Records Act allows the County Clerk to collect a fee for copies of
records equal to the fees collected by the Illinois Department of Public Health; and
WHEREAS, certain records of genealogical interest are available to the general public, i.e., marriage
records older than 50 years, birth records older than 75 years and death records older than 20 years; and
WHEREAS, the Vital Records Department of the Cook County Clerk has been engaged in a project to
improve the public’s access to genealogical records by digitizing these records; and
WHEREAS, the digitization of genealogical records will provide quicker access to them and reduce the
burden of research on those requesting the documents.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Section 2-174 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-174.

Vital records fees for County Clerk.

(a)
Birth records. The Cook County Clerk shall continue to charge and collect a fee for the first
copy, and a fee for each additional copy of a birth record as set out in Section 32-1.
(b)
Marriage records. The Cook County Clerk shall continue to charge and collect a fee for the first
copy, and a fee for each additional copy of a marriage record as set out in Section 32-1.
(c)
Death records. The Cook County Clerk shall charge and collect a fee for the first copy, and a fee
for each additional copy of a death record as set out in Section 32-1.
(d)
Genealogical records. The County Clerk shall charge and collect a fee as set out in Section 32-1
for the first copy and a fee as set out in Section 32-1 for subsequent copies of any genealogical birth,
death or marriage certificate.
(e)
Emergency fee. The County Clerk shall charge and collect an emergency fee as set out in Section
32-1 for providing a copy of a vital record on an overnight basis. The emergency fee authorized in this
subsection shall be in addition to any other fees authorized to be collected by the County Clerk for
providing the requested document.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that the fee increase imposed herein shall be reflected in a
corresponding projection of annual revenue, as stated by the Cook County Clerk. In the event of a
shortfall between the estimated annual revenue, and the actual annual revenue collected from the fees, the
amount of the shortfall shall be imposed as a reduction in the annual appropriation for the operating
budget of the Cook County Clerk; and
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 32 Fees,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

 page 8
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #14 cont’d
Sec. 32-1.

Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown below:
TABLE INSET:
Code Section

Fees, Rates,
Charges
(in dollars)

Description

CHAPTER 2, ADMINISTRATION
2-174

Vital records:

2-174(a)

Birth records, first copy

13.00 15.00

Each additional copy

2.00 3.00 4.00

Marriage records, first copy

13.00 15.00

Each additional copy

2.00 3.00 4.00

Death records, first copy

13.00 15.00

Each additional copy

4.00

Genealogical birth, death or marriage certificate, first copy

15.00

Subsequent copies, per copy

2.00 3.00 4.00

Emergency vital records, on an overnight basis

25.00

2-174(b)

2-174(c)

2-174(d)

2-174(e)

* * * * *
ITEM #15
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE #292095
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO and ROBERTO MALDONADO, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
WHEEL TAX ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Sections
74-550 through 74-569 of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-550.

Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Wheel Tax on Motor Vehicles
Ordinance".
Sec. 74-551.

Definitions.

For the purposes of this article the following terms are defined as follows:
Bus means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and used for the
transportation of persons.
Larger passenger automobile means a passenger automobile with a curb weight of at least 4,500
pounds, as determined by the vehicle's manufacturer. Ambulances and hearses of more than 35
horsepower are incorporated in the definition of larger passenger automobile.

 page 9
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
Moped means a vehicle capable of being powered by either the muscular power of man or as a
motor vehicle at the discretion of the operator. For the purpose of licensing, a moped shall be licensed as
a motor vehicle.
Motor truck means a motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation
of property.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle including motor bicycle or motor tricycle propelled otherwise
than by the muscular power of man or animal, except such as run on rails or tracks.
Owner includes a lessee, licensee, or bailee of a motor vehicle having the exclusive use thereof,
under a lease or other similar contractual agreement for a period of not less than 30 days.
Recreational vehicle means every motor vehicle originally designed or permanently converted
and used for living quarters or for human habitation, a motor home and not used as a commercial motor
vehicle.
Residing within the unincorporated area of Cook County means owning, leasing, or otherwise
the controlling of property or a place of business wherein motor vehicles, trailers, or semi trailers are
stored, repaired, serviced, loaded or unloaded within the unincorporated area of Cook County in
connection with such business.
Semi trailer means a vehicle designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
Smaller passenger automobile means a passenger automobile with a curb weight of less than
4,500 pounds, as determined by the vehicle's manufacturer.
Tractor means any motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not
so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
Trailer means a vehicle designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
Sec. 74-552.

License requirement.

It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle owner residing within the unincorporated area of Cook
County to own, possess, use, or to cause or permit any of his agents, employees, lessees, or bailees to use
any motor vehicle upon the unincorporated area of within Cook County, unless such vehicle be licensed
as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 74-553.

Application.

Any person desiring a license for any such motor vehicle or other vehicle shall file an application
with the Department of Revenue (Department) in the Bureau of Finance, upon a form provided therefore,
which shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, a description of the vehicle for which the
license is desired, the place where the same is to be kept when not in use, the number and kinds of other
vehicles kept by the said applicant at such place, and in the case of an application for a license for a motor
vehicle, for what purpose the same is to be used, and such other information as may be prescribed.

 page 10
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
Sec. 74-554. Exemptions.
All vehicles owned and operated upon the public ways of the unincorporated area of Cook
County by the United States Government or any agency thereof, or by the State of Illinois or any
department thereof, or by any political subdivision, public or municipal corporation of the State of Illinois
or any department or other agency of such corporation, or by a nonprofit organization as defined by
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, such as the American Red Cross, and all
buses owned and operated by churches in conjunction with the authorized activities of said institutions
under Section 3-616 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, shall be exempt from the vehicle tax. Every exempt
vehicle, except those vehicles owned by the County of Cook which are used by said government agencies
in confidential or undercover investigatory services or by an officer of any said agencies as the officer's
official car shall have the name of the owner painted in letters at least one and one-half inches in length in
a conspicuous place on the outside of each side of the vehicle; provided that in lieu of such identification
every vehicle which is exempt from payment of the state motor vehicle registration fee, shall have a
license plate or emblem as provided in Sections 74-556 and 74-560 herein and every vehicle owned by
the United States Government or any agency thereof, which is not identified as required in this article,
shall have such license plate or emblem. All license plates or emblems for vehicles exempt from payment
of the vehicle tax (a "Z" emblem) shall be furnished by the Department at no charge.
Sec. 74-555.

Issuance.

Upon the payment by the applicant of the license fee hereinafter provided, the County shall issue,
or cause to be issued, a license authorizing the use of such vehicle within the unincorporated area of Cook
County.
Sec. 74-556.

Fees.

Annual license fees shall be as set out in Section 32-1.
(1)

A self propelled vehicle operated as a tractor and one semi trailer shall be considered as one
vehicle in computing the license fees, and no additional license fee shall be required for the
semi trailer so used.

(2)

The owner of each vehicle who has elected to pay a mileage tax to the State of Illinois shall
be required to be licensed as this article provides.

(3)

A semi trailer used with any device for attaching it to a motor vehicle, a trailer, or other
semi trailer, shall be licensed as a trailer.

(4)

All equipment mounted on wheels for transportation and attached to any motor vehicle or
leading semi trailer or trailer, using the public ways of the unincorporated area of Cook
County, shall be licensed hereunder as trailers.

(5)

If any such vehicle has been purchased or lawfully acquired by the applicant on or after
December 1 of any current year, the fee to be paid shall be a sum equal to one-half of the
annual license fee, specified in Section 32-1, as a license fee for the balance of such year.
Before any applicant shall be entitled to a prorated license as provided for in this section,
the applicant shall furnish an affidavit in a form satisfactory to the Department stating that
the vehicle for which the license is applied for was purchased or otherwise obtained by the
applicant on or after December 1 of the current year, and shall exhibit to the Department
the bill of sale covering the vehicle for which the license is sought.

 page 11
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
Sec. 74-557.

Persons over age 65.

License fees for motor vehicles in Classes XSV and XLV, excluding ambulances and hearses,
owned by persons 65 years of age and older shall, upon satisfactory proof of age, be charged a one-time
fee of $5.00 for the duration of the ownership of such vehicle. Such discount is limited to two cars owned
by the same owner.
Sec. 74-558.

Effective dates.

This article shall be effective on January 1, 2006 upon becoming law, and thereafter.
Sec. 74-559.

Annual license.

(a) [License to be displayed.] Annual licenses must be displayed by July 1. Said licenses shall
be valid until June 30 in the following year.
(b) New residents. Within 60 days of taking up residence within the unincorporated area of Cook
County, a current Cook County Vehicle License must be displayed on the owner's vehicle.
(c) Newly acquired vehicles. For any new or used vehicle purchased or acquired after July 1, a
valid Cook County Vehicle License must be displayed within 30 days of the date of acquisition.
Sec. 74-560.

Motor bicycle plate.

(a) The Department shall deliver to the holder of a license for a motor bicycle, motor tricycle, or
trailer, a metal plate or other license emblem which shall bear the word "Cook County" and a number
identical with the number of the license, the name of the class to which such vehicle belongs, and the year
for which such license is issued.
(b) When such metal plate or other license emblem is delivered to the holder of a license for a
motor bicycle, motor tricycle, or trailer, it shall be the duty of such licensee to affix such plate or other
license emblem in a conspicuous position so that the plate or other license emblem can be easily seen
upon the rear end of such motor bicycle, motor tricycle, or trailer.
Sec. 74-561.

Window sticker.

(a) Except for those who receive a sticker under Section 74-557 of this article, the Department
shall deliver to the holder of any license for any automobile, motor truck, motor ambulance or hearse,
motor coach or motor bus, a sticker license emblem, which shall bear the words "Vehicle Sticker" and
"County of Cook" and the numerals designating the year for which such license is issued, the name of the
County Board President, and a number identical with the number of such license.
(b) Such sticker emblem shall be affixed, in accordance with the instructions printed thereon
which are made a part hereof, and without the use of supplemental adhesives, at the lower right-hand
corner of the inside of the glass portion of the windshield of such motor vehicle, approximately one inch
from the right-hand lower sections of the frame of such windshield.
(c) The Department shall change annually the predominant background colors of such sticker
emblems.
(d) The Department shall deliver to the holder of any license issued under Section 74-557 of this
article a sticker license emblem which shall bear the words "Vehicle Sticker" and "County of Cook", the
name of the County Board President, and a number identical with the number of such license.

 page 12
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
Sec. 74-562.

Removal upon sale.

(a) Immediately upon the sale of any vehicle licensed under this article, when such sale is made
prior to the date of expiration of such license, the vendor shall remove the license tag, plate, transparent
sticker, or other license emblem from the vehicle so sold.
(b) Except where a vehicle has been regularly transferred as hereinafter provided in Section 74564 herein, it shall be the duty of the purchaser of any used automobile or other vehicle to remove and
deliver to the vendor or the vendor's agent immediately any license tag, plate, transparent sticker or other
license emblem which may be attached to such vehicle at the time of the purchase thereof, when the
vendor of such vehicle may have refused, failed or omitted to detach from such vehicle as hereinafter
required. It shall be unlawful for any such purchaser to use, sell or offer sale such used automobile or
other vehicle without first having removed all license tags, plates, transparent stickers or other license
emblems.
Sec. 74-563.

Unlawful use on another vehicle.

It shall be unlawful for any person to affix or cause to be affixed any license tag, plate,
transparent sticker or other license emblem to any automobile or other vehicle other than the vehicle to
which such license tag, plate, transparent sticker or other license emblem was intended to be affixed at the
time of the issuance thereof by the Department.
Sec. 74-564.

Transfer.

(a) Whenever the owner of any vehicle licensed under this article, before the expiration of such
license, sells or otherwise disposes of such vehicle, and thereafter acquires another vehicle and desires to
transfer the vehicle license originally issued for the vehicle disposed of to such newly-acquired vehicle,
such owner shall immediately make application to the Department for a transfer of said vehicle license to
the newly-purchased vehicle. Said application shall state the name and address of the licensee and the
name and address of the purchaser of said vehicle, together with a description of the newly-purchased
vehicle. Upon surrender of the original license and transparent sticker or vehicle tag in case a metal tag
has been issued, or upon proof that the transparent sticker or plate has been destroyed, the Department
shall transfer said license to apply to the new-acquired vehicle upon payment of the proper license fee of
$10.00, provided, that the Department shall not transfer any license where the transparent sticker emblem
issued under said license is defaced or mutilated so as to prevent identification of the emblem. It shall be
unlawful for any person to displace a transparent sticker emblem on any vehicle other than the vehicle for
which the emblem was originally issued, without first transferring the license to such other vehicle, as
provided herein.
(b) The owner of any vehicle licensed under this article shall promptly notify the Department
whenever the transparent sticker emblem issued under such license is lost, stolen or destroyed. A
duplicate transparent sticker may be purchased from the Department for $20.00.
Sec, 74-565.

Dealer license.

(a) If any manufacturer or dealer of any of the motor vehicles mentioned in this article shall
make application to the Department and shall state that the manufacturer or dealer is a manufacturer
operating a plant for the construction of motor vehicles within the unincorporated area of Cook County,
or a dealer in such motor vehicles with a salesroom located within the unincorporated area of Cook
County, and desires a license emblem to be used by the dealer or manufacturer, the Department shall
upon payment by such applicant of the fee hereinafter set for to such manufacturer or dealer a distinctive
license plate or transparent sticker license emblem with a number thereon. Said emblem must be attached
to or borne by any such motor vehicles while being operated on the streets of the unincorporated area of
Cook County. When any such vehicle is in use and carries such license plate or transparent sticker license
emblem, no other license fee shall be collected under the provision of this article.
(b) The annual license fee to be paid for each such license plate or transparent sticker license
emblem shall be $20.00, and said fee shall not be prorated.

 page 13
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
(c) Every manufacturer or dealer applying for said plates or transparent sticker license emblems
must submit to the Department satisfactory proof of the person's status as such manufacturer or dealer and
satisfactory proof of the number of sets of dealer's plates issued to the application by the State of Illinois;
provided that no license plates or transparent sticker license emblems shall be issued under this article
unless the applicant is in possession of an Illinois dealer's license for the current year. The total number of
license plates and transparent sticker license emblems that may be obtained under this article shall not
exceed the number of sets of dealer's license plates issued to the applicant by the State.
(d) No such license, plate or emblem shall be used on any motor vehicle rented by such
manufacturer or dealer, or on any vehicle used to transport persons or property for hire, or on any vehicle
unless such vehicle is operated under a dealer's license issued by the State of Illinois and to which both
State license plates are attached.
Sec. 74-566.

Business vehicle identification.

It shall be unlawful for any person to use or to cause or permit any of a person's employees to use
any motor vehicle, or other vehicle, in the transportation of property upon the public ways of the
unincorporated area of Cook County unless such vehicle shall have the name and address of the owner
thereof, and a serial number distinguishing said vehicle from any other vehicle controlled or used by the
same person plainly painted, in the letters at least one and one-half inches in length, in a conspicuous
place on the outside of such vehicle, provided that any such person using and operating in the
unincorporated area of Cook County more than five such vehicles may cause such name and serial
number to be painted on each vehicle as foresaid in letter not less than three inches in length and omit
there from the address of such person; provided, further, that in event if such vehicle is used or operated
continuously by a lessee or bailee or other person having complete control over such vehicle, instead of
the owner thereof, the name and address and serial number or name and serial number, as the case may
be, of such lessee, bailee or other person using and operating said vehicle may be used as if the person
were the owner thereof. Such name, address and serial number, or name and serial number, as the case
may be, shall be kept so painted, plainly and distinctly, at all times while such vehicle is in use on the
public ways of the unincorporated area of Cook County. This section shall not be construed as applying to
any motor vehicle, or other vehicle which is used exclusively for noncommercial purposes.
Sec. 74-567.

Right to inspect.

The Cook County Sheriff's Police are hereby authorized to issue citations to any vehicle
registered to an address in unincorporated Cook County on the public way in unincorporated Cook
County that is not displaying a Cook County vehicle sticker and furthermore, officers of the Cook County
Sheriff's Police shall have the authority to enter the following places for purposes of ascertaining whether
vehicles parked therein are in compliance with this article and issue citations accordingly:
(1)

Any parking lot that is open to pedestrian traffic.

Nothing in this section authorizes any officer to force, break, or remove any lock or door in order
to gain entry to any of the foregoing places.
Sec. 74-568.

Penalty for ordinance violation.

(a) Late fee. Any owner as defined in Section 74-551 or 74-552 who purchases a license after
July 1 or other due date as defined in Section 74-559(b) or (c) shall pay a late fee penalty equal to the
amount due for the license fee but not less than $25.00 per license, whichever is more. Persons over age
65, physically handicapped individuals, or disabled veterans shall not be charged more than $25.00 for a
late fee.
(b) Back dated fees. Any person or motor vehicle as defined in Section 74-551 or 74-552 who
did not purchase a license after the effective date may be required to pay the entire amount of fees due for
each of the prior three years that the fee had not been paid.
(c) Penalty for failure to properly display sticker or unlawful use of sticker on another vehicle.
Any owner, driver or motor vehicle in violation of these provisions requiring a license shall be fined not
less than $75.00 per offense nor more than $150.00 per offense.

 page 14
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
(d) Purchase of a license after the due date. Purchase of a license after the due date shall not
result in an order of compliance discharge or a finding of not guilty by any court or administrative hearing
and penalties and fines, contained herein shall be mandatory.
Sec. 74-569.

Penalty for unlawful removal.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in 50 ILCS 45/80, any person who shall take, destroy, remove,
or obliterate any license tag, plate or emblem provided for in this article, without the consent of the owner
of the vehicle, shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. Every such
wrongful destruction, obliteration or removal of such license tag, plate or emblem from any vehicle shall
be considered a separate offense.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in 50 ILCS 45/80, any person violating any provision of this
article where the penalty is not otherwise herein provided for shall be fined not less than $50.00 dollars
nor more than $200.00 for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be considered as committed
for each and every day any wagon or vehicle is used upon the public ways of the unincorporated area of
Cook County without having procured a license and without having complied with the provisions of this
article.
(c) The license and fees herein imposed is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the
Government of the United States, the State of Illinois or by any unit of local government.
Sec. 74-570.

Deposit of Funds

Sixty percent of the revenue generated from the imposition of the tax under this Ordinance,
including penalties and interest, shall be paid in to the Cook County Health Fund and be used solely to
fund the Cook County Bureau of Health Services.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1.
Fee schedule.
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown below:
74-556

Fee schedule (wheel tax):
Annual
License Fee
(in dollars)

Class
MOTOR VEHICLES
MB

Motor bicycles or motor tricycles

25.00

XSV

Smaller passenger vehicles with a curb weight under 4,500
pounds

40.00

Larger passenger vehicles with a curb weight of at least 4,500
pounds and hearses, ambulances, and privately owned,
noncommercial motorized vacation camper or other motorized
recreation vehicle

50.00

PH

Physically handicapped individuals (requires proof of
registration with State of Illinois under 625 ILCS 5/3-616

No Fee

DV

Disabled veterans (requires proof of service connected
disability)

No Fee

XLV

 page 15
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #15 cont’d
Annual
License Fee
(in dollars)

Class

Z

School, church and nonprofit buses (as defined in Section 74554)

No Fee

M

Municipally owned vehicles

No Fee

SB

Privately owned school buses

15.00

RECREATIONAL TRAILERS
RT

All noncommercial recreational trailers, including boat
trailers, snowmobile trailers, horse trailers, camping trailers
and other noncommercial, nonmotorized recreational trailers

30.00

COMMERCIAL TRAILERS
CT

All commercial trailers regardless of gross weight in pounds
of vehicle plus its maximum load

75.00

MOTOR TRUCKS, TRACTOR-SEMI TRAILER UNITS
AND MOTOR BUSES
(Gross weight in pounds of vehicle plus its maximum load)
A

Up to 10,000 lbs.

50.00 180.00

B

10,001 to 20,000 lbs.

75.00 180.00

C

20,001 to 36,000 lbs. (2 or more axles)

90.00 420.00

D

36,001 to 50,000 lbs. (3 or more axles)

100.00 420.00

E

50,001 to 75,000 lbs. (4 or more axles)

115.00 420.00
Fees, Rates,
Charges
(in dollars)

Code Section

Description

74-557

License fees for motor vehicles in Classes XSV and XLV, excluding
ambulances and hearses, owned by persons 65 years of age and older
shall, upon satisfactory proof of age, be charged a one-time fee for
the duration of the ownership of such vehicle. Such discount is
limited to two cars owned by the same owner

74-565(b)

Annual license fee for dealer license plate or transparent sticker
license emblem, each plate or emblem

5.00

20.00

* * * * *
ITEM #16
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON RULES & ADMINISTRATION #292096
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, FORREST CLAYPOOL, MIKE QUIGLEY and, ROBERTO MALDONADO
and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County Commissioners

 page 16
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS continued
ITEM #16 cont’d
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 44 Human Resources,
Section 44-45, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 44-45. Bureau of Human Resources.
(a) Established; Chief of Human Resources to be Chief Executive Officer of the Bureau of
Human Resources. There is hereby established a bureau which shall be known as the Bureau of Human
Resources. The Chief of Human Resources shall be the chief executive officer of the Bureau of Human
Resources and shall be a person with at least ten to fifteen years of experience as a Human Resources
executive of an institution with a minimum of 10,000 employees. The Chief of Human Resources shall
be appointed by the President with the approval of the County Board. The Chief of Human Resources
and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. The Chief of Human Resources shall be responsible for
the general management and control of the Bureau of Human Resources in a manner consistent with the
ordinances of the County, the laws of the state, and the rules of the Bureau.
RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #17
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON RULES & ADMINISTRATION #292097
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
MIKE QUIGLEY, FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO, LARRY SUFFREDIN and
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Compliance Administrator is in the process of investigating approximately 240 claims
from County employees of unlawful patronage; and
WHEREAS, the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources is indispensable to the eradication of any
unlawful patronage; and
WHEREAS, the identity of the individual who holds the position of Chief of the Bureau of Human
Resources is critical to the proper functioning of the County; and
WHEREAS, it is essential that the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources be highly qualified,
experienced, and politically independent; and
WHEREAS, due to the importance of this position, the Compliance Administrator has asked to be able to
review the resumes of the candidates for a new Bureau Chief and has requested that the County conduct a
national search; and
WHEREAS, the multiple requests made by the Compliance Administrator have been denied by the
President.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Administration shall conduct a national search for
the next Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the selected candidate shall have at least 10 to 15 years of
experience as the Chief of Human Resources of an institution with a minimum of ten thousand
employees; and

 page 17
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #17 cont’d
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Compliance Administrator shall have the opportunity to
review the resumes of all applicants before the elimination process starts and before any candidate
appears before the selection committee; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Compliance Administrator shall monitor the meetings and
activities of the selection committee; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the position is adequately funded by the Board of Commissioners
as to attract appropriately qualified candidates.
* * * * *
ITEM #18
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL #292098
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION PROPOSING DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CARBON DIOXIDE REDUCTION PROGRAMS FOR
COOK COUNTY BUILDINGS
WHEREAS, there is a consensus among the world's leading scientists that global warming caused by
human emission of greenhouse gases is among the most significant problems facing the world today; and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) estimates that commercial and
industrial buildings are responsible for nearly 50 percent of the national emissions of greenhouse gases
that contribute to global climate change; and
WHEREAS, the USEPA estimated that if the energy efficiency of commercial and industrial buildings in
the U.S. improved 10 percent, Americans would save an estimate $20 billion and reduce greenhouse
gases equal to emission from about 30 million vehicles; and
WHEREAS, the President and the Board of Commissioners have shown environmental accountability by
recently approving resolutions in support of membership in the Chicago Climate Exchange and support of
the Robbins Community Power bio-mass power plant; and
WHEREAS, President Todd H. Stroger sponsored and passed a resolution, in July 2007, to support Cook
County founding membership in the Sierra Club Cool Counties Climate Stabilization Declaration, which
challenges counties to create an inventory of our county government (operational) greenhouse gas
(“GHG”) emissions and implement policies, programs and operations to achieve significant, measurable
and sustainable reduction of those operational GHG emissions to help contribute to the regional reduction
targets; and
WHEREAS, the President and the Board of Commissioners recently approved The Cook County Climate
Change Mitigation Act, sponsored by Commissioner Quigley, which requires Cook County, on January 1,
2009, to enter into a legally and financially binding agreement with Phase II of the Chicago Climate
Exchange CCX, committing to a reduction of 1.5 percent of its total greenhouse gas emissions from the
buildings and vehicles Cook County operates, equaling each year between 2006 and 2010; and
WHEREAS, once Cook County joins the Chicago Climate Exchange, Cook County will be required to
pay the Chicago Climate Exchange noncompliance fees for lack of meeting the required yearly CO2
reductions of approximately 4053 metric tons of CO2 for the FY 2007 and FY 2008 estimated at
$110,000.00 for both years within 90 days of signing the formal agreement and approximately $70,000.00
yearly until FY 2010; and

 page 18
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #18 cont’d
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Environmental Control has began the process of
addressing its future commitments to Cool Counties Climate Stabilization Declaration and Chicago
Climate Exchange by actively pursuing federal and state funding for implementation of new
environmental programs, including a pending award from the USEPA for a Diesel Vehicle Retrofit
Program to reduce the CO2 emissions from diesel vehicles in the Cook County Highway Department; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Environmental Control, in a collaborative effort with the
Bureau of Administration’s Department of Industrial Engineering, the Office of Capital Planning and
Policy, the Sheriff’s Office, the Bureau of Health Services and the Purchasing Department, recently
developed a Request of Qualifications and received submittals from Energy Service Contractors (ESCo)
that would be able to guarantee results reducing Cook County’s CO2 emissions and energy expenditures
from Cook County largest facilities; and
WHEREAS, guaranteed energy saving programs have been implemented for counties and cities across
the United States, by ESCos, by implementing energy efficiency retrofit programs utilizing EnergyStar
supported products and the use of renewable and sustainable energy technologies. Implementation of
these energy efficiency programs has been able to reduce utility cost by hundreds of thousands of dollars
yearly for the customers of ESCos; and
WHEREAS, ESCo will identify and evaluate energy-saving opportunities with an industrial energy audit
of Cook County facilities and then recommend a package of improvements to be paid for through savings.
The ESCo will guarantee that savings meet or exceed annual payments to cover all project costs—usually
over the contract term. In the event the savings do not materialize, the ESCo pays the difference.
WHEREAS, the President and the Board of Commissioners appreciates the need to assess each energy
efficiency and carbon dioxide reduction initiative in an effort to: 1) determine the fiscal, personnel, and
operational impact on the using department or agency affected by the initiative; 2) determine whether
fiscal, personnel, and operational resources exist for implementation of said proposed initiative; and, 3)
conduct a cost-benefit-analysis of the initiative so as to determine whether the initiative can be sustained
monetarily and to determine the risks, i.e., noncompliance fees as above, associated with a decision to not
implement said initiative.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of Commissioners support the pending
Energy and Emission Reduction Request for Proposals and pending contracts that will generate
deliverables that will benefit Cook County by:
1. Complying with the CO2 reductions as required by the Chicago Climate Exchange and place
Cook County in a revenue generating position with the Chicago Climate Exchange;
2. Reducing Cook County use of electricity, natural gas, gasoline and water resulting in a reduction
in its emissions of carbon dioxide;
3. Benchmark Cook County facilities for EnergyStar and LEED Existing Building certification;
4. Decreasing the cost of utilities for Cook County by hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the President and the Board of Commissioners that each energy
efficiency and carbon dioxide reduction initiative will be assessed in an effort to: 1) determine the fiscal,
personnel, and operational impact on the using department or agency affected by the initiative; 2)
determine whether fiscal, personnel, and operational resources exist for implementation of said proposed
initiative; and, 3) conduct a cost-benefit-analysis of the intiative so as to determine whether the initiative
can be sustained monetarily and to determine the risks associated with a decision to not implement said
initiative.
* * * * *

 page 19
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #19
SUBSTITUTE APPROVED
COMMISSIONER SILVESTRI VOTED “PRESENT”.
COMMISSIONERS GORMAN, GOSLIN, PERAICA AND SCHNEIDER VOTED “NO”.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
EARLEAN COLLINS, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION CALLING UPON THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND CONGRESS TO AMEND THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC STIMULUS PACKAGE TO
RESPOND TO THE IMPACT OF GLOBAL WARMING, ASSISTING OUR AUTOMOTIVE
INDUSTRY, REPAIRING THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF OUR MAJOR TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEMS AND REDUCING THE HIGH UNEMPLOYMENT RATE THROUGH
JOB TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, our core mission is public safety, healthcare to the indigent and to protect the welfare of the
people of Cook County. Dwindling resources from the State and Federal government poses serious stain
on the taxpayers of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, we recognize the declining state of our national economy and its direct impact on our ability
to secure the necessary revenue to adequately fulfill our mission; and
WHEREAS, the President’s recognition of the need to stimulate the economy cannot go unappreciated
however, the President’s plan of action is not well conceived and focuses on only a temporary fix to the
most immediate problems rather than maximizing the use of dollars to accomplish our economic goals
while at the same time addressing some of the most critical problems facing our nation such as: the
impact of global warming, the need for alternative energy sources, improvement of our basic
infrastructure, the need for retooling our automobile industry with a focus on building environmentally
safe vehicles and less dependency on foreign oil, and job creation for the unemployed; and
WHEREAS, all of these issues are critical to the growth and the vitality of our country and it is critical
that we seek ways by which to solve multiple problems by using the same dollar; and
WHEREAS, we can address the economic problem and the global warming problem at the same time by
creating jobs that work to improve our dams, bridges and shoreline, jobs in the automobile industry
producing energy efficient vehicles, and jobs in the field of science and technology for the creation of
alternative energy sources.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners call upon the President of the United States and Congress to carefully consider
reinvesting the estimated handouts to taxpayers and begin the process of building a more solid base for
economic prosperity and taking a step toward minimizing the impact of global warming and creating a
safer environment; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of same be sent to each member of the
Illinois Congressional delegation, the President of the United States, the United States Senate and the
Speaker of the House.
* * * * *

 page 20
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #20
RECEIVED & FILED
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
NATIONAL POLICY ALLIANCE (NPA)
As we celebrate the life of John H. Stroger, Jr. a visionary, a man of ideas, a great leader and a trail blazer
of engagement, empowerment and equality; and
WHEREAS, the National Policy Alliance, whose members include the:
Congressional Black Caucus (CBC),
The National Black Caucus of State Legislators (NBCSL),
The National Association of Black County Officials (NABCO),
The National Conference of Black Mayors (NCBM),
The National Black Caucus of Local Elected Officials (NBCLEO),
The National Black Caucus of School Board Members (NBCSBM),
The Judicial Council of the National Bar Association (NBA),
Blacks In Government (BIG),
The World Conference of Mayors (WCM); and
The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies
who represents over 10,000 Black elected officials in the United States and over 3 million government
employees at the local, state and federal level; and
WHEREAS, the news of the passing of our colleague, John Stroger, was received with such sorrow, that
it saddened the leadership of the National Policy Alliance; and
WHEREAS, John was one of the longest serving African-American elected officials, of any kind, in the
United States; and the first African-American to be elected as President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and chaired every major committee with the Board; and served as President of the
National Association of Counties; and
WHEREAS, the NPA’s pursuit of public policies that serve the interests and needs of the African
American community is bolstered by the certain knowledge that these policies, when successful, benefit
the nation as a whole; that John H. Stroger, Jr.’s legacy of leadership in county government, shall long be
remembered by those of us who continue the charge of governance.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, Webster J. Guillory, Co-Chair, NPA and Chairman,
NOBCO; Johnny Ford, Co-Chair, NPA and Mayor, Tuskegee, Alabama; and Deborah Sims, Vice Chair,
NPA and President, NABCO; on behalf of the entire National Policy Alliance membership, henceforth,
shall recognize John H. Stroger, Jr., as being a leader in county government, who dedicated his
knowledge and expertise in forging the advancement of relevant policies to improve the quality of life for
Cook County, as well as for counties throughout the nation.
* * * * *

 page 21
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
RESOLUTIONS continued
ITEM #21
RECEIVED & FILED
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF BLACK COUNTY OFFICIALS (NOBCO)
In every life’s journey there’s a call that one must answer and John H. Stroger, Jr. answered his call to
duty with dedication, commitment, friendship, quick wittedness and caring; and
WHEREAS, that on this day of interment for John H. Stroger, Jr., Wednesday, January Twenty-third,
Two Thousand and Eight be recognized as the John H. Stroger, Jr. Day, as ordered by the Presidents’ and
Chairman and approved by the Boards of Directors and Executive Committees of the National
Association of Black County Officials, the National Organization of Black County Officials and the
Business Roundtable (BRT); and
WHEREAS, it is with the deepest of sorrow that we received the news of the passing of our dear friend
and colleague, John Stroger, which introduced a sense of sadness, because John, who served as a leader to
many officials, who mentored countless African-American officials, who often was the voice of
settleness, and was a constant person, a reliable person; and
WHEREAS, he was one of the longest serving African-American elected officials, of any kind, in the
United States; and the first African American to be elected as President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and chaired every major committee with the Board; and served as President of the
National Association of Counties; and
WHEREAS, the legacy of his leadership in the area of health and healthcare for the people of Cook
County; and his advocacy in supporting small and women-owned businesses will be forever noted,
applauded and recognized; and
WHEREAS, he was a person of Value, of Giving, of Family, and of Community; NABCO, NOBCO, and
the BRT extend our steadfast support to John’s wife, Yonnie, their son, Todd, and daughter, Yonnie
Lynn. We will reflect on the yesterdays of our fallen friend, our colleague, our leader in fond memories.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Deborah Sims, President, NABCO; and Webster J.
Guillory, Chairman, NOBCO; and Clarence K. Bourne, President, BRT; henceforth, shall recognize John
H. Stroger, Jr., as being a consummate county official, who dedicated his time, his talents, and his energy
in making a difference in the lives of others, as well as reaffirming his commitment of supporting the
development of our leaders.
CONSENT CALENDAR
ITEM #22
APPROVED
Pursuant to Cook County Code Section 2-108(gg), the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby
transmits Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
There are 7 Consent Calendar items for the February 6, 2008 Board Meeting.
CC ITEM #1
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

 page 22
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
CC ITEM #1 cont’d
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His Infinite Wisdom has called Judge Harry G. Comerford from our
midst; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford was born on March 19, 1921, and was raised on Chicago’s Near North
Side; he graduated from high school at DePaul Academy; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford served in the United States Navy; he fought valiantly during World War
II as a lieutenant commander in the Pacific Theater; and
WHEREAS, upon an honorable discharge, Judge Comerford earned a law degree from DePaul
University in 1947; and
WHEREAS, in the following years, Judge Comerford served as an assistant Illinois attorney general, ran
a private practice and worked as a lawyer for the Chicago Park District; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford was first elected to the judiciary in 1960, and was named Head Judge of
the County Division in 1969; he served both positions with distinction; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford was elected Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County by his
fellow judges in 1978, and presided in this post until he retired in 1994; and
WHEREAS, in the position as Chief Judge, Judge Comerford’s accomplishments and the reforms he
implemented are considerable; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford created a random judicial assignment system; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford effected a complete overhaul of the Juvenile Courts; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford expanded suburban court branches in Rolling Meadows, Skokie and
Bridgeview; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford expanded the Criminal Courts Building at 26th Street and California
Avenue; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford created a judiciary research department; and
WHEREAS, in all of his positions with the judiciary, Judge Comerford displayed a gentle disposition,
patience and humility; and
WHEREAS, Judge Comerford is survived by his wife of 57 years, Noreen, daughters Sally and Susan, a
son, Brien, a sister Ann Babcock, four grandchildren and two great grandchildren; his memory shall be
cherished in their hearts and in all of the hearts of the people he loved.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, on behalf of the more than five
million residents of Cook County, hereby do express my deepest condolences and most heartfelt
sympathy to the family as well as to the many friends and loved ones of Judge Harry G. Comerford.
* * * * *

 page 23
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
CC ITEM #2
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County Commissioner
RESOLUTION
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE INCORPORATION OF
THE VILLAGE OF HANOVER PARK
WHEREAS, on August 14, 1958, the Village of Hanover Park was incorporated by 450 residents
residing in unincorporated western Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Hanover Park has grown by annexing the area previously known as
Ontarioville and areas southerly into DuPage County; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Hanover Park was once a small residential community and has grown to a
population of 38,000 residents and has developed major business and industrial parks including the
Turnberry and Mallard Lake Industrial Parks; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Hanover Park has overseen major transportation improvements by its
expansion of the Village's commuter parking lot and roadway improvements including Barrington Road,
County Farm Road, and Lake Street, which became the western terminus of the Elgin-O'Hare
Expressway; and
WHEREAS, the Village President and Board of Trustees have developed the Village into a community
proud of its planned growth while still recognizing its small town residential history.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook
County do hereby congratulate the Village of Hanover Park, its elected officials and residents on the 50th
anniversary of incorporation and wishes it continued success and growth in the future; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be prepared and tendered over to
the Village of Hanover Park.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #3
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, today we celebrate the birthday of a true Renaissance man, Dempsey J. Travis; and
WHEREAS, a self-made millionaire through entrepreneurship, in 1953 Mr. Travis was a pioneer in
owning the first African-American mortgage company in the country to offer government-guaranteed
loans; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Travis was an active participant in the Civil Rights Movement, serving as coordinator
for Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s first civil rights march in Chicago in 1960. Mr. Travis also was present
at President Lyndon B. Johnson’s 1966 civil rights meetings; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Travis is a prolific writer; he has authored 32 books including Real Estate is the Gold
in Your Future, and Harold: the People’s Mayor, and has himself been the subject of many newspaper
and periodical articles and radio and television programs, five of which have been nominated for Emmy
awards; and

 page 24
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
CC ITEM #3 cont’d
WHEREAS, Mr. Travis has served with distinction under several United States presidents, including on
President Richard Nixon’s Housing Task Force and on President Gerald Ford’s Presidential Task Force
on Urban Renewal and Task Force on Inflation; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Travis has extensively served the not-for-profit sector; he is a past president of the
NAACP and has been appointed as trustee of many organizations, including the Chicago Historical
Society and Northwestern Memorial Hospital; and
WHEREAS, the many successes of Mr. Travis are the evidence of his manifold of talents, boundless
energy and dedication to society.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, Todd H. Stroger, along with the Cook County Board
of Commissioners, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County, extend warm and
heartfelt congratulations to Dempsey J. Travis on the joyous occasion of his birthday and express hope
that he experiences continued health and happiness.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #4
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT and WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook County was saddened to learn of the
passing of Louis E. Rago on January 25, 2008; and
WHEREAS, Louis E. Rago was a well-respected and well known funeral director in Cook County for
more than 60 years; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rago’s father and uncle started the family owned and operated funeral business in
1911. Mr. Rago first became involved when he was just a grammar school student, helping out at the
funeral parlor after classes at Holy Rosary Parish. He went on to serve in the Army during World War II
and attend DePaul University; and
WHEREAS, Louis E. Rago graduated from Worsham College of Mortuary Science in 1947 and then
began his long and illustrious career as a funeral director. He operated John Rago Sons Funeral Home
with his brother, Joseph until 2003. The business is still family owned and operated; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Rago’s compassion, strong work ethic and belief in treating everyone with the same
courtesy and respect made him an inspiration to his family and fellow funeral directors and was
instrumental in his successful career spanning six decades.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook
County do hereby extend their sympathies to Louis E. Rago’s wife, Adeline and his nieces and nephews.
* * * * *

 page 25
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
CC ITEM #5
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT and WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook County are deeply saddened at the
tragic and untimely death of WBBM-TV anchorman, Randy Salerno; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Salerno was a well-known, well-loved and highly respected local news personality, first
at WGN-TV, Channel 9 and then WBBM-TV, Channel 2; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Salerno was born and raised in Crystal Lake, Illinois; attended Crystal Lake South High
School, Illinois Wesleyan University and Illinois State University, where he graduated with a bachelor’s
degree in communications; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Salerno’s successful career in the media took him to stations in Rockford and Peoria,
Illinois and Albany, New York, before he joined WGN in Chicago in 1993; and
WHEREAS, Randy Salerno rapidly became extremely popular with the Chicagoland viewing public due
to his intelligence, integrity, quick-witted humor and endearing personality. His loss is felt by countless
numbers of viewers and he will be sorely missed.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook
County do hereby extend their deepest condolences to Randy Salerno’s wife, Irene, their three children,
Haley, Slone and Charlie, his parents, brother, sister, relatives, friends and co-workers. Randy Salerno
impacted not only their lives, but the lives of so many others who did not personally know him, but felt as
if they did. The President and Board further hope that this wonderful legacy brings solace to those who
will miss him most.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #6
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT and WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY,
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
MIKE QUIGLEY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, DEBORAH SIMS,
ROBERT B. STEELE and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners

 page 26
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
CC ITEM #6 cont’d
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Unico National is a Italian American service organization with 150 chapters throughout the
United States; and
WHEREAS, Joseph Agresti, of Clifton, New Jersey serves as President of Unico National and has
initiated many innovative programs that benefit Italian Americans throughout the country and keep alive
Italian culture and traditions; and
WHEREAS, President Agresti is responsible for bringing the national Board of Directors meeting to
Chicago for the first time in twenty-five years. The Board will meet the first week of March 2008 and
will bring countless Unico members to our area, increase business in our hospitality and retail industry
and allow us to showcase the many attributes of our county.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook
County do hereby congratulate Unico National President Joseph Agresti on his success, commend him for
his dedication and volunteerism and thank him for his graciousness in bringing the Board of Directors
meeting to Cook County.
* * * * *
CC ITEM #7
Submitting a Resolution sponsored by
DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
Co-Sponsored by
JERRY BUTLER, GREGG GOSLIN, ROBERTO MALDONADO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and PRESIDENT TODD H. STROGER, FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, MIKE QUIGLEY, PETER N. SILVESTRI
and ROBERT B. STEELE, County Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, February is American Heart Month; and
WHEREAS, Heart disease, stroke and other cardiovascular diseases are the number one killer of
American women; and
WHEREAS, cardiovascular disease claims nearly 400,000 American women each year; and yet many
women do not realize that they are at risk, nor do their physicians; and
WHEREAS, the HEART for Women Act (S.573/H.R. 1014) is needed to help make women and their
healthcare providers aware that cardiovascular disease is not just a “man’s disease”; and
WHEREAS, it is a worthy goal to eliminate disparities in the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease
and stroke in women; and
WHEREAS, the American Heart Association is a strong supporter of the HEART for Women Act and
has launched a “Red Dress Paper Doll” petition to demonstrate to Congress the widespread support this
bill has around the country; and
WHEREAS, since February 2007, nearly 30,000 Americans have signed the Paper Doll Petition in
support of the HEART for Women Act, and another 36,000 people have sent e-mails to their
representatives about the Bill; and
WHEREAS, the HEART for Women Act can help millions of women live longer, healthier lives by
supporting victims of heart attack and stroke.

 page 27
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

COMMISSIONERS continued
CONSENT CALENDAR continued
ITEM #22 cont’d
CC ITEM #7 cont’d
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that the
Board recognizes the need to raise consciousness about cardiovascular diseases as it afflicts women
across America and supports the passage of the HEART for Women Act (S.573/H.R. 1014); and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that copies of this Resolution are delivered to the American Heart
Association, the Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives, the President of the Illinois Senate and
the Illinois Congressional Delegation.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
ITEM #23
DETAILED INFORMATION REGARDING COMMITTEE REPORTS IS AVAILABLE FROM
THE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Health & Hospitals...........................................................................................Meeting of January 22, 2008
APPROVED
Note: At this meeting Comm. No. 291516 – The Cook County Hospital Assessment Ordinance was
approved.
Construction.....................................................................................................Meeting of January 30, 2008
APPROVED
Real Estate & Business & Economic Development Subcommittee ................Meeting of February 6, 2008
APPROVED
Task Force on Hospital Governance................................................................Meeting of February 6, 2008
DELETED
Finance.............................................................................................................Meeting of February 6, 2008
APPROVED
Zoning & Building...........................................................................................Meeting of February 6, 2008
APPROVED
COMMISSIONER PERAICA VOTED “NO” ON COMM. NO. 292094.
Roads & Bridges ..............................................................................................Meeting of February 6, 2008
APPROVED

 page 28
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #24
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
ROBERT R. SIMON, M.D., Interim Chief, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of floor care
products for Oak Forest Hospital Cook County and Stroger Hospital of Cook County.
Contract period: June 6, 2008 through June 5, 2010. (897-330 and 898-330 Accounts). Requisition Nos.
88970211 and 88980099.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

CONTRACT
ITEM #25
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
ROBERT R. SIMON, M.D., Interim Chief, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into and execute contracts with the following
vendors for commercial nursing registry services for the Ambulatory and Community Health Network of
Cook County, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, the Department of Public Health, the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, Provident Hospital of Cook County
and Stroger Hospital of Cook County:
Reason:

These contractors were selected through a Request for Proposal (RFP) and it was determined
that they met the requirements of the RFP. It is necessary to contract with multiple
commercial nursing registries in order to supplement the nursing staff, and to meet the volume
and diversity of needs of the bureau’s operating units. Pursuant to the RFP specifications, the
estimated fiscal impact reflected on the summary sheet for each facility represents the same
amount appropriated in the fiscal year 2007 budget
This item should move forward for Board approval because failure to do so will jeopardize
the bureau’s ability to have adequate nursing coverage to provide patient care..

Vendor

Stroger
Hospital
of Cook
County
(897)

Provident
Hospital
of Cook
County
(891)

Oak Forest
Hospital
of Cook
County
(898)

Ambulatory &
Community
Health
Network
of Cook
County
(893)

Cermak
Health
Services
of Cook
County
(240)

Dept. of
Public
Health
(895)

Juvenile
Temporary
Detention
Center
(440 240)

Med-Call
Health Care,
Inc.
Chicago,
Illinois

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

$200,000.00

-0-

-0-

Professional
Nursing, Inc.
Chicago,
Illinois

$ 40,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

 page 29
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES continued
CONTRACT continued
ITEM #25 cont’d

Vendor

Stroger
Hospital
of Cook
County
(897)

Provident
Hospital
of Cook
County
(891)

Oak Forest
Hospital
of Cook
County
(898)

Ambulatory &
Community
Health
Network
of Cook
County
(893)

Cermak
Health
Services
of Cook
County
(240)

Dept. of
Public
Health
(895)

Juvenile
Temporary
Detention
Center
(440 240)

Gareda
Diversified
Business
Services, Inc.
Calumet City,
Illinois

$700,000.00

$1,079,358.00

$550,000.00

$250,000.00

$400,000.00

$25,000.00

$42,560.00

LMR Nursing
Services, Inc.
Naperville,
Illinois

$570,000.00

-0-

$30,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

Nursefinders,
Inc. d/b/a
Nursefinders of
Oak Lawn
Chicago,
Illinois

-0-

-0-

-0-

$27,000.00

$150,000.00

-0-

$106,272.00

Emergency
Nursing
Staffing Assn.
Chicago,
Illinois

-0-

$100,000.00

$40,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

$150,000.00

$200,000.00

$40,000.00

-0-

$50,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

$30,000.00

$250,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

Maxim
Healthcare
Services, Inc.
Matteson,
Illinois

$150,000.00

-0-

$49,000.00

$250,000.00

-0-

$22,000.00

$51,168.00

Direct
Medstaff
Nursing, Inc.
Chicago,
Illinois

$50,000.00

-0-

$30,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

Integrity
Nursing
Network, Inc.
Chicago,
Illinois

$50,000.00

-0-

$30,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

Reliable Health
Care Services,
LLC
Park Forest,
Illinois

$45,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

Whitecap
Nursing
Chicago,
Illinois

$45,000.00

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

-0-

$1,800,000.00

$1,379,358.00

$799,000.00

$777,000.00

$800,000.00

$47,000.00

$200,000.00

The Nurse
Agency, Inc.
Chicago,
Illinois
Advanced
Comprehensive
Services
Chicago,
Illinois

Total:

Total Estimated Fiscal Impact: $5,802,358.00. Contract period: March 1, 2008 through February 28,
2009. (897-275, 891-275, 898-275, 893-275, 240-275, 895-275, 894-275 and 440 240-275 Accounts).
Estimated Fiscal Impact for Stroger Hospital of Cook County: $1,800,000.00. (897-275 Account).
Requisition Nos. 88970000, 88970001, 88970002, 88970003, 88970004, 88970005 and 88970006
Estimated Fiscal Impact for Provident Hospital of Cook County: $1,379,358.00. (891-275 Account).
Requisition Nos. 8891000, 88910002 and 88910003.

 page 30
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES continued
CONTRACT continued
ITEM #25 cont’d
Estimated Fiscal Impact for Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County: $799,000.00. (898-275 Account).
Requisition Nos. 88980090, 88980091, 88980092, 88980093, 88980094, 88980095, 88980096 and
88980097.
Estimated Fiscal Impact for the Ambulatory & Community Health Network of Cook County:
$777,000.00. (893-275 Account). Requisition Nos. 88932501, 88932502, 88932503 and 88932504.
Estimated Fiscal Impact for Cermak Health Services of Cook County: $800,000.00. (240-275 Account).
Requisition Nos. 82400001, 82400002, 82400003, and 82400098.
Estimated Fiscal Impact for the Department of Public Health:
Requisition Nos. 88958001 and 88958002.

$47,000.00.

(895-275 Account).

Estimated Fiscal Impact for the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center: $200,000.00. (440 240-275
Account). Requisitions Nos. 84400004 82400004, 84400005 82400005 and 84400006 82400006.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #26
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
ROBERT R. SIMON, M.D., Interim Chief, Bureau of Health Services
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for two (2) months, Contract No. 05-72-372
with Alliance Health Services, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for the leasing of air-fluidized and low-air-loss beds
for Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, Provident Hospital of Cook County and Stroger Hospital of
Cook County.
Reason:

This request is necessary for continued care of critically ill patients in the trauma and
intensive care units to prevent deterioration of skin from friction during patient care. It allows
sufficient time for the award, execution and implementation of the new consolidated bureauwide contract for which bids were opened on January 22, 2008. Approximately $417,675.00
remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current contract was January 31, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: February 1, 2008 through March 31, 2008.

 page 31
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
ITEM #27
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
SYLVIA EDWARDS, Acting Chief Operating Officer, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County
The medical staff appointment and medical staff reappointment presented have been professionally
reviewed and recommended for the status shown. The Board of Commissioners will be notified
confidentially when there are physicians herein who have any malpractice claims or professional
sanctions when such specific cases have not previously been presented to the Board of Commissioners.
Additional information concerning such matters will be available on a confidential basis through the
Secretary of the Board.
MEDICAL STAFF APPOINTMENT
Name

Department

Hussain, Anwer, M.D.
Emergency Services
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Status
Affiliate Physician

MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENT
Name

Department

Status

Azaran, Abdol, M.D.
Medicine
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-6, Step 5; Budget #8980030; Position ID No. 9625427; Reappointment
effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #28
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
SYLVIA EDWARDS, Acting Chief Operating Officer, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend from February 14, 2008 through May 13,
2008, Contract No. 06-72-56 with Ballert Orthopedic, Chicago, Illinois, for the purchase of customized
orthotic and prosthetic devices.
Reason:

This request is necessary to allow continued services until the rebid, evaluation, award and
implementation of the new contract for which the rebid is scheduled for March 5, 2008.
Approximately $25,000.00 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current
contract is February 13, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: February 14, 2008 through May 13, 2008.

 page 32
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
ITEM #29
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
The medical staff reappointments presented have been professionally reviewed and recommended for the
status shown. The Board of Commissioners will be notified confidentially when there are physicians
herein who have any malpractice claims or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not
previously been presented to the Board of Commissioners. Additional information concerning such
matters will be available on a confidential basis through the Secretary of the Board.
MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Bari, Naveed, M.D.
Critical Care
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8910500; Position ID No. 9518772; Reappointment
effective March 22, 2008 through March 21, 2010
Boye, Roger, M.D.
Critical Care/Internal Medicine
Account #133; Budget #8910500; Position ID No. 0389118; Reappointment effective January 19,
2008 through January 18, 2010
Charles, Lesley, M.D.
Medicine/Infectious Disease
Account #110; Grade K-6, Step 5; Budget #8912043; Position ID No. 9518834; Reappointment
effective February 18, 2008 through February 17, 2010
Moswin, Arthur, M.D.
Medicine/Infectious Disease
Account #155; Grade K-6, Step 5; Budget #8912043; Position ID No. 0189156; Reappointment
effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010
Nickson, Pamela, M.D.
Pediatrics
Account #110; Grade K-4, Step 5; Budget #8910505; Position ID No. 9932137; Reappointment
effective January 19, 2008 through January 18, 2010
Orbana, Myrna, M.D.
Critical Care/Internal Medicine
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8910500; Position ID No. 0300135; Reappointment
effective January 20, 2008 through January 19, 2010
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #30
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
SIDNEY A. THOMAS, Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the following services:
REQ. NO.

DESCRIPTION

ACCOUNT NO.

88911004

Biohazardous scavenger services

891-215

07/28/08 through 07/27/11

88911005

Refrigeration equipment maintenance

891-450

05/02/08 through 05/01/11

88911007

Maintenance of the cooling tower system

891-450

07/12/08 through 07/11/11

88911009

Maintenance of the boiler system

891-450

06/06/08 through 06/05/11

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

CONTRACT PERIOD

 page 33
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
GRANT AWARD RENEWALS
ITEM #31
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 11, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $160,000.00 from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH) for a program to provide services to increase immunization rates in children less
than 18 years old, including activities such as maintaining a record keeping system, administering
vaccines, sending out recalls and reminders and performing semi-annual assessments of private
immunization providers. In addition, the Department of Public Health will conduct perinatal hepatitis B
prevention services to hepatitis B positive mothers and their at-risk infants.
This grant does not require an application process; the funding is automatically renewed.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on January 9, 2007 by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in the amount of $140,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $160,000.00. Funding period: January 1, 2008 through
December 31, 2008.
The Budget Department has reviewed this item, and all requisite documents have been submitted.
* * * * *
ITEM #32
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 9, 2008 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization to renew a grant in the amount of $142,721.00 from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH). The purpose of this grant is to participate in the Cities Readiness Initiative (CRI)
in Illinois: that is, participate in a review of the Emergency Response Plan, identify and correct
weaknesses in the plan, and cooperate in a regional collaborative effort to develop a United States Postal
Services Emergency Plan. The delay was due to the late release of these contracts by the authorizing
federal agency.
This grant does not require an application process; the funding is automatically renewed.
The authorization to accept the previous grant was given on March 1, 2007 by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in the amount of $142,721.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $142,721.00. Funding period: August 31, 2007 through
July 31, 2008.
The Budget Department has reviewed this item, and all requisite documents have been submitted.

 page 34
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
CONTRACTS
ITEM #33
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into contracts with the following agencies to
provide mammography screening services to women 40 years of age and older for the purpose of early
detection of breast and cervical cancer.

REQ. NO.

AGENCY

CONTRACT
AMOUNT

79978013
79978014

Ingalls Memorial Hospital, Harvey, Illinois
Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, Illinois

$102,500.00
37,500.00

Reason:

Breast and cervical cancer in uninsured women over the age of 40 has been declared a Public
Health issue. The Federal Government has provided funding for the diagnosis and treatment
of breast and cervical cancer through state grants. The Illinois Department of Public Health
(IDPH) has developed a network of medical providers willing to provide services to these
patients at rates established by the Illinois Department of Public Health. These vendors are
approved network providers for the breast and cervical cancer prevention program.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $140,000.00. Contract period: July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008. (997-260 Account).
* * * * *
ITEM #34
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Suburban Primary Health
Care Council, Westchester, Illinois, to provide mammography screening services to women 40 years of
age and older for the purpose of early detection of breast and cervical cancer.
Reason:

Breast and cervical cancer in uninsured women over the age of 40 has been declared a Public
Health issue. The Federal Government has provided funding for the diagnosis and treatment
of breast and cervical cancer through state grants. The Illinois Department of Public Health
(IDPH) has developed a network of medical providers willing to provide services to these
patients at rates established by the Illinois Department of Public Health. The Suburban
Primary Health Care Council is an approved network provider for the breast and cervical
cancer prevention program.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $30,000.00. Contract period: July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008. (997-260 Account). Requisition No. 79978012.
* * * * *

 page 35
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH continued
CONTRACTS continued
ITEM #35
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Radiology Imaging
Consultants, SC, Harvey, Illinois, to provide mammography screening services to women 40 years of age
and older for the purpose of early detection of breast and cervical cancer.
Reason:

Breast and cervical cancer in uninsured women over the age of 40 has been declared a Public
Health issue. The Federal Government has provided funding for the diagnosis and treatment
of breast and cervical cancer through state grants. The Illinois Department of Public Health
(IDPH) has developed a network of medical providers willing to provide services to these
patients at rates established by the Illinois Department of Public Health. Radiology Imaging
Consultants, SC is an approved network provider for the breast and cervical cancer prevention
program.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $63,000.00. Contract period: July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008. (997-260 Account). Requisition No. 79978011.
* * * * *
ITEM #36
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Loyola University
Physician Foundation, Maywood, Illinois, to provide mammography screening services to women 40
years of age and older for the purpose of early detection of breast and cervical cancer.
Reason:

Breast and cervical cancer in uninsured women over the age of 40 has been declared a Public
Health issue. The Federal Government has provided funding for the diagnosis and treatment
of breast and cervical cancer through state grants. The Illinois Department of Public Health
(IDPH) has developed a network of medical providers willing to provide services to these
patients at rates established by the Illinois Department of Public Health. Loyola University
Physician Foundation is an approved network provider for the breast and cervical prevention
program.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $37,500.00. Contract period: July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008. (997-260 Account). Requisition No. 79978015.
CONTRACT ADDENDA
ITEM #37
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $4,465,000.00 and extend from
December 1, 2007 through October 31, 2009, the lead based paint hazard control grant contracts between
the County of Cook and the following entities to provide abatement and mitigation services to low
income Cook County single family residential property owners and tenants residing in multi-unit
properties:

 page 36
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH continued
CONTRACT ADDENDA continued
ITEM #37 cont’d
ORIGINAL
CONTRACT
AMOUNT

INCREASE
REQUESTED

ADJUSTED
AMOUNT

Community and Economic Development
Association of Cook County, Inc. (CEDA)
Contract No. 06-42-386

$1,320,000.00

$1,320,000.00

$2,640,000.00

City of Chicago, Department of Public Health
Contract No. 06-42-388

$4,780,000.00

$2,745,000.00

$7,525,000.00

City of Evanston, Health and Human Services
Department
Contract No. 06-42-387

$ 400,000.00

$ 400,000.00

$ 800,000.00

AGENCY

Reason:

The Lead Poisoning Prevention Fund was adopted by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on November 21, 2000, Resolution No. 00-R-611. The agencies were
selected through grant application proposals and met the criteria and eligibility requirements
established by the Lead Prevention Advisory Council (LPAC) and the Lead Poisoning
Prevention Unit. The respective increases and extension have been approved by the LPAC
based on the performance of these three certified vendors to safely and expeditiously remove
this deadly health hazard away from Cook County children who have been previously
exposed to lead. The LPAC and the Cook County Department of Public Health respectfully
request the Board of Commissioners approve this recommendation to continue this vital
award winning public health project without any service interruption. The expiration date of
the current contract was November 30, 2007.

Estimated Fiscal Impact:
None.
Lead Poisoning Prevention Fund Amount: $4,465,000.00
($2,232,500.00 per year). Special fund amount: $3,277,000.00. Contract extension: December 1, 2007
through October 31, 2009. (544-260 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the Lead Poisoning Prevention Fund.
* * * * *
ITEM #38
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $112,500.00, Contract No. 07-72-354
with Laboratory Corporation of America/LabCorp, Elmhurst, Illinois, for laboratory services to include
the Public Health Tuberculosis Control Unit.
Board approved amount 11-06-07:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$2,863,765.00
112,500.00
$2,976,265.00

On June 19, 2007, the Cook County Board of Commissioners approved Resolution No. 07-R258, to provide for the assumption of programs of the Cook County Suburban Tuberculosis
Sanitarium District by the Cook County Department of Public Health and to establish a
special purpose fund for the prevention, care, treatment and control of tuberculosis in
Suburban Cook County. This increase will allow the Tuberculosis Control Unit to participate
in the bureau wide laboratory contract. The expiration date of the current contract is
November 30, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. TB Sanitarium District Fund Amount: $112,500.00 ($37,500.00 per
year). (564-278 Account).
Sufficient funds are available in the TB Sanitary District Fund
* * * * *

 page 37
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH continued
CONTRACT ADDENDA continued
ITEM #39
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H., Chief Operating Officer, Department of Public Health
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $78,000.00, Contract No. 05-15-623H2
with AmeriSource Bergen, South Bend, Indiana, to pay outstanding invoices for the purchase of flu
vaccine for fiscal year 2007.
Board approved amount 06-20-06:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$276,480,000.00
78,000.00
$276,558,000.00

The prime pharmaceutical vendor for Cook County is AmeriSource Bergen. AmeriSource
Bergen could not provide preservative free vaccine as required by Illinois Public Law 0940614. AmeriSource Bergen sub-contracted with another vendor to provide the preservation
free flu vaccine in October 2007. The AmeriSource Bergen contract did not include the
provision for the flu vaccine expense. The expiration date of the current contract is July 31,
2009.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $78,000.00. (895-361 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2007 funds.

 page 38
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
ITEM #40
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHNNY C. BROWN, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
The initial appointments, reappointment applications and medical staff changes with no changes in
clinical privileges presented have been professionally reviewed and recommended for the status shown.
The Board of Commissioners will be notified confidentially when there are physicians herein who have
any malpractice claims or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not previously been
presented to the Board of Commissioners. Additional information concerning such matters will be
available on a confidential basis through the Secretary of the Board.
INITIAL APPOINTMENTS
Name

Department

Cermak Health Services of Cook County/
Psychiatry
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Status

Clay, Toya D., M.D.

Voluntary Psychiatrist

Dave, Nivedita J., M.D.

Voluntary Physician

Fishman, Andrew J., M.D.
Surgery/Otolaryngology
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Cermak Health Services of Cook County/
Medicine-Surgery
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Kanaparthy, Kalyana, M.D.
Medicine/General Medicine
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-4, Step 5; Budget #8970162; Position ID No. 9521939; Appointment
effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010
Forst, Linda S., M.D.
Medicine/Occupational Medicine
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Le, Jennifer, M.D.

Voluntary Psychiatrist

Palani, Colathur K., M.D.
Surgery/General Surgery
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Cermak Health Services of Cook County/
Psychiatry
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Smego, Douglas, M.D.
Surgery/Cardiothoracic
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-12; Budget #8970249; Position ID No. 9522902; Appointment
effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010
Stein, Leslie, Psy.D.

Cermak Health Services of Cook County/
Psychiatry
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Psychologist

Tracy, Diana M., M.D.

Voluntary Psychiatrist

Cermak Health Services of Cook County/
Psychiatry
Appointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

 page 39
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #40 cont’d
REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS
Name

Department

Status

Department of Anesthesiology
Jelev, Tanyu, M.D.
Anesthesiology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-9, Step 5; Budget #8970272; Position ID No. 9523140; Reappointment
effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010
Department of Emergency Medicine
Cosby, Karen, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9523325; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Kling, Mark, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account #155; Grade K-9, Step 5; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9932488; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Nasr, Isam, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9523318; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Palivos, Lisa, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9523313; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Schaider, Jeffrey, M.D.
Administration
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-12; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9523297; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Sherman, Scott, M.D.
Emergency Medicine
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 4; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9523315; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Simon, Robert, M.D.
Administration
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-12; Budget #8970285; Position ID No. 9523326; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Department of Family Practice
Blum, Connie, M.D.
Family Practice
Reappointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Department of Medicine
Dworkin, Mark, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Reappointment effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Francis, Lee, M.D.
General Medicine
Reappointment effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Kavinsky, Clifford, M.D.
Adult Cardiology
Reappointment effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Mizock, Barry, M.D.
Pulmonary & Critical Care
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-6, Step 5; Budget #8970163; Position ID No. 9521938; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010

 page 40
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #40 cont’d

Pulvirent, Joseph, M.D.
Infectious Diseases
Reappointment effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Rossi, Marvin, M.D.
Neurology
Reappointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology
Khatkhate, Prakash, M.D.
Gynecology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8970265; Position ID No. 0700129; Reappointment
effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010
Yordan, Edgardo, M.D.
Gynecology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-12; Budget #8970266; Position ID No. 9623060; Reappointment
effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010
Department of Pathology
Beavis, Kathleen, M.D.
Microbiology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-9, Step 5; Budget #8970189; Position ID No. 0289714; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Czapar, Carol, M.D.
Pathology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-7, Step 5; Budget #8970184; Position ID No. 0500388; Reappointment
effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010
Jiang, Jinxing, M.D.
Anatomic Pathology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-5, Step 5; Budget #8970184; Position ID No. 9722313; Reappointment
effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010
Kovarik, Paula, M.D.
Hematology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-10, Step 5; Budget #8970188; Position ID No. 0022253; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Sekosan, Marin, M.D.
Anatomic Pathology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-11, Step 5; Budget #8970184; Position ID No. 9522144; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Simples, Patricia, M.D.
Anatomic Pathology
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-9, Step 5; Budget #8970184; Position ID No. 9522143; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Singh, Satinder, M.D.
Pathology
Consulting Physician
Account #155; Grade ZZ; Budget #8970184; Position ID No. 9932580; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010
Department of Pediatrics
Al-abdulla, Ra-id, M.D.
Pediatrics Cardiology
Reappointment effective February 21, 2008 through February 20, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Sandler, Richard, M.D.
Pediatrics Gastroenterology
Reappointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

 page 41
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #40 cont’d
Department of Psychiatry
Ahmed, Fazal, M.D.
Child & Adolescent
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-6, Step 4; Budget #8970257; Position ID No. 0300319; Reappointment
effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010
Anderson, Karla, Psy.D.
Child & Adolescent
Clinical Psychologist
Account #110; Grade 20, Step 2; Budget #8970258; Position ID No. 9522969; Reappointment
effective March 23, 2008 through March 22, 2010
Davis, Gregory, Ph.D.
Ambulatory
Clinical Psychologist
Account #110; Grade 21, Step 8; Budget #8970259; Position ID No. 9522974; Reappointment
effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010
Kapoor, Deepak, M.D.
Administration
Reappointment effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Lewis, Gregory, Psy.D.
Child & Adolescent
Clinical Psychologist
Account #110; Grade 21, Step 9; Budget #8970260; Position ID No. 9522982; Reappointment
effective March 15, 2008 through March 14, 2010
Matek, Deborah, M.D.
Child & Adolescent
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-7, Step 5; Budget #8970259; Position ID No. 9522973; Reappointment
effective March 15, 2008 through March 14, 2010
Nunez, Pierre, Ph.D.

Cermak Health Services of Cook County/
Psychiatry
Reappointment effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010

Voluntary Psychologist

Department of Radiology
Agarwala, Rita, M.D.
Special Procedures
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-12; Budget #8970213; Position ID No. 9522611; Reappointment
effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010
Talwar, Parkash, M.D.
Radiology
Reappointment effective January 23, 2008 through January 22, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Department of Surgery
Barth, Mary Jane, M.D.
Cardiothoracic
Reappointment effective February 15, 2008 through February 14, 2010

Active Physician

Orsay, Charles, M.D.
Colon & Rectal
Reappointment effective March 22, 2008 through March 21, 2010

Voluntary Physician

Sriram, Krishnan, M.D.
General/Surgery Critical Care
Active Physician
Account #110; Grade K-12; Budget #8970237; Position ID No. 9522793; Reappointment
effective February 19, 2008 through February 18, 2010

 page 42
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS continued
ITEM #40 cont’d
MEDICAL STAFF CHANGES WITH NO CHANGES IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES
Name

Department

Win, Than, M.D.
Medicine/General Medicine
From Active Physician to Voluntary Physician
Edoigiawerie, Charles, M.D.
Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County
From Grade K-6, Step 4 to Grade K-7, Step 3; Budget #8930418; Position ID No. 0700087
Konefal, Tadeusz, S., M.D.
Anesthesiology
From Grade K-12 to Grade K-12; Budget #8970269; Position ID No. 9523207
Stabile, Stephen, S., M.D.
Anesthesiology
From Grade K-8, Step 4 to Grade K-10, Step 3; Budget #8930418; Position ID No. 0700103

CONTRACT ADDENDA
ITEM #41
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHNNY C. BROWN, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for two (2) months, Contract No. 07-54-26
with Ace Coffee Bar, Inc., Streamwood, Illinois, for the purchase of pre-made sandwiches.
Reason:

This request is necessary to allow sufficient time for the rebid, evaluation, award and
implementation of the new contract for which bids are scheduled to be opened on February 7,
2008. Approximately $19,972.20 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current
contract was January 21, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: January 22, 2008 through March 21, 2008.
* * * * *
ITEM #42
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
JOHNNY C. BROWN, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $26,000.00 and extend for three (3)
months, Contract No. 05-84-380 with Ames Color File, Division of Ames Safety Envelope Company,
Sommerville, Massachusetts, for the purchase of outpatient and inpatient special medical record folders
for the Department of Medical Records.
Board approved amount 01-18-06:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$128,800.00
26,000.00
$154,800.00

 page 43
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
STROGER HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY continued
CONTRACT ADDENDA continued
ITEM #42 cont’d
Reason:

This request is necessary to allow sufficient time for the bidding, award and implementation
of the new consolidated bureau-wide contract. Over the past several months, the number of
new outpatient visits has increased significantly. As part of an effort to standardize medical
record folders across the bureau, a bureau-wide bid was assembled which is scheduled to be
opened on March 5, 2008. Failure to extend the contract will delay the restructuring of
medical records which could delay billing and the collection of revenues, as well as
maintaining a complete and organized record of encounters with the patients. The expiration
date of the current contract was January 31, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $26,000.00. Contract extension: February 1, 2008 through April 30, 2008.
(897-350 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #43
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 17, 2007 from
JOHNNY C. BROWN, Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $65,500.00 to Liebert Global Services, Westerville,
Ohio, for the emergency purchase and installation of specialized battery cases to replace deteriorated
backup batteries for the hospital Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) for the Department of Hospital
Information Systems.
Reason:

It was discovered that many of the 160 batteries showed signs of severe deterioration during
the performance of routine maintenance services on the Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS)
in the Data Center. The computer system in the Data Center is an essential backbone to the
Health Information System operations of the Bureau of Health Services. Since this system
provides backup power to the Data Center, to maintain computer operations during a limited
power outage, it was critical and mandatory to replace these batteries immediately.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $65,500.00. (717/897-521 Account). Requisition No. 88974003.
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.

 page 44
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR
REPORTS
ITEM #44
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 10, 2008 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting our “Status of Audit Recommendations” report as of December 2007 for your review.
* * * * *
ITEM #45
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 11, 2008 from
LAURA A. BURMAN, C.P.A., Cook County Auditor
submitting herewith a copy of the Fiscal Year 2006 Cook County, Illinois Department of Human Services
Grant Report.

 page 45
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ITEM #46
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 10, 2008 from
DONNA L. DUNNINGS, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance
Subject:

Ordinance to Amend and Restate
Cook County’s Line of Credit Ordinance

requesting authorization for your approval an ordinance that amends and restates the existing line of
credit ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners on July 12, 2006. All terms and conditions in
the proposed ordinance are primarily unchanged from the existing line of credit ordinance except for the
extension of the latest maturity date of January 31, 2008 to November 30, 2010.
The extension of the County’s $200 million line of credit is necessary to support the timely payment of
general County expenditures in case of delays in the collection of county revenues.
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
An Ordinance amending and restating an ordinance authorizing the
execution of an agreement for a line of credit and related documents and
the issuance of one or more promissory notes in connection therewith.
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois provides that “a
County which has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the electors of the County ... (is) a Home Rule
Unit” and The County of Cook, Illinois (the “County”), has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the
electors of the County and is therefore a Home Rule Unit and may, under the power granted by said
Section 6(a) of Article VII of the Constitution of 1970, as supplemented by the Local Government Debt
Reform Act, as amended, the (“Act”), exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs, including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to incur debt; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the County has the power to incur debt payable from
any lawful source and maturing within 40 years from the time it is incurred without prior referendum
approval; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the “Board”) has not adopted any ordinance,
resolution, order or motion or provided any County Code provisions which restrict or limit the exercise of
the home rule powers of the County in the issuance of general obligation full faith and credit notes
without referendum for corporate purposes or which provides any special rules or procedures for the
exercise of such power; and
WHEREAS, the Board hereby expressly determines that it is pursuant to an Ordinance adopted on the
12th day of July, 2006 (the “Prior Authorizing Ordinance”), the Board heretofore determined it to be
advisable, necessary and in the best interests of the County that the County authorize the execution and
delivery of an agreement for a line of credit (the “Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the inhabitants of the County and necessary for the government
and affairs of the County also to authorize pursuant to the Prior Authorizing Ordinance the Board
authorized the issuance of one or more promissory notes (collectively, the “Note”) to evidence the
obligation to repay the principal of and interest on amounts drawn down by the County under such
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Prior Authorizing Ordinance provided for the execution of one or more Note Orders (as
hereinafter defined) setting forth certain details of any such agreement and note, all within certain
limitations (being, collectively, the “Prior Parameters”) and as set forth in the Prior Authorizing
Ordinance; and

 page 46
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #46 cont’d
WHEREAS, to date no such agreement has been executed and no note has been issued pursuant to the
Prior Authorizing Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Board now expressly determines that it is advisable and necessary that an agreement be
executed and that one or more such notes be issued; and
WHEREAS, to such end it is hereby deemed advisable and necessary that the Board now specify,
determine, amend and restate the Prior Parameters and amend and restate the Prior Authorizing
Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, to such end it is hereby deemed advisable and necessary that the Board now adopts this
Ordinance so to specify, determine and authorize.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of The County of Cook,
Illinois, as follows:
ARTICLE I.
Section 1.1.

DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS

Definitions:

A. The following words and terms are defined in the preambles hereto:
Act
Board
County
Prior Authorizing Ordinance
Prior Parameters
B. The following words and terms used in this Ordinance shall have the following meanings
unless the context or use indicates another or different meaning:
“Agreement” means that certain written agreement providing for the creation of a line of credit
for the County and the issuance of one or more Notes to evidence the obligation of the County to repay
amounts due and owing thereunder.
“Act” means Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, as
supplemented and amended by the Local Government Debt Reform Act of the State of Illinois, as
amended, and the other Omnibus Bond Acts, as amended.
Advance for Value means a receipt of funds by the County under the Agreement and relative to
the Note which is a loan advance on and partial purchase price consideration for the Note, to be
evidenced as provided in the Note form.
Agreement means the agreement to be executed by the County and providing for the advance of
funds to the County to defray the necessary expenses of the County for its corporate purposes. that certain
written agreement providing for the creation of a line of credit for the County and the issuance of one or
more Notes to evidence the obligation of the County to repay amounts due and owing thereunder.
“Board” means the Board of Commissioners of the County.
Chief Financial Officer means the Chief Financial Officer of the County.
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
“County” means The County of Cook, Illinois.

 page 47
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #46 cont’d
Designated Officer means the President, Chief Financial Officer or any other office or employee
of the County so designated by a written instrument signed by the President or the Chief Financial
Officer.
Face Amount means the authorized maximum amount of the Note, as stated on its face.
Fixed Rate Note means a Note bearing interest at a fixed rate percent per annum.
Floating Rate Note means a Note bearing interest at a rate percent per annum which is subject to
change from time to time, payable from time to time, and subject to various options for payment by the
owners thereof, as more fully provided for in the Agreement.
Maturity Date means the date on which the principal of the Note is due and owing under the
Agreement.
Note Order means the 2006 2008 Note Order and Notification of Sale to be executed by the Chief
Financial Officer and setting forth certain details of the Agreement and the Note as hereinafter provided.
Note Register means the books of the County kept by the Note Registrar to evidence the
registration and transfer of the Note.
Note Registrar means the institution or person so designated and defined in the Note Order, or
successors or assigns.
Ordinance means this Ordinance as originally introduced and adopted and as the same may from
time to time be amended or supplemented in accordance with the terms hereof.
Paying Agent means the institution, having fiduciary power, or person so designated and defined
in the Note Order, or successors or assigns.
Purchase Price means the price paid to the County by the Purchaser for the Note.
Purchaser means the purchaser of the Note as so identified in the Note Order.
Regular Record Date means the fifteenth day before any interest payment date on the Note or
such other date as may be provided in the Note Order.
Taxable means, with reference to the Note, the status of interest paid and received thereon as
includable in the gross income of the owners thereof under the Code for federal income tax purposes.
Tax Exempt means, with respect to the Note, the status of interest paid and received thereon as
excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof under the Code for federal income tax purposes,
except to the extent that such interest is taken into account in computing an adjustment used in
determining the alternative minimum tax for certain corporations.
Section 1.2.
Severability of Invalid Provisions: If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
Ordinance shall be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
affect any of the other provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 1.3.
Short Title: This Ordinance may hereafter be cited by the County or hereinafter referred
to as the “2006 2008 Line of Credit Ordinance.”

 page 48
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #46 cont’d
ARTICLE II. DETERMINATIONS OF THE COUNTY
Section 2.1.
Findings: The Board hereby finds and determines that (A) the Prior Authorizing
Ordinance shall be amended and restated as set forth in this Ordinance; (B) all of the recitals contained in
the preambles to this Ordinance are full, true and correct and hereby incorporates them into this
Ordinance by this reference; (B) (C) this Ordinance is adopted pursuant to Section 6 of Article VII of the
Illinois Constitution of 1970; (C) (D) it is necessary and in the best interests of the County that the County
adopt this Ordinance; (D) (E) it is necessary and in the best interests of the County that the Agreement be
executed so as to provide for the timely defraying of necessary expenses incurred by the County for its
corporate purposes; and (E) (F) the execution of the Agreement, the borrowing of money for the purposes
authorized therein and the issuance of the Note is for a proper public purpose and is in the public interest.
Section 2.2.
Execution of the Agreement Authorized: The County is hereby authorized to enter
into the Agreement with the Purchaser in such form as shall be approved by the Chief Financial Officer,
and by majority poll, not subject to ratification or cancellation by the Board or its members, of all
members of the Board, which form shall be as is deemed usual and customary in the municipal bond
market and may include, without limitation, terms providing for posted security for one or more Notes,
assignment of taxes, drawdown conditions, repayment provisions, and provisions for default, provided,
however, that in the event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of this Ordinance and the
Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Ordinance shall in all events control. The Chief Financial
Officer be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute, and his her execution thereof
shall constitute conclusive evidence of the approval of any and all terms contained in the Agreement by
the Board, and the County Clerk be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to attest the
Agreement in the name, for and on behalf of the County, and thereupon to cause the Agreement to be
delivered to the counterparty thereto. The Agreement (as executed) is entered into to provide for the loan
of the proceeds of the Note to the County and the use of such proceeds as aforesaid and to pay the costs of
issuing the Note, in the manner and with the effect therein provided. From and after the execution and
delivery of the Agreement, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby authorized,
empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be
necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the Agreement as executed; and the Agreement
shall constitute, and hereby is made, a part of this Ordinance, and a copy of the Agreement shall be placed
in the official records of the County, and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
County Clerk.
Section 2.3.
Note Authorized: For the purposes aforesaid, the Note is hereby authorized to be issued
as a drawdown note in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $200,000,000.
Section 2.4.
Note Details: The Note shall be issued in the principal amount of not to exceed
$200,000,000 and shall bear such title and series designation as the Chief Financial Officer shall
determine in the Note Order. The Note may be a Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note as provided in
the Note Order. The Note shall be dated as of the first Advance for Value on the Note or as otherwise
provided in the Agreement (any such date being the “Dated Date”), and the amount of the Note issued,
being the sum of the amounts as shown as Advances for Value on the Note, not in excess of the Face
Amount, less in each case principal payments made from time to time thereon, shall be the “Outstanding
Principal Amount” of the Note. The Outstanding Principal Amount of the Note from time to time
outstanding shall bear interest at not to exceed a rate percent per annum which is ten percent (10.00%),
with interest payable on such date or dates as provided in the Agreement, upon any prepayment and on
the Maturity Date. The Maturity Date shall be not later than January 31, 2008 November 30, 2010.
The Note shall bear interest on the Outstanding Principal Amount from time to time at the rate provided,
in each case from the time advanced until duly paid or provided for, such interest being computed upon
the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.

 page 49
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #46 cont’d
Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the interest on and all payments of principal of the Note shall
be payable in lawful money of the United States of America, or by electronic funds transfer of lawful
money of the United States of America, upon presentation at the office of the Note Registrar, provided,
however, that so long as a financial institution is the registered owner of the Note, then such payments
shall be made by check or draft of the Note Registrar to the person in whose name the Note is registered
as evidenced by the Note Register at the close of business on the applicable Regular Record Date, which
check or draft shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America and mailed to the address
or transferred to such account of such registered owner as it appears on the Note Register or at such other
address or account as may be furnished in writing to the Note Registrar, and provided, further, that the
final installment of principal of and interest on the Note shall be paid upon surrender in lawful money of
the United States of America, at the principal office maintained for the purpose by the Paying Agent or its
proper agent.
If so provided in the Note Order, the Note may be redeemable or prepayable prior to maturity at the
option of the County, in whole or in part on any date, upon such terms and at such times and at a
redemption or prepayment price of par plus accrued interest to the date of redemption or prepayment, as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof.
The Note shall have be substantially in the form attached to the Agreement and as approved by the Chief
Financial Officer, his her execution thereof to constitute approval of all terms set forth therein by the
Board, and shall have impressed or imprinted thereon the corporate seal or facsimile thereof of the
County and shall be signed by the manual or duly authorized facsimile signatures of the Chief Financial
Officer and County Clerk, as they shall determine, and in case any officer whose signature shall appear on
the Note shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of the Note, such signature shall nevertheless be
valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until delivery.
The execution by the County of the fully registered Note shall constitute full and due authorization of the
Note, and the Note Registrar shall thereby be authorized to authenticate, date and deliver the Note. The
person in whose name the Note shall be registered shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute owner
thereof for all purposes, and payment of the principal of or interest on the Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of the registered owner thereof or the owner’s legal representative. All such payments
shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability upon the Note to the extent of the sum or
sums so paid.
The Note shall have thereon a certificate of authentication duly executed by the Note Registrar as
authenticating agent of the County and showing the date of authentication. The Note shall not be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or be entitled to any security or benefit under this Ordinance unless and until
such certificate of authentication shall have been duly executed by the Note Registrar by manual
signature, and such certificate of authentication upon the Note shall be conclusive evidence that the Note
has been authenticated and delivered under this Ordinance. The certificate of authentication on the Note
shall be deemed to have been executed by the Note Registrar if signed by an authorized officer of the
Note Registrar.
Section 2.5.
Sale and Delivery of Note: The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell all
or any portion of the Note to the Purchaser from time to time as the Chief Financial Officer shall
determine that the proceeds of such sales are needed and on such terms as he may deem to be in the best
interests of the County. Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale of the Note or any
portion thereof or any maturity or maturities thereof at a price or prices in excess of the principal amount
thereof. Subsequent to the sale of the Note or subsequent to the sale of any portion thereof, the Chief
Financial Officer shall file in the office of the County Clerk a Note Order directed to the Board
identifying (i) the terms of the sale, (ii) the amount, if any, of the Note being sold as a Floating Rate Note,
(iii) the Dated Date, (iv) the aggregate principal amount of the Note sold, (v) the repayment schedule for
the principal of and interest on the Note, (vi) the optional redemption provisions, if any, applicable to the
Note, (vii) whether the Note is Tax Exempt or Taxable and (viii) any other matter authorized by this
Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale of the Note, and thereafter
the Note as so sold shall be duly prepared and executed in the form and manner provided herein and
delivered to the Purchaser in accordance with the terms of sale.

 page 50
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT continued
ITEM #46 cont’d
Any Designated Officer and such other officers of the County as may be necessary are hereby authorized
to execute such other documents, as may be necessary to implement the Agreement and the transactions
contemplated thereby and to effect the issuance and delivery of the Note, and execution thereof by such
officers is hereby deemed conclusive evidence of approval thereof with such changes, additions,
insertions, omissions or deletions as such officers may determine, with no further official action of or
direction by the Board.
Section 2.6.
General Tax Covenants Use of Proceeds: The proceeds of the Note shall be used to
provide funds for the payment of necessary expenses incurred for the general corporate purposes of the
County and to that end shall be set aside in the Working Cash Fund (the “Working Cash Fund”) and shall
be used to pay the general corporate expenses of the County in accordance with customary disbursement
procedures of the County.
Alternatively, the Chief Financial Officer may allocate the proceeds of the Note to one or more other
funds or accounts of the County now in existence. The County by its Board reserves the right, as it
becomes necessary from time to time, to change the purposes of expenditure of the Working Cash Fund
or its accounts, to change priorities, to revise cost allocations between expenditures and to substitute
projects, in order to meet current needs of the County; subject, however, to the provisions of the tax
covenants of the County relating to the Tax Exempt status of interest on the Note if it is issued as Tax
Exempt.
Section 2.7.
General Tax Covenants: In the event that the Note is issued as Tax Exempt, the
provisions of this Section shall apply. The County covenants that it will take no action with respect to the
proceeds of the Note which would result in making the interest payable on the Note subject to federal
income taxes by reason of the Note being classified as an “arbitrage bond” within the meaning of
Section 148 of the Code or rulings or regulations promulgated thereunder.
The County also agrees and covenants with the purchaser and registered owner of the Note from time to
time outstanding that, to the extent possible under Illinois law, it will comply with whatever federal tax
law is adopted in the future which applies to the Note and affects the status of the interest on the Note as
Tax Exempt, if the Note is issued as Tax Exempt; that without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
County agrees: (a) through its officers, to make such further specific covenants, representations and
assurances as may be necessary or advisable; (b) to comply with all representations, covenants and
assurances contained in a certification regarding tax exemption to be prepared by counsel approving the
Note; (c) to consult with such counsel and to comply with such advice as may be given; (d) to pay to the
United States, as necessary, such sums of money representing required rebates of excess arbitrage profits
relating to the Note; (e) to file such forms, statements and supporting documents as may be required and
in a timely manner; and (f) if deemed necessary or advisable by its officers, to employ and pay fiscal
agents, financial advisors, attorneys and other persons to assist the County in such compliance; and that
the County acknowledges that, in the event of an examination by the Internal Revenue Service of the
exemption from Federal income taxation for interest paid on the Note, under present rules, the County is
treated as the “taxpayer” in such examination.
Section 2.8.
Registered Form: The County agrees that it will not take any action to permit the Note,
if it is issued as Tax Exempt, to be issued in, or converted into, bearer or coupon form.
ARTICLE III. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 3.1.
Ratification of Acts: All acts of the Board, the Designated Officers and the officers and
employees of the County that are in conformity with the intent and purposes of this Ordinance, whether
heretofore or hereafter taken or done, be, and the same are hereby, in all respects, ratified, confirmed and
approved.
Section 3.2.
Superseder: All ordinances, resolutions, motions, orders or parts thereof in conflict with
this Ordinance including, specifically, the Prior Authorizing Ordinance, are, to the extent of such conflict,
hereby superseded. The Prior Authorizing Ordinance is hereby amended and restated as hereinabove set
forth.
Section 3.3.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be immediately operative, effective and valid upon
its passage and approval.

 page 51
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
RESOLUTION
ITEM #47
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 17, 2008 from
DONNA L. DUNNINGS, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance
and
JOSEPH M. FRATTO, County Comptroller
respectfully submitting a proposed resolution providing for the closing of accounts of the County of Cook
under the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2007 and providing for the continuation of
necessary payments of the County of Cook, Illinois pending passage of the annual Appropriation Bill for
the Fiscal Year 2008.
The proposed resolution is substantially in the form of the continuing resolution in effect for the prior
year approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on November 14, 2006. The proposed
resolution has been reviewed and approved by the Cook County State’s Attorney.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION providing for the closing of accounts of the County of
Cook, Illinois under the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year
2007 and providing for the continuation of necessary payments of the
County of Cook, Illinois pending passage of the Annual Appropriation
Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008
WHEREAS, the County will close out its accounts and render an account and make settlements for the
Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year of 2007; and
WHEREAS, prior to the adoption of an Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008 by the Board
of Commissioners of the County (the “Board”), it will be necessary and in the best interests of the County
to make expenditures and incur obligations to continue operations which are in addition to those
expenditures which may be approved from time to time at regular Board meetings held prior to the
adoption of the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008; and
WHEREAS, subsequent to the closing of accounts of the Fiscal Year 2007 and prior to the passage of an
Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008, the Cook County Board of Commissioners (“Board”)
wishes to authorize and direct the Comptroller of the County (the “Comptroller”) and the Treasurer of the
County (the “Treasurer”) to advance funds and pay such necessary continuing expenditures.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Incorporation of Preambles. The Board hereby finds that all of the recitals contained in the
Preambles of this Resolution are true and correct and does incorporate them into this Resolution by
reference.
Section 2. End of the Current Fiscal Year. The Comptroller is authorized and directed to close the
accounts of Cook County pursuant to the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2007 as of
November 30, 2007, at 12:00 o'clock midnight. All unexpended balances of said Appropriation Bill for
the Fiscal Year 2007 shall be placed to the credit of each specific fund.
Section 3. Establishment of Accounts. Pending passage of the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal
Year 2008 utilizing the classification of Standard Budgetary Accounts adopted by the County Board on
March 6, 1944, as amended from time to time, the Comptroller is authorized and directed to set up such
accounts as may be necessary to make payments as provided in this Resolution.

 page 52
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE continued
RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #47 cont’d
Section 4. Advancement of Salaries. Pending passage of the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal
Year 2008, the Comptroller and the Treasurer are authorized and directed to make arrangements to
advance and to continue to pay the salaries of the several officers and employees of the County, including
authorized overtime; provided, however, that any salaries paid pursuant to this Resolution shall not
exceed the salaries which were in effect as of November 30, 2007; and provided, further, that there shall
be no increase in the number of positions within each job classification in effect on November 30, 2007;
and provided, further, that no new employees shall be hired to fill vacancies in existing positions with the
exception of public safety and health positions and emergency hires approved by the President of the
Board.
Section 5. Payment of All Other Necessary Expenditures. Pending passage of the Annual
Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008, the Comptroller and the Treasurer are authorized and
directed to make arrangements to advance the payment of obligations of the County as follows:
1.

Payment of the following continuing obligations of the County: utilities; insurance premiums and
benefit/administration payments; payroll taxes; payments associated with payroll deductions;
invoices for contracted pharmaceutical supplies; leases; intergovernmental transfers; selfinsurance payments; and, court-ordered payments.

2.

Payment of purchases of materials, supplies and services involving expenditures in the amount of
Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) or less in accordance with County Ordinance and
existing procedures.

3.

Payments pursuant to grants and special purpose funds previously approved by the County.

Section 6. Capital Improvement Items. Unexpended Capital Improvement items appearing in the
Capital Improvement Section of the Appropriation Bill of Cook County for Fiscal Year 2007 shall not be
deemed to have lapsed at the end of Fiscal Year 2007. Funds specifically appropriated therein shall be
available until the adoption and approval of the Annual Appropriation Bill for the Fiscal Year 2008.
Section 7. Severability. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Resolution shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution.
Section 8. Effective Date. On January 9, 2008 the County Board approved a Continuing Resolution with
an effective date through and including February 6, 2008. This Resolution shall be effective February 7,
2008 through and including February 29, 2008.

 page 53
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES
REPORT
ITEM #48
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 31, 2007 from
JARESE A. WILSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
submitting a copy of the 30-Day Funding Performance Reporting that highlights performance data
associated with Cook County Departments’ Services, Activities and Programs. This report serves as an
introduction to Performance Budgeting for Cook County Residents, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners and County Management. It identifies the resources used by Cook County government
departments.
This report will provide the means to share data on a range of programs, benchmark the County’s
performance to comparable jurisdictions, and improve service delivery through the application of best
management practices and efficient use of resources. This initial report presents some of the measures
that departments are currently tracking and specifically looks at the use of funding in December 2007
only.

 page 54
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT
BID OPENING - COMMISSIONER COLLINS
ITEM #49
REFERRED TO RESPECTIVE DEPARTMENTS FOR REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION
Submitting for your consideration, bids which were opened under her supervision on Thursday, January
10, 2008 at 10:00 A.M., in the County Building, Chicago, Illinois.
BID OPENING - COMMISSIONER DALEY
ITEM #50
REFERRED TO RESPECTIVE DEPARTMENTS FOR REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION
Submitting for your consideration, bids which were opened under his supervision on Tuesday, January
22, 2008 at 10:00 A.M., in the County Building, Chicago, Illinois.
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
ITEM #51
RATIFIED
The following items were previously approved by poll on January 30, 2008:
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 28, 2008 from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
I am requesting authorization to poll the Cook County Board of Commissioners for the execution of the
following agreement that was scheduled for approval on the January 23, 2008 Contracts and Bonds
Letter, which is listed below.
Contract No. 08-41-76A
IBM Corporation
Agreement
For Procurement, Mainframe Hardware, Software and Other Related Items, for the Cook County Bureau
of Information Technology and Automation, for a period of thirty-six (36) months, as authorized by the
Board of Commissioners 12/4/07.
The department has stated that the above agreements need to be executed by the end of January or
additional fees will be added. Please note the additional fees have not been incorporated into the current
budget recommendations.
In accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(b) Emergency polling, the vote on the poll taken
January 28, 2008 of the Board of Commissioners is as follows: 12 Yeas; 2 Nays (Commissioners Collins
and Moreno); 1 Present (Commissioner Steele); and 2 Absent (Commissioners Goslin and Quigley).
* * * * *
ITEM #52
RATIFIED
The following items were previously approved by poll on January 30, 2008:
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 28, 2008 from
CARMEN K. TRICHE-COLVIN, Purchasing Agent
I am requesting authorization to poll the Cook County Board of Commissioners for the execution of the
following agreement that was scheduled for approval on the January 23, 2008 Contracts and Bonds
Letter, which is listed below.

 page 55
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT continued
CONTRACTS AND BONDS continued
ITEM #52 cont’d
Contract No 08-41-76B
IBM Credit, LLC
Agreement
For Financing of Mainframe Hardware, Software and Other Related Items, for the Cook County Bureau
of Information Technology and Automation, for the contract sum of $11,660,959.00, for a period of
thirty-six (36) months, as authorized by the Board of Commissioners 12/4/07.
The department has stated that the above agreements need to be executed by the end of January or
additional fees will be added. Please note the additional fees have not been incorporated into the current
budget recommendations.
In accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(b) Emergency polling, the vote on the poll taken
January 28, 2008 of the Board of Commissioners is as follows: 11 Yeas; 2 Nays (Commissioners Collins
and Moreno); 2 Present (Commissioners Silvestri and Steele); and 2 Absent (Commissioners Goslin and
Quigley).
* * * * *
ITEM #53
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting contracts and bonds executed by the contractors for approval and execution as requested by
the Purchasing Agent.

 page 56
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
AGREEMENT
ITEM #54
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
MARK KILGALLON, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into an agreement with Enbridge Gas Services
(U.S.), Inc., Appleton, Wisconsin, for the procurement and delivery of natural gas for the County’s
heating and cooling needs.
Reason:

To participate in the deregulated natural gas market, Enbridge Gas Services (U.S.), Inc. will
act as the exclusive agent for all matters related to the procurement an delivery of natural gas
an execute all documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of
the Illinois Commerce Commission’s conditions of service for public utilities serving Cook
County for customer owned gas.
On July 31, 2007 the Board of Commissioners authorized the Bureau of Administration to
solicit proposals through a Request for Proposal (RFP) process for the procurement and
delivering of natural gas. Request for Proposals (RFP) were issued resulting in the
submission of six responses. Evaluation of the proposals was based upon the (1) margin cost
per therm above the index cost of natural gas, (2) firm’s experience, (3) firm’s financial
stability and credit rating, and (4) firm’s ability to meet the MBE/WBE requirements of the
County.
Enbridge Gas Services (U.S.), Inc. has been selected as the most risk free and lowest cost
qualified proposer based on the RFPs. By turning over the management of the County’s gas
storage, Enbridge Gas Services (U.S.), Inc. proposes a discount of $0.002 per therm below the
index cost and $0.003 per therm below a fixed cost. The County currently uses an average of
13.7 million therms per year resulting in an estimated annual savings of $35,684.00 from the
NGI Index cost of natural gas. The County’s estimated FY 2008 natural gas costs are $15.9
million.
With approval of the service agreement herein, respectfully request that the Chief
Administrative Officer, or his designee, be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of
Cook, all documents necessary to implement and administer the service agreement.

All natural gas costs will be charged against the annual appropriation for the utility gas funds for each
using department. Contract period: May 1, 2008 through April 30, 2012. (499-422, 500-422, 564-422,
891-422, 894-422, 897-422 and 898-422 Accounts). Requisition No. 84900010.

AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ADVERTISE FOR BID
ITEM #55
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 10, 2008 from
MARK KILGALLON, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
requesting authorization for the Cook County Board of Commissioners to approve as amended the
following item, which was previously approved at the December 18, 2007 Board Meeting (Agenda Item
#39), to accurately reflect the type of vehicles.
The underscored language indicates the amendment.

 page 57
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION continued
AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
ADVERTISE FOR BID continued
ITEM #55 cont’d
Transmitting a Communication from
MARK KILGALLON, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for the purchase of two (2) hybrid
mid-size replacement vehicles.
One time purchase. (717/011-549 Account). Requisition No. 80110075.
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
The Vehicle Steering Committee concurs with this recommendation.

 page 58
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES
ITEM #56
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 21, 2007 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
the construction of the Aquatic Park Pool at Cermak Family Aquatic Park, 7600 West Ogden Avenue,
Lyons, Illinois in Lyons Township, County Board District #16.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

071687
$33,303.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $33,303.00.
* * * * *
ITEM #57
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 21, 2007 from
DONALD H. WLODARSKI, Commissioner, Department of Building and Zoning
respectfully request the granting of a No Fee Permit for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County for
the construction of a new Little Red School House Nature Center, 9800 Willow Springs Road, Willow
Springs, Illinois in Palos Township, County Board District #17.
Permit #:
Requested Waived Fee Amount (100%):

071493
$25,791.00

This request is pursuant to the County Board's adoption of Ordinance No. 91-O-45 on September 16,
1991 that all building and zoning permit fees be waived for public entities defined as county, township,
municipality, municipal corporation, school district, forest preserve district, park district, fire protection
district, sanitary district, library district and all other local governmental bodies.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $25,791.00.
90% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED:
90% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2008 TO PRESENT:

0
$3,713.02

100% WAIVED REQUESTS TO BE APPROVED
100% WAIVED REQUESTS APPROVED FISCAL YEAR 2008 TO PRESENT:

$59,094.00
$88,116.66

 page 59
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #58
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
RUPERT F. GRAHAM, JR., P.E., Superintendent of Highways
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to extend for one (1) year, Contract Purchase Order No.
149969 with King Transmissions Company, Inc., Elmhurst, Illinois, for repair of various automatic model
transmissions.
Reason:

This request is necessary to expend the remaining funds on this contract. Approximately
$34,000.00 remains on this contract. The expiration date of the current contract was January
17, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: January 18, 2008 through January 17, 2009.

SECOND AMENDMENT TO AN INDIVIDUAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
ITEM #59
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) SECOND AMENDMENT TO AN INDIVIDUAL PROJECT
AGREEMENT/RESOLUTION:
1. Second Amendment to an Individual Project Agreement between the County of Cook and the City of
Chicago
111th Street,
Halsted Street to Cottage Grove Avenue
in the City of Chicago in County Board District #5
Section: 05-B7233-02-RS
Centerline Mileage: 1.69 miles
Fiscal Impact: $350,000.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Board approved amount 07-12-05:
Previous increase approved 05-01-07:
This increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$1,210,000.00
157,300.00
350,000.00
$1,717,300.00

Previously, your Honorable Body approved an Agreement on July 12, 2005 in the amount of
$1,210,000.00, followed by an amendment on May 1, 2007 in the amount of $157,300.00 (first
amended total $1,367,300.00), wherein the City of Chicago was the lead agency for construction of
the improvement and the County would reimburse the City for construction, force account
construction and construction engineering costs. This amendment provides for reimbursement to the
City of Chicago for additional construction costs (estimated $350,000.00) resulting from additional
bus pad installations and additional sidewalk work related to compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act, incurred for the improvement of 111th Street from Halsted Street to Cottage Grove
Avenue, Section: 05-B7233-02-RS (amended total improvement cost $1,717,300.00).

 page 60
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
ITEM #60
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval ONE (1) SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT/RESOLUTION:
1. Letter of Supplemental Agreement between the County of Cook and Knight E/A, Inc.
Additional engineering services
119th Street,
Kedzie Avenue to Western Avenue
in the Cities of Blue Island and Chicago and in the Village of Merrionette Park in County Board
Districts #5, 6 and 11
Section: 88-B7430-02-RP
Centerline Mileage: 1.04 miles
Fiscal Impact: $82,621.00 from the Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-600 Account)
Board approved amount 03-09-00:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:

$356,151.00
82,621.00
$438,772.00

Previously, your Honorable Body approved an Agreement on March 9, 2000 with the aforesaid
consultant in the amount of $356,151.00 as part of the 119th Street from Kedzie Avenue to Western
Avenue improvement (Section: 88-B7430-02-RP). This supplement is for multiple studies of
intersection alignment of 119th Street at Kedzie Avenue, study various roadway alignments and
section alternates in efforts to address the Village of Robins watermain issue, review of preliminary
plans for the proposed watermain, analyze various geometric alternates and evaluate right-of-needs
for the inclusion of a left turn bay and possible right turn lane at the proposed golf course
development and other work as described in said Agreement for County’s above referenced project
with engineering services required to complete tasks that were requested by this department but were
not included in the original contract and is in the amount of $82,621.00.

COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL RESOLUTIONS
ITEM #61
APPROVED
Submitting for your approval TWO (2) COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL
RESOLUTIONS:
1. Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
123rd Street,
Kedzie Avenue to Grand Trunk Western Railroad;
123rd Street at Cicero Avenue;
123rd Street at Kedzie Avenue; and
Pulaski Road at 126th Street
in the City of Blue Island and the Village of Alsip in County Board District #6
Section: 04-B7530-01-FP
Final Cost: $5,666,413.34
2. Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Group 2-2005:
Ridgeland Avenue,
Francisco Avenue over the Cal-Sag Channel
in the City of Palos Heights and the Village of Worth in County Board Districts #6 and 17
Section: 01-W3714-04-BR
Final Cost: $1,825,759.93

 page 61
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT continued
CONTRACTS AND BONDS
ITEM #62
APPROVED
Submitting Contracts and Bonds properly executed by the Contractors.

REPORT
ITEM #63
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON ROADS & BRIDGES #292099
Submitting the Bureau of Construction's Progress Report for the month ending December 31, 2007.

 page 62
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
JUDICIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
GRANT AWARD
ITEM #64
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 27, 2007 from
DANIEL J. COUGHLIN, Executive Director, Judicial Advisory Council
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $594,925.00 for the Federal Fiscal Year
2005 Juvenile Accountability Block Grant. This renewal agreement provides Cook County with
$594,925.00 for the continuation of Project Reclaim. The required cash match of $66,103.00 will be
charged to the Judicial Advisory Council’s FY 2007 grant matching account. This grant is automatically
renewed by the grantor and therefore, no application process was required.
The proposed services supported by this grant include a wide range of initiatives provided to 10 to 17year-old high-risk youth with the goal of improving the safety of the community by reducing recidivism
of juvenile offenders. Funding for Project Reclaim has enabled the improvement of the depth and variety
of services offered to minors in areas such as intensive individual and family counseling, substance abuse
counseling, drug testing and mentoring.
The authorization to accept the previous grant award was given by the Board of Commissioners on June
20, 2006 in the amount of $412,644.00. Authorization to accept two supplemental grant awards were
given on May 15, 2007 in the amount of $107,503.00 and on July 31, 2007 in the amount of $135,017.00.
The total cash match for these awards was $72,796.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: $66,103.00. Grant Award: $594,925.00. Funding period: November 27, 2007
through November 26, 2008. (205-818 Account).
The Budget Department has reviewed this item, and all requisite documents have been submitted.

 page 63
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #65
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
DAVID W. FOLEY, Executive Director, Office of the Medical Examiner
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids for cartage and burial of cadavers.
Contract period: March 15, 2008 through March 14, 2010. (259-237 Account). Requisition No.
82590011.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

 page 64
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE OF EMPLOYMENT TRAINING
GRANT AWARD
ITEM #66
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
KAREN S. CRAWFORD, Director, President’s Office of Employment Training
requesting authorization to accept a grant award in the amount of $67,754.00 from the Illinois Department
of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (DCEO). The purpose of the grant is to cover the installation of
a grant management accounting package which includes general ledger, cash management and fixed asset
software for eight (8) users along with training, consulting and file conversion fees. The system puts
POET in compliance with the State’s requirement for a grant management system that has greater
reporting capabilities and is compatible with accounting systems used by other local workforce areas,
specifically LWIA #8, Northern Cook County.
This is an entitlement grant and does not require an application process.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $67,754.00. Funding period: July 1, 2007 through June
30, 2008.
The Budget Department has reviewed this item, and all requisite documents have been submitted.

 page 65
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION
DECLARATION OF EXCESS LAND
ITEM #67
WITHDRAWN
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 14, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting authorization to have certain property declared as “excess” by the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County, to conduct an appraisal of the property and to negotiate with the Town of Cicero for the
sale of the property by Quit Claim Deed. The interest of the Town of Cicero in this land is to facilitate
future redevelopment of the Cicero Avenue corridor at 31st Street. Upon completion of appraisals and
negotiation of terms of sale, this transaction will be presented to this Board for approval in accordance
with the Local Government Property Transfer Act (50 ILCS 605/1 et seq).
The subject property encompasses a portion of the southwest and northwest frontage roads located south
of 31st Street just east of Cicero Avenue in County Board District #7. The land being an area of
approximately + 87,321 square feet (2.004 acres), in the West 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 34,
Township 39 North, Range 13, in the Town of Cicero, Cook County, Illinois.
It has been determined by all agencies involved that the subject property is no longer needed for County
purposes and can be released for sale.
Approval recommended.

LEASE AGREEMENT
ITEM #68
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 14, 2008 from
RAYMOND MULDOON, Director, Real Estate Management Division
requesting approval of the lease agreement between the County of Cook, as Tenant and Mr. Albert
Pontrelli, as Landlord for the use of space at 2138 South 61st Court, Cicero, Illinois, by the President’s
Office of Employment Training (POET). POET shall use and occupy the premises for a One-Stop Career
Center to provide employment and training services to the employer and client community in the West
Suburbs. These services are provided at no cost to the County. Funding is provided through the Work
Force Investment Account. Details are:
Landlord:
Tenant:
Using Agency:
Location:
Term:
Termination:
Space Occupied:
Base Rent:

Albert Pontrelli (d/b/a the Olympic Building)
County of Cook
President’s Office of Employment Training (POET)
2138 South 61st Court, Suites 300 and 301
Cicero, Illinois 60804
02/01/08 through 01/31/11
90 days written notice
12,355 square feet
02/01/08 - 01/31/09 $8,000.00 per month / $ 96,000.00 annually
02/01/09 - 01/31/10 $8,240.00 per month / $ 98,880.00 annually
02/01/10 - 01/31/11 $8,487.00 per month / $101,844.00 annually

Approval recommended.

 page 66
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND AUTOMATION
CONTRACT ADDENDUM
ITEM #69
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
ANTONIO HYLTON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Information Technology and Automation
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to increase by $640,000.00 and extend for four (4)
months, Contract No. 05-41-596 with Sentinel Technologies, Inc., Downers Grove, Illinois, for technical,
consulting, management and staffing services for the Cook County wide area network (WAN). The Cook
County WAN is the computer network which allows Cook County agencies/departments, 120
municipalities, numerous federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and the Homeland Security
Interoperability Wireless Initiative to connect to each other.
Board approved amount 04-06-05:
Increase requested:
Adjusted amount:
Reason:

$1,625,000.00
640,000.00
$2,265,000.00

A contract extension and increase is being requested in order to cover wide area network
maintenance during the time that a Request for Proposal is being performed, and also to cover
additional charges for wide area network maintenance services. The expiration date of the
current contract is April 30, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $640,000.00. Contract extension: May 1, 2008 through August 30, 2008.
(490-220 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

 page 67
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #70
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Transmitted herewith for your approval is a request for authorization for the Purchasing Agent to
advertise for bids for the renovation and build out at Bureau of Health Services Administration Building
and Stroger Hospital of Cook County Auditorium. It is respectfully requested that this Honorable Body
approve this request.
Reason:

This project will require a contractor to obtain all regulatory and construction permits, and
provide all labor, equipment and materials necessary to properly renovate and build out the
two spaces. The scope of this project will require general construction, plumbing and
electrical work.

Bond Issue (28000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.
APPROVAL OF PAYMENT
ITEM #71
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 7, 2008 from
BRUCE WASHINGTON, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
requesting approval of payment in the amount of $41,444.40 to Anchor Mechanical, Chicago, Illinois to
repair boilers at the Hektoen and Durand Buildings.
Reason:

It was critical that the two (2) boilers were repaired and put into operation to preclude a noheat event, if by chance the remaining boiler fails for whatever reason.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $41,444.40. Bond Issue (28000 Account).
Sufficient funds have been appropriated to cover this request.

 page 68
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH
ITEM #72
RECEIVED & FILED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 14, 2008 from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
After reviewing the December 2007 applications for the Employee of the Month I am proud to present
Mr. Marty Grant, Bureau Director of Pharmacy. Highlights are the following:
1.

$2.3 million or a 40% reduction in Bureau Pharmacy overtime; and

2.

$18 million or a 20% reduction in Bureau pharmaceutical expenses; and

3.

$10 million Bureau Drug Manufacturer Assistant Program (MAP) savings; and

4.

Started Medicare D billing with over $3.3 million collected; and

5.

Reduction in prescription wait times at Stroger Hospital of Cook County and Fantus Clinic from
7-10 days in 2006 to same day for Emergency Rooms pharmaceuticals and 24-48 hours for other
pharmaceuticals in 2007; and

6.

Elimination of filing out of County pharmaceuticals on 12/01/07 with anticipated yearly
pharmaceutical costs savings of $5 million.

RESOLUTION
ITEM #73
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith is an Interest Arbitration decision concerning American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) representing County Police Officers for your consideration
and approval.
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST: $4,000,216.00. (499-115 Account).
ESTIMATED COST TO IMPLEMENT WAGE INCREASES:
Fiscal Year 2005
Fiscal Year 2006
Fiscal Year 2007
Fiscal Year 2008
Bonus

$ 276,199.00
$ 560,711.00
$ 795,698.00
$1,017,309.00
$ 225,000.00

Total Estimated Cost:

$2,874,917.00

ESTIMATED COST TO ADJUST STEPS:
$1,125,299.00

 page 69
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES continued
RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #73 cont’d
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Sheriff and the County of Cook, as joint employers, and the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) representing County Police Officers have entered
into Compulsory Interest Arbitration under Section 14 of the Illinois Public Relations Act; and
WHEREAS, an Interest Arbitration Award has been issued concerning unresolved salary issues covering
the period December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2008.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that this award be submitted for your approval by the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County.

 page 70
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
GRANT RENEWAL APPLICATION
ITEM #74
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization to apply for a grant renewal in the amount of $117,000.00 from the Illinois
Violence Prevention Authority. This grant will provide funding for the court’s Family Violence
Coordinating Councils program. Since the program began in 1996, the court has established six (6)
councils, one in each of the five (5) suburban municipal districts, and one (1) countywide. These councils
provide local forums to improve the institutional and professional response to family violence issues.
Their activities cover education, prevention, and coordination of intervention and other services for
victims and perpetrators of child abuse, domestic violence, and elder abuse.
This grant does not require a cash match.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant Award: $117,000.00. Funding period: January 1, 2008 through
December 31, 2008.
The Budget Department has reviewed this item, and all requisite documents have been submitted.

CONTRACT
ITEM #75
APPROVED AS AMENDED
Transmitting a Communication from
TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with Youth Outreach Services,
Inc. (YOS) of Chicago, Illinois. to provide services to the court’s new “Redeploy Illinois” program,
which is part of the state-wide grant initiative to divert high risk juvenile offenders who would otherwise
face incarceration to community-based sanctions and treatment alternatives.
Reason:

This increase and extension is recommended to conform the contract with the period of the
related grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. It is requested that YOS be
designated as a sole provider for this contract due to the short term of the contract and the
proven track record of YOS in currently providing an extensive array of services to minor
wards of the court under grant-funded county contract No. 06-41-746. The expiration of the
current contract was June 30, 2007.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $372,621.07. Contract period: January 1, 2008
through June 30, 2008. (816-260 Account). Requisition No. 88160001.

 page 71
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
ITEM #76
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON RULES & ADMINISTRATION #292100
JOURNAL
(December 18, 2007)
DAVID ORR, Cook County Clerk presented in printed form a record of the Journal of the Proceedings of
the meeting held on Tuesday, December 18, 2007.
* * * * *
ITEM #77
REFERRED TO THE COMMITTEE ON RULES & ADMINISTRATION #292101
JOURNAL
(January 9, 2008)
DAVID ORR, Cook County Clerk presented in printed form a record of the Journal of the Proceedings of
the meeting held on Wednesday, January 9, 2008.

 page 72
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
APPOINTMENT
ITEM #78
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 2, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
please be advised that I wish to appoint Mr. John Dalicandro to serve as a member of the Cook County
Sheriff’s Merit Board effectively immediately. Mr. Dalicandro will replace Mr. Donald J. Storino II who
has resigned from the Merit Board.
Mr. Dalicandro’s term will expire on the third Monday in March 2011.
Pursuant to Chapter 55 ILCS 5/3-7002, I hereby request the advice and consent of the Board of
Commissioners relative to the appointment of Mr. Dalicandro.

GRANT AWARD ADDENDUM
ITEM #79
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
WILLIE WINTERS, Executive Director, Jail Diversion and Crime Prevention Division
requesting authorization to accept a supplemental grant in the amount of $12,792.00 from the State of
Illinois Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Community Health Prevention. The
purpose of this grant is to continue IN-TOUCH: the Sheriff’s Substance Abuse Primary Prevention
Program. This initiative provides alcohol, tobacco and other drug abuse prevention services in west
suburban Cook County.
The authorization to accept the original grant was given on June 19, 2007 by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in the amount of $154,000.00.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Supplemental Grant Award: $12,792.00.
The Budget Department has reviewed this item, and all requisite documents have been submitted.

CONTRACT
ITEM #80
RATIFIED
The following item was previously approved by poll on January 30, 2008:
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 16, 2008 from
THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
by
ALEXIS A. HERRERA, Budget Director
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into an interim contract with Aramark
Correctional Services, Inc., to provide Commissary Management Services at the Cook County
Department of Corrections.

 page 73
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF continued
CONTRACT continued
ITEM #80 cont’d
Reason:

This interim contract will allow the Sheriff’s Office to continue to provide commissary
services at the Cook County Department of Corrections and allow sufficient time for the
rebid, evaluation and award of a new contract. Aramark Correctional Services, Inc. has
agreed to continue providing Commissary Management Services on this interim basis at a
commission rate of 28%. There is no fiscal impact to the County for this contract.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract period: February 1, 2008 through May 31, 2008.
In accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(b) Emergency polling, the vote on the poll taken
January 30, 2008 of the Board of Commissioners is as follows: 15 Yeas; and 2 Absent (Commissioners
Goslin and Quigley).

 page 74
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
PENDING LITIGATION
ITEM #81
REFERRED TO THE LITIGATION SUBCOMMITTEE
Transmitting a Communication, dated January 14, 2008 from
PATRICK T. DRISCOLL, JR., Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
respectfully request permission to discuss the following cases with the Board or the appropriate
committee thereof:
1. Suzanne Castle-Brown v. County of Cook, et al., Case No. 07-L-183
#292102
2. Lois Pitroski v. Sheahan, et al., Case No. 06-L-2634
#292103
3. Michael Rivera v. Michael Sheahan, Former Sheriff of Cook County, in his official capacity, and
Cook County, Case No. 07-L-5726
#292104
4. Channette Carpenter v. County of Cook, et al., Case No. 07-C-6918
#292105
5. Marvin Chapman v. Cook County, et al., Case No. 06-C-4366
#292106
6. Adonay Lara v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 06-C-669
#292107
7. Mark Richardson v. CCDOC, et al., Case No. 07-C-5341
#292108
8. Shaunte Robertson v. Thomas Dart, et al., Case No. 07-C-4398
#292109
9. Commonwealth Edison v. Illinois Commerce Commission, Case No. 2-06-1284
#292110

 page 75
BOARD ACTION AGENDA
Meeting of February 6, 2008

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY TREASURER
PERMISSION TO ADVERTISE
ITEM #82
APPROVED
Transmitting a Communication from
MARIA PAPPAS, Cook County Treasurer
by
MICHAEL J. SHINE, Chief Deputy Treasurer
requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to advertise for bids to provide armored car service.
Contract period: September 1, 2008 through August 31, 2010. (060-214 Account). Requisition No.
80600004.
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.
* * * * *
The next regularly scheduled meeting is presently set for Wednesday, February 20, 2008.

 