Bureau of Human Resources
FY2013 Budget Presentation
October 23, 2012
032-Department of Human Resources
002-Department of Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues
019-Employee Appeals Board

 Bureau of Human Resources Management Team
FY2013 Bureau of Finance Budget Presentation
Bureau of Human
Resources

Maureen T.
O’Donnell
Bureau Chief

Labor Relations

Lisa Meador
Deputy Bureau Chief

HR Information
Systems

Barbara Pryor
Director

Bureau of Human
Resources

Non-Exempt
Administration

Theresa Larkin

Letitia Dominici

Deputy Bureau Chief

Training &
Employment
Development

Thomas Conway
Manager

Compliance Officer

EEOC/AAP

Mary Robinson
Officer

Human Rights, Ethics
and Women’s Issues

MaryNic Foster
Executive Director

TBD

Human Rights,
Ethics and
Women’s Issues

Human Rights,
Ethics and
Women’s Issues

Manager

Frank Gardner

TBD

Legal Counsel

Deputy Director

Benefits

1

 Bureau of Human Resources – FY2013 budget highlights
FY2013 Budget Presentation
•

Establish a professional human resources management system that provides the necessary
flexibility and management control to ensure the delivery of quality public services
 Continue implementation of Employment Plan
 Implement on-line training to provide an efficient means of educating employees
 Administer the employee selection process, ensure that job descriptions accurately
reflect job duties and qualifications, and develop and implement pay plans
 Continue to establish uniform policies and procedures across Cook County government
•Continue to strengthen Labor Management and Employee Relations
 Finalize (4) four remaining 2008-2012 collective bargaining agreements, through interest
arbitrations
 Streamline the third step grievance process
 Bolster management efforts to improve service delivery and performance
 Finalize labor strategy for upcoming negotiations

2

 Bureau of Human Resources – FY2013 budget highlights
FY2013 Budget Presentation
•

Fully implement shared resources model with Cook County Health and Hospital Systems
 Complete 1115 Medicaid Waiver
 Post all CCHHS job opportunities
 Support development and implementation of Employment Plan
 Provide Employment Plan training of health system employees
 Continue Labor negotiations and support labor management relations
 Investigate and resolve EEO complaints

•

Ensure continued focus on Absence Management
 Selection of third party administrator targeted for 1st quarter 2013
 Train supervisors on reporting tool and appropriate management practices
 Promote a wellness focus to support absence management

•

Resources
 Six (6) positions transferred from CCHHS to support shared services and additional
responsibilities pursuant to the Employment Plan (2 EEO investigators, 1 Senior Labor
Counsel, 1 Training Coordinator, 1 Deputy Compliance Officer and 1 Recruitment and
Selection Analyst)
 Transfer of Benefits Manager from Risk to support Wellness initiatives
 Transfer of 11 FTEs from Human Rights, Ethics and Women’s Issues
3

 Bureau of Human Resources – FY2012 overview
FY2013 Budget Presentation
•

Employment Plan Compliance
 Filed Employment Plan for Offices Under the President; Plan approved on March
19, 2012
 Designed and implemented Employment Plan Compliance Training programs; Over
2,000 employees trained
 Initiated County-wide user groups to provide a knowledge exchange for Taleo
administrators

•

Recruitment
 Established an EEO office to investigate and resolve employee related EEO
complaints as well as evaluate ADA accommodations
 Facilitated hiring of 263 positions at CCHHS and over 130 in Offices Under the
President
 Implementation of 1115 Medicaid Waiver plan

•

Key Performance Indicators
 Average number of days to fill vacancies from Request to Hire to effective start date
of hire reduced from 115 days to below 100 days.
 Completed negotiations for 91 out of 95 collective bargaining agreements.
Remaining CBA’s are scheduled for interest arbitration.
4

 Bureau of Human Resources – FY2012 overview
FY2013 Budget Presentation

•

Key Performance Indicators - continued
 Resolved approximately 180 3rd step grievances. Resolved 32 arbitration matters prior
to hearing. Conducted 25 arbitration hearings
 Developed absence management reporting tool to assist supervisors in monitoring
absence
 Launched Wellness program in collaboration with Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Risk
Management and the Office of the President and conducted county-wide health fairs to
promote Wellness and reduce absenteeism

•

Identified $5.3M in cost savings opportunities for HMO migration

5

 032-Department of Human Resources
FY2013 Budget Presentation

Mission

Budget and staffing

To ensure that the Offices Under the
President attract and retain motivated,
well qualified County employees. To
provide management with the personnel
tools needed manage the workforce
effectively. To enforce fair hiring and
promotion practices, free of discrimination
in all of its forms.

*A total of six (6) positions have been transferred from CCHHS to enable the Bureau to meet the shared service
performance goals. The BHR will receive salary reimbursements totaling $195, 658; $70,658 for the Employee
Benefits Manager position and $125,000 for the Director of Human Resources Information Systems position.

6

 032-Department of Human Resources – 2013 STAR goals and
targets
FY2013 Budget Presentation

STAR Performance Data
FY2011
Actual

FY2012
Projected YE

FY2013
Target

115

100

90

N/A

2,400

2,400

Improve collective bargaining & grievance
processes
• % of 3rd step hearings ≤ 30 days from receipt
to hearing.

27%

75%

75%

Improve collective bargaining & grievance
processes
• % of 3rd step hearings ≤ 30 days from hearing.

39%

90%

100%

Performance metric
Recruit & retain the best qualified employees
•Average number of days to fill vacancies from
request to hire to effective start date of hire.
Ensure Employment Plan Compliance for
Offices Under the President
•# of employees trained on the Employment
Plan.

7

 Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues – FY2013 budget highlights
FY2013 Budget Presentation
•

Recognition and celebration of the 20th year anniversary of the Cook County Human
Rights Ordinance – 20th year as an independent civil rights enforcement agency whose
jurisdiction extends throughout all of Cook County. Community event will include sister
civil rights agencies, advocacy organizations and former Human Rights Commission
members.

•

Increase awareness throughout Cook County and improve compliance with the Human
Rights Ordinance.

•

Focus on fair housing outreach, education and enforcement activities, geared toward
exploration of achieving “substantial equivalency” with the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development.

•

October 2012 Public Hearing, “Incarcerated Females – Breaking the Cycle” – facilitating
2013 Cook County Board district presentations and follow-up, and publication of Public
Hearing Report and recommendations.

•

Continued and expanding training initiatives for Cook County public officials, employees,
and Cook County businesses, in Ethics, Workplace Violence Prevention, Sexual
Harassment Prevention and Human Rights Ordinance compliance.
8

 Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues – FY2012 overview
FY2013 Budget Presentation



Conducted in person training for over 1300 Cook County employees on the County’s Sexual 
Harassment Prevention Policy and on compliance with the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance.  In 
addition, responded to a request from the Office of the Cook County State’s Attorney for in person 
training for 200 State’s Attorneys on the same subject matter.  



Assisted in education and outreach programs sponsored by the Cook County Department of Planning 
and Development for sub‐grantees/recipients of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Community Development and Block Grant monies, on issues related to affirmatively furthering fair 
housing in Cook County.



Hosted the 15th Annual Unsung Heroine Awards and Breakfast at the Chicago Cultural Center, this 
event was attended by over 350 individuals.  The Awards, presented in March for Women’s History 
month, honor 18 women or girls from Cook County for their previously unheralded efforts and 
achievements in their communities.  

9

 Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues – FY2012 overview
FY2013 Budget Presentation



Co‐sponsored with various women’s organizations and governmental entities events such as the 
annual “Equal Pay Day Rally” at the Daley Plaza – events such as these and others have drawn over 
400 attendees or participants from the general public.



Conducted in person training for over 600 Cook County employees on the Cook County Ethics
Ordinance, the Board also began full-scale implementation of the County’s first online ethics
training program for employees under the Office of the President. Online ethics training in
2012 has reached over 1500 Cook County employees.

10

 Department of Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues
FY2013 Budget Presentation
Mission

Budget and staffing

The Department serves Cook County elected
and appointed officials, Cook County employees,
and the people of Cook County.
The
Department’s mission is defined by the
numerous Ordinances and Resolutions that the
Department is responsible for enforcing. Each
Ordinance expressly assigns authority and
responsibility for enforcement with the executive
director and its respective independent Boards or
Commissions.
Human Rights, Chapter 42,
Article II, county-wide civil rights protection
(employment, housing, public accommodations,
credit, County services) for all people who live
and work in Cook County; Ethics, Chapter 2,
Article VII and Contingency Fund Guidelines,
Chapter 34, Article IV, compliance with the Code
of Ethical Conduct for Cook County public
officials, elected and appointed, lobbyists,
County vendors, and County employees; and,
11

 Department of Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues
FY2013 Budget Presentation
Mission - Continued
the Resolution Creating a Commission on
Women’s Issues, Cook County elected officials
and other interested stakeholders take into
account the unique issues and concerns facing
women and girls in Cook County in the
development and implementation of all policies
and programs.

12

 002-Human Rights, Ethics & Women’s Issues – 2013 STAR goals and targets
FY2013 Budget Presentation

STAR Performance Data
FY2011
Actual

FY2012
Projected YE

FY2013
Target

• Number of cases (at investigations and other) closed

83

75

75

• Number of new CCHR complaints filed in fiscal year

49

65

65

921

780

800

100

1275

2200

12

9

32

Performance Metric
Improve departmental processes and efficiencies in Human
Rights Cases

Increase Awareness and Improve understanding of Ethics &
Human Rights Ordinances
• Number of people trained for Ethics in person
• Number of employees participating in Ethics Online Training*
*This number does not include 7000 CCHHS employees who are also mandated to receive annual ethics
trainings, nor does this number reflect a request by the Cook County Sheriff office for its 6000 Sheriff
office employees.

Identify and promote effective recommendations on health,
safety and economic well being of women and girls
• Number of training sessions on county work place violence policy
and domestic violence policy
*This number does not reflect departmental response to CCHHS’s request to train 7000 HHS office
employees.

13

 019-Employee Appeals Board
FY2013 Budget Presentation

Mission

Budget and staffing

The Employee Appeals Board is charged
with hearing all appeals of any career
service employee, not represented by a
union, for disciplinary action relating to
discharge, demotion or suspension for a
period of more than ten (10) days, upon
the request of the employee, to assure
fair and equitable treatment of employees
in a professional manner. The Employee
Appeals Members will continue to entrust
their responsibility and obligations in
settling disputes with fair and equal
judgment.

14

 