 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and
Business and Economic Development

Tuesday, June 17, 2014 12:00 PM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider

and Steele (7)

Absent: Commissioner Reyes (1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

14?1930
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO ASSESSMENT CLASSES - CLASS 6A
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article II Real
Property Taxation, Division 2, Section 74?63 through 74-69 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances are hereby
amended as follows:
Sec. 74-63. Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:

(1) Class I. Unimproved real estate.

(2) Class 2. Real estate:

a. Used as a farm;

b. Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not more than
six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a government?subsidized
housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest assessment category;

0. Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where the
building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or

d. Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as de?ned in this division, provided
that:

I . At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80 percent of
the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single Room Occupancy
Units? as set by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(hereinafter schedule");

2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the current
MR schedule;

3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the building
shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and

4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and health
codes and requirements.

In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2 classi?cation shall
be revoked.

(3) Class 3. All improved real estate used for residential purposes which is not included in any other class.

(4) Class 4. Real estate owned and used by a not-for-pro?t corporation in furtherance of the purposes set
forth in its charter unless used for residential purposes. If such real estate is used for residential
purposes, it shall be classi?ed in the appropriate residential class.

(5) Class 5a. All real estate not included in Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5b, Class 6a Class 6b,
Class C, Class 7a, Class 7b, Class 8, Class 9, Class or Class of this section.

 

(6) Class 51). All real estate used for industrial purposes as de?ned herein and not included in any other
class.

(7) Class 6a. Real estate used primarily for the purpose of a retail center with a grocery store component
deemed ?quali?ed? for the purposes of the Amended Class 6a. includingthe land upon which such property
is situated: or real estate used primarily for the purpose of a retail develupgient enterprise deemed
"'tulali?ed?. consisting at" buildings; pg other structures, including t 1e_land upon which
they are situated.

 

a. A property may be deemed ?quali?ed? for the purpose of the Amended Class 6a ii

Page 2 of 55

i. The retail center with a grocery store component that occupies the premise or
through the Retail?s Occupation Tax: the Service Occupation Tax andr?or the Use Tax;
and.

ii. With regards to the retail center with a grocery store enterprise, the retail center with a
gtjocery store component that occupies the premises submits evidence of hard?p
a determination that the Amended Class 6a designation is necessary for the
retail center with a grocery store component to continue operations at its current location
and maintain its staff, and that without such designation the retail center with grocery
store component would not be economically viable, causing the property to be_ir_i
imminent risk of becoming or contipuing to be vacant and unused: With regards to the
retail development enterprise, the retail development enterprise that will occupy the
premises submits evidence of hardship supporting a determination that the Ament?
Class (1a designation is necessary 111 the retail to be that without such
designation the retail development enterprise would not be economically viable. causing
the property to he in imminent risk ol'continuing to he vacant and unused.

 

b. An applicant must ohtainhfrom the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or Resolutm
expressly stating that it has determined the property is ?quali?ed? for the purpose of the
Amended Class 6a and that it supports and consents to the Amended Class 6a application to the
Assessor. A certi?ed copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be ?led at the time of ?ling
me??endcd Class 6a eligibility application with the Assessor,_bnt must be filed with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to
Amended Class 63. If the Ordinance or Resolution is not ?led at the time of the eligibility
application. the applicant shall instead ?le. at that time, a letter from the municipality or the
County. as the case may be, con?rming that an Ordinance or Resolution supporting the incentive

has been reguested.

c. A copy of the Ordinance or Resolution or letter con?rming that an Ordinance or Resolution
has been requested; whichever is ?led with the application. will be forwarded by the Assessor?s
Of?ce to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board
from the affected districts.

d. if the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality. the approval of the Count}r
Board is required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?quali?ed? for the
purpose of the Amended Class 6a. and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The
with Section I) to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to
whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?quali?ed? for the purpose of
the Amended Class 6a and_p1_'pvidc a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of the
County Resolution validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?quali?ed? for_t_h?
purpose of the Amended Class 6a need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Amended Class 6a
application with the Assessor. but must be ?led with the Assessor no later date an
assessment appeal is that to request the class change to Amended Class 6a.

 

e. The Assessor_shal  provide rules for the ?ling of annual reports by recipients of Amended
Class (1a incentives granted as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at
meAmended Class (in site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to certify whether the
rctail center with grocery store component or the retail development enterprise continues its
pperations at that location. lit addition, recipients of Amepded Class 6a incentives shall b_e
required to report tothe Assessor within 30 days if the tetail center with grocerv_stp_t'e_component

 

 

Page 3 of 55

or the retail development enterprise ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports
will be forwarded by the Assessor-fa Of?ce to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution
to members ofthe County Board From the affected districts. l-?ailure to ?le such reports within the
time established by the Assessor?s rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating
to the nonl?ilina. Additionally. if the retail center with grocery store component or the retail
development enterprise ceases operations at that location. then the Amended Class 6a incentive
granted shall terminate.

Class (in applications for newly constructed of substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such 
construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class (is incentive.

gLThis classi?cation will begin Front date of the notice of approval regarding the retail center
with grocery store component or from the date of such new construction (excluding demolition, it"
any} regarding the retail development enterprise and will continue for a period of l2 years or until
the retail center with grocery store component o_r_the retail development enterprise ceases
operations at that location if that occurs sooner.

h. This ipeentive may be renewed during the_last year a properly is entitled to a ten percent
assessment level pursuant to section 74?640). ifthe Following requirements are met:

i. The property can continue to be deemed ?quali?ed? for the purposes of the Class 6a;
ii. The applicant noti?es the Assessor?s Of?ce of intent to request renewal of the

incentive from the municipality or the County Board, if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

 

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the
municipality or the County Board. as the case may be. has determined that the premise
continues to be deemed ?qualified" for the purpose of the Amended Class 6a. and
supports and consents to renewal of the Amended Class 6a'Land

iv. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the
Assessor?s Of?ce before the expiration of the ten percent assessment level period.

i. The number of renewal periods is not limitedas long as the property continues to apply and the
property continues to be deemed ?quali?ed? for the purpose of the Amended Class 6a.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor?s Of?ce
to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the
affected districts.

k. If no renewal is_ obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next Z?years. pursuant to
Section 74-64( 7). After expiration of the last incentive period- the real estate shalLrevert to the
applicable classi?cation under this division.

I. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsectiop necessary to ensure proper

review of all factors relevant to determine elig?lity for the bene'l'its provided under Amended
Class 6a.

Page 4 0f 55

 Class 61). Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property,
including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are
substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed
land related to the rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal
square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such
proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel.

a.

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the County
Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or Resolution expressly
stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the incentive
provided by Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on that speci?c real estate and that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the Class 6b
application to the Assessor. A certi?ed copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be ?led at the
time of ?ling the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b.
If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead ?le,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, con?rming that a
Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested.

A copy of the Resolution or letter con?rming that a Resolution has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

Class 6b applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such new
construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 6b incentive. With respect to
abandoned property, the Class 6b application must be made to the Assessor prior to the
commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 6b,
unless:

I. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application. If
the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required
to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a
County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal
enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present such municipal
Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether
it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need

Page 5 of 55

not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be
?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class
change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b eligibility application,
the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case
may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of a Class 6b
under the TEERM Program if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other
structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The ?nding of
abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be included in the
Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application under the TEERM
Program. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board
is required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class
6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present such
municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as
to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned? for purposes of
Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or
Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County
Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the
Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to
request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b
application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County
as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has
been requested.

Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not meet the
de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the
case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the property is
deemed "quali?ed" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:

1. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program;

2. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship supporting a
determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the industrial enterprise
to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that without such
designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to
be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and

3. The applicant is not receiving another Cook County property tax incentive for the same
property.

The ?nding that a property is quali?ed, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances,
and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that
without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the
property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused, shall be included in the Resolution
or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application. If the Ordinance or Resolution

Page 6 of 55

is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a ?nding
that the property is deemed ?quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that
effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the
required ?nding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a
?nding that the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County
Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating
such a ?nding that the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at
the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that
time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Applications for the TEERM Program or SER Program under a Class 6b application must be
received by the Assessor's Of?ce on or before November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the number of
persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to certify
whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application
continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of Class 6b incentives granted
pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the Assessor within 30 days if the
industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations
at that location. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary
of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts.
Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the Assessor?s rules shall result in loss of
the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that
occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the
Class 6b incentive granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy, or in the
case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice of
approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program, this classi?cation shall
continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the notice of approval, or until the industrial
enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that
location if that occurs sooner.

Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program, this incentive
may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled to a ten percent assessment level
pursuant to section if the following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of intent to request renewal of the incentive from
the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the municipality
or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial use of the property
is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the
Class 6b; and

Page 7 of 55

3. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Assessor's
Of?ce before the expiration of the ten-percent assessment level period.

g. Class 6b incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program are not
renewable. For all other Class 6b incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long
as the property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 6b.

h. A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts.

i. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant to
Section After expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to the
applicable classi?cation under this division.

j. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper review of
all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the bene?ts provided under Class 6b.

k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 6b
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 6b site. A
copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to ?le
such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive
for the period relating to the non?ling.

{89(2) Class C. Real estate which is to be used for industrial or commercial purposes, including abandoned
property, as de?ned in Section 74-62, including the land upon which such property is situated; or vacant
land; where such real estate because of contamination has undergone environmental testing and
remediation and has received a ?No Further Remediation Letter" from the site remediation program.

a. To be eligible for a Class classi?cation an applicant must have received a ?No Further
Remediation Letter" con?rming achievement of the remediation objectives based on the industrial
or commercial use.

b. The owner of the property is rendered ineligible for the Class classi?cation by having previously
owned or operated the site, directly or indirectly, or having been a partner or being associated
through a family or business relationship with anyone who has owned or operated the site, which
ownership or operation caused the contamination which was remediated pursuant to a site
remediation. A present owner who can successfully demonstrate that the owner was not responsible
for the contamination may be eligible for Class classi?cation.

c. An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the County
Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an ordinance or resolution expressly
stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the incentive
provided by Class is necessary for development to occur on that speci?c real estate and that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the Class application
to the Assessor. A certi?ed copy of the ordinance or resolution must be ?led at the time of
application for the Class classi?cation. A copy of that ordinance or resolution, whichever is
submitted, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board for distribution
to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

Page 8 of 55

To qualify for the Class classi?cation, an application for Class classi?cation must be made
within one year of the receipt of the ?No Further Remediation Letter." Where an application for
Class classi?cation encompasses less than all of the contiguous property owned by the applicant
upon which remediation has been completed, the one year limitation will be waived for any
subsequent separate application for Class classi?cation for the remainder or for additional
portions of the property, provided that such subsequent application is made within seven years.

Additionally, to qualify for the Class classi?cation, the estimated remediation costs, including
site investigation, testing, oversight, remediation and removal costs, monitoring, and engineering
and legal fees associated with the remediation process, must total at least $100,000.00, or
alternatively, must total at least 25 percent of the market value of the real estate as determined by
the Assessor's property record card in the year prior to the remediation, whichever is less.

The initial Class classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years for both industrial and
commercial property. For industrial property, this incentive may be renewed during the last year a
property is entitled to a 16 percent assessment level, if the following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of the
incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a resolution expressly stating that the municipality or
County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial use of the property is
necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the
Class and

3. A copy of that resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Of?ce of the
Assessor before the expiration of the 16 percent assessment level period.

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply
and qualify for Class C. Any property which applies for Class treatment on or before
the adoption date of the ordinance from which this division is derived will be eligible for
this renewal term at the end of their original incentive period subject to the above
requirements. The notice of intent to request renewal which is ?led with the Assessor's
Of?ce will be forwarded by the Assessor?s Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board for
distribution to members of the County Board from the effected districts.

If, on November 23, 1999, a property is receiving Class treatment, but the assessment level is
higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and receive a 16
percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the ?ling and approval of the
resolution and renewal application. However, if, as of that effective date, the taxpayer's assessment
is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the incentive for subsequent
years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal of the incentive will be
granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years,
pursuant to Section 74-64. After such ten-year period expiration of the last incentive period, the
real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

Page 9 of 55

For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the commercial
Class incentive will expire. The incentive classi?cation will not be subject to renewal and the
real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

The Assessor shall review the application and supporting documentation to determine eligibility for
the Class classi?cation. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with the foregoing necessary to
ensure proper review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the
bene?ts provided under the Class classi?cation.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class site.
Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the
Assessor?s rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

Class 7a. Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, comprising a quali?ed commercial
development project, as determined pursuant to Section located in an area in need of
commercial development, where total development costs, exclusive of land, do not exceed
$2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon
which they are situated; or abandoned property, as de?ned in this division, including the land upon
which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated
to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the
rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square
footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7a. The
?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the resolution or ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 7a application. Not
withstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not be determined to justify ?nding that a
property is deemed "abandoned" where:

A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

B. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

Such resolution or ordinance must be ?led with the eligibility application. If the ordinance or
resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a
?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7a and a resolution to that
effect shall be included with the Class 7a eligibility application ?led with the Assessor.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy. After
such 12-year period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 7a
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 7a site.
Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

Page 10 of 55

 Class Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, as de?ned in this division,
comprising a quali?ed commercial development project, as determined pursuant to Section 
located in an "area in need of commercial development", where total development costs, exclusive of
land, exceed $2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including
the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property, as de?ned herein, including the land upon
which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated
to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the
rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square
footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a. In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 7b.
The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the resolution or ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 7b application. Not
withstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not be determined to justify ?nding that a
property is deemed "abandoned" where:

A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

B. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

Such resolution or ordinance must be ?led with the eligibility application. If the ordinance or
resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a
?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 7b and a resolution to that
effect shall be included with the Class 7b eligibility application ?led with the Assessor.

b. This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy.

c. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 7b
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 7b site.
Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

HQ) Class 8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all newly
constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, as de?ned in this division, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all
buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has
added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation.

a. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the
square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on
the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook County Tax Reactivation
Project or must be located in one of the following designated geographical areas:

1. An area which has been certi?ed as in need of substantial revitalization in accordance with the
provisions of Section 

Page 11 of 55

2. An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on June 22, 1994, or
the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the municipality in which such real estate is
located, or, if in an unincorporated area, the County must by lawful Resolution determine that
such real estate is consistent with an overall plan for the rehabilitation of the area; or

3. Any one of the following ?ve townships: Bloom; Bremen; Calumet; Rich; and Thornton.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 8, unless:

I. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If the
Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to
validate such, a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a
Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling
Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present such municipal
Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether
it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned? for purposes of Class 8 and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not
be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8.
If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at
that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a
Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 8 under the
TEERM Program, if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures
have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The ?nding of abandonment, along
with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or
Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is
that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such, a ?nding that
the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of
special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as
well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the
property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the
Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an
assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not ?led at the

Page 12 of 55

time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Applications for the TEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Of?ce on or before
November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.

A copy of the Resolution or letter con?rming that a Resolution has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed, or
in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy, or in the case of
incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice of approval.

Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed during the
last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent assessment level pursuant to if the
following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of the
incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the municipality
or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial or commercial use of
the property is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to
renewal of the Class 8; and

3. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Assessor's
Of?ce before the expiration of the 10 percent assessment level period.

Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program are not renewable. For all
other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property
continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.

If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant to
Section After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate shall revert to the
applicable classi?cation under this division.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper review of
all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the bene?ts provided under Class 8.

The certi?cation of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire ?ve years from the
date such certi?cation is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant of the date of expiration
of certi?cation one year before the date of the expiration of the certi?cation. Such certi?cation,
pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one additional ?ve-year period subject to
reapplication by the appropriate local governing body within the period from one year to six
months prior to the expiration of the initial ?ve?year period.

Page 13 of 55

k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 8
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 8 site. A
copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to ?le
such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive
for the period relating to the non?ling.

Class 9. All real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classi?cation under this division, provided that
such real estate, consisting of land and existing buildings and structures is multifamily residential real
estate; either has undergone major rehabilitation, or is new construction, or both; has at least 35 percent
of the dwelling units leased at rents affordable to low-or moderate-income persons or households; and is
in substantial compliance with all applicable local building, safety and health requirements and codes.

a. To qualify for the Class 9 classi?cation, the applicant must:

1. File an eligibility application with the Assessor prior to commencement of rehabilitation
and/or of new construction;

2. Either undertake and complete a major rehabilitation of the subject property, or undertake and
complete construction of a new building;

3. Maintain the subject property, including any new construction, in substantial compliance with
all local building, safety and health codes and requirements for the duration of the Class 9
classi?cation period;

4. Lease, for the duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period, at least 35 percent of the dwelling
units of the subject property, including any new construction, to tenants at rents which will not
exceed rents affordable to low- and moderate-income persons or households;

5. Agree to make a current listing of Class 9 tenants and their income available to the Assessor
upon request;

6. Further agrees to annually provide the tenants with a list of the permissible Class 9 rents;

7. Agree to notify tenants of the upcoming Class 9 expiration at least one year prior to the
termination of the incentive treatment; and

8. File annually with the Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, for the
duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period, a sworn statement verifying continuous
compliance with the Class 9 provisions of this division.

b. No applicant shall discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, marital status, religion, national
origin or ancestry, or on any other basis prohibited under Federal, State or local law.

c. Upon completion of the major rehabilitation, the applicant must supplement the application by
submitting evidence showing that major rehabilitation did, in fact, occur, the date that the major
rehabilitation was completed and that the real estate complies with all applicable local building,
safety and health requirements and codes. Upon completion of the new construction, the applicant
must supplement the application by submitting an occupancy permit showing the date that the new
construction was completed and ready for occupancy, and evidence that the real estate complies
with all applicable local building, safety and health requirements and codes.

Page 14 of 55

(1. Beginning January 1, 2000, the Class 9 classi?cation shall have an initial duration of ten years
from the date that the major rehabilitation was completed. That period may be extended for
additional ten?year periods if:

1.

An application is ?led with the Assessor at least 12 months before the expiration of the
incentive period;

The applicant presents evidence that the real estate currently complies with all applicable local
building, safety and health requirements and codes; and

The Assessor determines that all application quali?cations, except the major rehabilitation or
new construction requirement, were maintained during the incentive period.

e. When the Class 9 classi?cation is due to expire or is terminated by action of the owner or the
Assessor, the property owner shall, in a manner and form determined by the Assessor, notify all
Class 9 tenants of the date of the termination of Class 9 classi?cation. Once the Class 9
classi?cation is terminated, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this
division.

61?39%) Class S. Real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classi?cation under this division, consisting of land
and existing buildings and structures, which is has been subject to a Section 8 contract renewal. The
portion of the land and building eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the number of
Section 8 units bears to the total number of units. The proportion shall be applied only to property used
for residential purposes, and not to portions of the property, if any, used for commercial purposes.

a. Property quali?es for the Class classi?cation if its Section 8 contract has been renewed pursuant
to one of the following alternatives:

1.

HUD has approved renewal of the Section 8 contract under the mark up to market option, after
?nding that:

i. The property has received a physical inspection score of at least 60, in an inspection by
HUD's Real Estate Assessment Center, con?rming that the property is decent, safe,
sanitary and in good repair with no uncorrected exigent health and safety (EHS)
violations;

ii. The property does not have a low? and moderate-income use restriction that cannot be
eliminated by unilateral action by the owner. If, however, the current rent is lower than
the use restriction, HUD may use the mark up to market option to increase the rents to the
use restriction level, which would be a renewal qualifying for the classi?cation; and

A rent comparability study conducted by HUD has demonstrated that comparable market
rents are above 100 percent of the HUD Fair Market Rent.

HUD has approved a contract renewal for ?ve years of the Section 8 contract under the mark
up to market under HUD's discretionary authority, after ?nding that the property meets at least
one of the required criteria:

i. A vulnerable population is affected,

ii. There is a low vacancy rate in the area, which would make tenant based assistance
dif?cult to use, or a lack of comparable housing, or

Page 15 0f 55

 The project is a high priority for the local community, as demonstrated by a contribution
of state or local funds to the property.

3. HUD has approved renewal of a Section 8 contract for a not for pro?t corporation under any
available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal
Policy Guidelines.

Additional requirements for quali?cation for the classi?cation are:

1. At least 20 percent of the living units must be Section 8 units for qualifying low and
moderate-income persons.

2. The owner must agree to retain at least the existing number of Section 8 units for at least ?ve
years after the expiration of the expiring or expired Section 8 contract.

3. For the duration of the Class classi?cation period, applicant must ?le annually with the
Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, a sworn statement verifying
continuous compliance with the Class provisions of this division.

4. Applicant must agree to notify the Assessor's Of?ce if the Section 8 contract is terminated
prior to its expiration date. Applicant shall provide to the Assessor's of?ce a copy of any
notice of default or notice of abatement received from HUD.

When the applicant applies to HUD for a contract renewal, no less than 120 days prior to the
expiration of the contract, the applicant shall notify the Assessor's Of?ce of the application, on a
form provided by that of?ce. Upon receiving approval of the contract renewal from HUD, the
applicant shall ?le an application for the incentive with the Assessor's Of?ce, on a form provided
by that of?ce. The application shall be supported by a copy of HUD's letter approving the contract
renewal and a copy of the executed renewal contract.

Any property which, as of November 23, 1999, has an existing Section 8 contract with a mark up to
market option may apply for Class classi?cation for the any portion of the 2001 assessment year
encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract term, including any
renewals approved with the mark up to market option. The classi?cation shall continue until the
expiration or termination of the Section 8 contract.

Any property which, as of (DATE AMENDMENT APPROVED), has an existing Section 8
contract renewal may apply for Class classi?cation for any portion of the 2006 assessment year
encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract term, including any
renewals approved with the mark up to market option, mark up to market option under HUD's
discretionary authority or a Section 8 contract that has been renewed by a not-for?pro?t corporation
under any available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8
Renewal Policy Guidelines. The classi?cation shall continue until the expiration or termination of
the Section 8 contract.

The incentive may be renewed if the Section 8 contract is again renewed under any of the
following three options: 1) the mark up to market option; 2) the mark up to market option under
HUD's discretionary authority; or 3) by a not-for?pro?t corporation under any available option
under HUD's renewal procedures as described in Section 8 Renewal Policy Guidelines.
Upon ?ling an application with HUD, no less than 120 days prior to termination of the contract, for
renewal of the Section 8 contract, the taxpayer shall provide notice to the Assessor's Of?ce of its
application for renewal. The taxpayer shall provide a copy to the Assessor's Of?ce of HUD's
approval of the contract renewal, or noti?cation of other action.

Page 16 of 55

f. The Assessor's Of?ce shall adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the bene?ts provided
under Class S.

949$) Class L. Real estate which is to be used for commercial or industrial purposes and which is
designated as Class 3, Class 4, Class 5a or Class Sb pursuant to this division; is a landmark or
contributing building; and has undergone substantial rehabilitation. The substantial rehabilitation must
constitute an investment by the owner of at least 50 percent of the building?s full market value as
determined by the Assessor in the assessment year prior to the commencement of the substantial
rehabilitation.

a. Generally, the incentive shall apply only to the building and will not apply to the land underneath
the building. However, if the entire building has been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months prior to the ?ling of the eligibility application with the Assessor, the land upon which the
building is situated shall also be eligible for the incentive.

b. Prior to ?ling a Class eligibility application with the Assessor, an applicant must obtain an
ordinance or resolution from the unit of local government in which the real estate is located, which
expressly states that the local government:

1. Has determined that the incentive provided by Class is necessary for the substantial
rehabilitation of the property;

2. Supports and consents to the granting of the incentive; and

3. Has reviewed and accepted its preservation commission's written recommendation of the
project for the Class incentive. This recommendation will specify the project's budget and
proposed scope of work and will specify that the project will meets or exceeds the Standards
of the United States Department of the Interior for Rehabilitation, Preservation, Restoration,
and Reconstruction of historic properties.

0. A certi?ed copy of the ordinance or resolution need not be ?led with the Assessor at the time the
Class eligibility application is ?led but the ordinance or resolution must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class L.

d. If the ordinance or resolution is not ?led at the time of the eligibility application is ?led, the
applicant shall instead, include the following items with the eligibility application:

1. A letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, con?rming that a resolution
or ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested; and

2. A copy of the preservation commission's recommendation of the project.

e. A copy of the resolution or letter con?rming that a resolution has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board
for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

f. Additionally, to qualify a landmark building or contributing building for Class classi?cation, an
eligibility application must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of
substantial rehabilitation. After the substantial rehabilitation has been completed, the preservation
commission shall review the project to determine that it is eligible under Subsection (14) of this
section. The applicant must supplement the eligibility application with a copy of the determination
of the preservation commission prior to classi?cation of the real estate as Class L.

Page 17 of 55

g. The initial Class classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such
substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed.

h. For property which was initially classi?ed as Class 3, 4 or 5b, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a 16 percent assessment level, if the following
requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of the
incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a resolution expressly stating that the municipality or
County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial use of the property is
necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the
Class and

3. A copy of that resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Of?ce of the
Assessor before the expiration of the incentive period.

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply and qualify
for Class L. The notice of intent to request renewal which is ?led with the Assessor's Of?ce will be
forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to
members of the County Board from the affected districts.

i. If, as of November 23,1999, a property is receiving Class treatment, but the assessment level is
higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and receive a 16
percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the ?ling and approval of the
resolution and renewal application. However, if as of the effective date, the taxpayer's assessment
is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the incentive for subsequent
years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal of the incentive will be
granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years,
pursuant to Section 74-64. After expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to
the applicable classi?cation under this division.

j. For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the commercial
Class incentive will expire. The incentive classi?cation will not be subject to renewal and the
real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

k. The Assessor shall adopt rules consistent with the foregoing necessary to ensure proper review of
all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the bene?ts provided under
Class L.

I. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 
recipients as to the continued landmark status of the property and the number of persons employed

at the Class site. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules
may result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

Sec. 74-64. Market value percentages.

The Assessor shall assess, and the Board of Review shall review, assessments on real estate in the various
classes at the following percentages of market value:

Page 18 of 55

Sec.

(60

(1) Class 1: 10 percent.
(2) Class 2: 10 percent.

(3) Class 3: 16 percent in tax year 2009, 13 percent in tax year 2010, 10 percent in tax year 2011, and
subsequent years.

(4) Class 4: 25 percent.
(5) Class 5a: 25 percent.
(6) Class 5b: 25 percent.

(7) Class 6:1: I0 percent for ?rst ten vear_s__and for any subsequent ten vear renewal periods: iftlie incentive
is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

(79(8) Class 6b: 10 percent for ?rst ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the
incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

(69(2) Class C: Industrial properties: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in
year 12; commercial properties: 10 percent for first ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in
year 12.

Class 7a: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.
Class 7b: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

61?19% Class 8: 10 percent for ?rst ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the
incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

Class 9: 10 percent for an initial ten-year period, renewable upon application for additional ten-year
periods.

14) Class S: 10 percent for the term of the Section 8 contract renewal under the mark up to market
option, as de?ned herein, and for any additional terms of renewal of the Section 8 contract under the
mark up to market option.

15) Class L, renewable properties: 10 percent for ?rst ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal
periods; if the incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12; commercial
properties: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

74-65. Quali?cations for commercial development project status.

To qualify as a commercial development project under Class 7a or 7b, it is necessary that the project be
located in an area in need of commercial development in that:

(1) The area is, or has been within the last ten years, designated by Federal, State or local agency as a
conservation, blighted or renewal area or an area encompassing a rehabilitation or redevelopment plan
or project adopted under the Illinois Urban Renewal Consolidation Act of 1961, as amended, or the
Commercial Renewal Re-development Areas Act of 1967, as amended, or that the area is located in a
Federal Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, as proposed and approved by the County Board
on June 22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, or the Commercial District
Development Commission Ordinance of the City of Chicago or designation of like effect adopted under
any similar statute or ordinance;

Page 19 of 55



(C)









(2) Real estate taxes within the area, during the last six years, have declined, remained stagnant or potential
real estate taxes are not being fully realized due to the depressed condition of the area;

(3) There is a reasonable expectation that the development, re-development or rehabilitation of the
commercial development project is viable and likely to go forward on a reasonably timely basis if
granted Class 7a or 7b designation and will therefore result in the economic enhancement of the area;

(4) Certi?cation of the commercial development project for Class 7a or 7b designation will materially assist
development, redevelopment or rehabilitation of the area and the commercial development project
would not go forward without the full incentive offered under Class 7a or 7b; and

(5) Certi?cation of the commercial development project for Class 7a or 7b designation is reasonably
expected to ultimately result in an increase in real property tax revenue and employment opportunities
within the area.

Prior to ?ling a Class 7a or 7b eligibility application with the Assessor, an applicant must obtain from the
municipality in which the real estate is located, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, an ordinance or resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as
the case may be, has determined that the conditions of Subsections of this section are present
and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the Class 7a or 7b
application to the Assessor. A certi?ed copy of such ordinance or resolution shall be included with the Class
7a or 7b application at the time of ?ling the application with the Assessor. A copy of the ordinance or
resolution, whichever is submitted, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board
for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts. The application shall include
any other information deemed necessary by the Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the
commercial development project quali?es for the Class 7a or 7b classi?cation and shall bear the expense of
doing so.

Inasmuch as the County desires to encourage economic development in the neighborhoods of the County,
support the increased use of the incentive by smaller projects and to limit the expense of such applications,
the Assessor shall liberally construe the requirements of Subsections of this section for Class
7a applications.

The Assessor shall adopt rules, including a provision to ensure a proper review of the application and
supporting data.

Certi?cation of a commercial development project shall not be denied by reason of insuf?cient size if it
otherwise quali?es hereunder. In determining what constitutes the ?full incentive offered" as provided in
Subsection of this section, consideration may be given to any lawful intergovernmental participation
agreements under which the project developer has agreed, as a precondition to Class 7a or 7b certi?cation, to
share a portion of future pro?ts with the appropriate taxing districts.

For Class 7a applications, where the Assessor ?nds that the conditions of Subsections of this
section exist, the Assessor shall, within 60 days after receipt of the application and necessary supporting data,
certify the commercial development project eligible for Class 7a treatment under this division.

In order to determine Class 7b applications, upon receipt of the application and all the necessary supporting
data, the Assessor shall forward it to the Economic Development Advisory Committee of the County. The
Committee shall within 30 days return the application to the Assessor with a ?nding stating Whether the
conditions of Subsections of this section are present. The Assessor shall review the
application, supporting data, ?ndings of the Committee and other appropriate facts. Where the Assessor ?nds
the conditions of Subsections of this section exist, the Assessor shall, within 30 days of the

Page 20 of 55









(1)

Sec.

receipt of the Committee's ?ndings, certify the commercial development project eligible for Class 7b
treatment under this division.

Class 7a and 7b certi?cations shall lapse within one year from the date of issuance unless new construction
or substantial rehabilitation, or in the case of abandoned property, reoccupation of the commercial
development project has commenced prior to its expiration.

To be certi?ed as an area in need of substantial revitalization for purposes of Class 8 classi?cation it is
necessary that:

The municipality in which the area is located or, if an unincorporated area, the County determine by
lawful resolution that the area is in a state of economic depression and that it is not economically
feasible for private enterprise to accomplish the necessary modernization, rehabilitation, and
development of the area without public assistance and encouragement, or a determination of similar
import;

(2) The municipality or, if in an unincorporated area, the County apply to the Assessor for certi?cation of
the area as one in need of substantial revitalization;

(3) Upon receiving an application to certify an area as in need of substantial revitalization, the Assessor
shall review the application, supporting data and other appropriate factors relevant to a determination of
the severity of the economic conditions of the area. In determining whether the "in need of substantial
revitalization" requirement is met, the Assessor shall give strong consideration and substantial weight to
the fact that an area is located in a Federal empowerment zone or enterprise community, as proposed
and approved by the County Board on June 22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994.

Upon ?nding that existing factors convincingly demonstrate that the area is in need of substantial
revitalization, as de?ned in this division, the Assessor shall grant such certi?cation to the area. In making
this determination statistical data relevant to the surrounding area as well as the speci?c area for which
certi?cation is sought may be considered. The surrounding area for the City of Chicago shall be the
community area as de?ned in this division; for all other areas in the County it shall be, where applicable, the
municipality in which the area is located.

If a municipality within an Enterprise Community, as proposed and approved by the County Board on June
22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, determines by municipal resolution that the area is
in a state of economic depression and that it is not economically feasible for private enterprise to accomplish
the necessary modernization, rehabilitation, and development of the area without public assistance and
encouragement, or a determination of similar import and submits a request for Class 8 certi?cation, such
certi?cation shall be automatic pursuant to this division. However, each property eligible for a Class 8
incentive within the certi?ed area must ?le an application in a timely manner.

Any Class 6a incentive that is still active can be renewed. The Class 6a incentive is de?ned in this division.
The renewal procedures described in Section 74-63 apply to Class 6a as well.

74-66. Property in two or more classes.

Where a single parcel of real estate is partially included in two or more of the above?described classes, each

portion shall be assessed at the assessment level herein prescribed for that class.

Sec.

74-67. Assessor's status and progress report.

A written report on the status and progress of the implementation of this division, or any amendments

thereto, and all rules promulgated by the Assessor hereunder, shall be submitted by the County Assessor to the
President and County Board annually on or before December 1.

Page 21 of 55

Sec.

(3)



(C)

Sec.

74-68. Classi?cation system to apply with tax assessment year.

The incentive provisions of this division provided to qualifying parcels of real estate for Class 6a Class 6b,
Class C, Class 7a, Class 7b and Class 8 shall expire on December 31, 2015, unless otherwise reviewed by
action of the County. Real estate granted a Class 6, Class 6a, Class 6b, Class 7 or Class 8 classi?cation on or
before December 31, 1994, shall retain such classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division
prior to January 1, 1995. Real estate for which an application for Class 6a, Class 6b, Class 7 or Class 8
classi?cation is ?led with the Assessor on or before December 31, 1994, and which thereafter is determined
by the Assessor to be eligible for the classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division after
January 1, 1995, shall be entitled to receive such classi?cation under such terms and conditions.

 

 

Real estate granted a Class 6a Class 6b, Class 6c, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation on or before
December 31, 1999, shall retain such classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division prior to
January 1, 2000. Real estate for which an application for Class 6b, Class 60, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8
classi?cation is ?led with the Assessor on or before December 31, 1999, and which thereafter is determined
by the Assessor to be eligible for classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division existing prior
to January 1, 2000, shall be entitled to receive such classi?cation under such terms and conditions.

Real Estate granted a Class 6a Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation on or before December
31, 2004, shall retain such classi?cation under the terms and conditions of the Ordinance prior to January 1,
2005. Real estate for which an application for Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation is ?led
with the Assessor on or before December 31, 2004, and which thereafter is determined by the Assessor to be
eligible for classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this Ordinance existing prior to January 1, 2005,
shall be entitled to receive such classi?cation under such terms and conditions.

 

74-69. Applicable assessment level.

The assessment level applicable to real estate classi?ed under incentive Classes 6_aand 

shall in no event exceed the assessment level which otherwise would have been applicable to such real estate
under the remaining assessment classes provided in this division.

Effective date: This ordinance amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: 3/ 12/ 14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and
Business and Economic Development.

Legislative History: 4/8/14 Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and Business and Economic Development
committee meeting recommended for deferral to the next meeting.

Legislative History: 5/21/14 Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and Business and Economic Development
committee meeting recommended for deferral to the next meeting.

Legislative History 5/21/ 14 Board of Commissioners deferred

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that this Ordinance

Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye:

Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Stee1e(7)

Absent: Reyes( 1)

Page 22 of 55

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO 14?1930

Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS GARCIA.
DUODY {Zit'lliMAN and Comlnissip?pt?s

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDMENT TO ASSESSMENT CLASSES - CLASS 7C

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article II Real Property
Taxation, Division 2, Section 74-63 through 74-73 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances are hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-63. Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:

(1) Class 1. Unimproved real estate.

(2) Class 2. Real estate:

a.

b.

Used as a farm;

Used for residential purposes when improved with a house, an apartment building of not more than
six living units, or residential condominium, a residential cooperative or a government-subsidized
housing project, if required by statute to be assessed in the lowest assessment category;

Improved with a building put to commercial and residential use, of six or less units where the
building measures less than 20,000 square feet of above grade space; or

Real estate improved with a single room occupancy building, as de?ned in this division, provided
that:

I. At least one-third of the single room occupancy units are leased at no more than 80 percent of
the current "Fair Market Rent Schedule for Existing Housing for Single Room Occupancy
Units" as set by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(hereinafter schedule?);

2. No single room occupancy units are leased at rents in excess of 100 percent of the current
FMR schedule;

3. The overall maximum average rent per unit for all single room occupancy units in the building
shall not exceed 90 percent of the current FMR schedule; and

4. The subject property is in substantial compliance with all local building, safety and health
codes and requirements.

In the event that the owner fails to comply with these requirements, the Class 2 classi?cation shall
be revoked.

(3) Class 3. All improved real estate used for residential purposes which is not included in any other class.

(4) Class 4. Real estate owned and used by a not-for-pro?t corporation in furtherance of the purposes set
forth in its charter unless used for residential purposes. If such real estate is used for residential
purposes, it shall be classi?ed in the appropriate residential class.

Page 23 of 55

(5) Class 5a. All real estate not included in Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5b, Class 6b, Class C,
Class 7a, Class 7b, Class 70 Class 8, Class 9, Class or Class of this section.

(6)

(7)

 

Class All real estate used for industrial purposes as de?ned herein and not included in any other
class.

Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned property,
including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are
substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed
land related to the rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal
square footage to the improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such
proportion as the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel.

a.

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the County
Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or Resolution expressly
stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the incentive
provided by Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on that speci?c real estate and that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the Class 6b
application to the Assessor. A certi?ed copy of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be ?led at the
time of ?ling the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b.
If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead ?le,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, con?rming that a
Resolution or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested.

A copy of the Resolution or letter con?rming that a Resolution has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

Class 6b applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such new
construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 6b incentive. With respect to
abandoned property, the Class 6b application must be made to the Assessor prior to the
commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purpose of Class 6b,
unless:

I. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application. If
the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required
to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a
County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal
enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present such municipal

Page 24 of 55

Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether
it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need
not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 6b eligibility application with the Assessor, but must be
?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class
change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b eligibility application,
the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case
may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been
requested.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for purpose of a Class 6b
under the TEERM Program if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other
structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The ?nding of
abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be included in the
Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application under the TEERM
Program. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board
is required to validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class
6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present such
municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as
to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of
Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or
Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County
Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned" for
purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the
Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to
request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b
application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County
as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has
been requested.

Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not meet the
de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the
case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the property is
deemed "quali?ed" for purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:

1. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program;

2. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship supporting a
determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the industrial enterprise
to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that Without such
designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to
be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and

3. The applicant is not receiving another Cook County property tax incentive for the same
property.

Page 25 of 55

The ?nding that a property is quali?ed, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances,
and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that
without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the
property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused, shall be included in the Resolution
or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application. If the Ordinance or Resolution
is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a ?nding
that the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that
effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the
required ?nding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a
?nding that the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County
Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating
such a ?nding that the property is deemed "quali?ed" for purposes of Class 6b need not be ?led at
the time of ?ling the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no
later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 6b. If the
Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that
time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution
or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Applications for the TEERM Program or SER Program under a Class 6b application must be
received by the Assessor?s Of?ce on or before November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the number of
persons employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to certify
whether the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application
continues its operations at that location. In addition, recipients of Class 6b incentives granted
pursuant to the SER Program shall be required to report to the Assessor within 30 days if the
industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations
at that location. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary
of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts.
Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the Assessor?s rules shall result in loss of
the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling. Additionally, if the industrial enterprise that
occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that location, then the
Class 6b incentive granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy, or in the
case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice of
approval. In the case of incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program, this classi?cation shall
continue for a period of 12 years from the date of the notice of approval, or until the industrial
enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that
location if that occurs sooner.

Unless a Class 6b granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or the SER Program, this incentive
may be renewed during the last year a property is entitled to a ten percent assessment level

pursuant to section if the following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of intent to request renewal of the incentive from
the municipality or the County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area;

Page 26 of 55

(8)

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the municipality
or the County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial use of the property
is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the
Class 6b; and

3. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Assessor's
Of?ce before the expiration of the ten?percent assessment level period.

g. Class 6b incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program or SER Program are not
renewable. For all other Class 6b incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long
as the property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 6b.

h. A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected
districts.

i. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant to
Section After expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to the
applicable classi?cation under this division.

j. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper review of
all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the bene?ts provided under Class 6b.

k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 6b
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 6b site. A
copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to ?le
such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive
for the period relating to the non?ling.

Class C. Real estate which is to be used for industrial or commercial purposes, including abandoned
property, as de?ned in Section 74-62, including the land upon which such property is situated; or vacant
land; where such real estate because of contamination has undergone environmental testing and
remediation and has received a "No Further Remediation Letter" from the site remediation program.

a. To be eligible for a Class classi?cation an applicant must have received a "No Further
Remediation Letter" con?rming achievement of the remediation objectives based on the industrial
or commercial use.

b. The owner of the property is rendered ineligible for the Class classi?cation by having previously
owned or operated the site, directly or indirectly, or having been a partner or being associated
through a family or business relationship with anyone who has owned or operated the site, which
ownership or operation caused the contamination which was remediated pursuant to a site
remediation. A present owner who can successfully demonstrate that the owner was not responsible
for the contamination may be eligible for Class classi?cation.

c. An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the County
Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an ordinance or resolution expressly
stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the incentive
provided by Class is necessary for development to occur on that speci?c real estate and that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the Class application
to the Assessor. A certi?ed copy of the ordinance or resolution must be ?led at the time of
application for the Class classi?cation. A copy of that ordinance or resolution, whichever is

Page 27 of 55

submitted, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board for distribution
to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

To qualify for the Class classi?cation, an application for Class classi?cation must be made
within one year of the receipt of the "No Further Remediation Letter." Where an application for
Class classi?cation encompasses less than all of the contiguous property owned by the applicant
upon which remediation has been completed, the one year limitation will be waived for any
subsequent separate application for Class classi?cation for the remainder or for additional
portions of the property, provided that such subsequent application is made within seven years.

Additionally, to qualify for the Class classi?cation, the estimated remediation costs, including
site investigation, testing, oversight, remediation and removal costs, monitoring, and engineering
and legal fees associated with the remediation process, must total at least $100,000.00, or
alternatively, must total at least 25 percent of the market value of the real estate as determined by
the Assessor's property record card in the year prior to the remediation, whichever is less.

The initial Class classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years for both industrial and
commercial property. For industrial property, this incentive may be renewed during the last year a
property is entitled to a 16 percent assessment level, if the following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of the
incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a resolution expressly stating that the municipality or
County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial use of the property is
necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the
Class and

3. A copy of that resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Of?ce of the
Assessor before the expiration of the 16 percent assessment level period.

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply
and qualify for Class C. Any property which applies for Class treatment on or before
the adoption date of the ordinance from which this division is derived will be eligible for
this renewal term at the end of their original incentive period subject to the above
requirements. The notice of intent to request renewal which is ?led with the Assessor's
Of?ce will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board for
distribution to members of the County Board from the effected districts.

If, on November 23, 1999, a property is receiving Class treatment, but the assessment level is
higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and receive a 16
percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the ?ling and approval of the
resolution and renewal application. However, if, as of that effective date, the taxpayer's assessment
is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the incentive for subsequent
years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal of the incentive will be
granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years,
pursuant to Section 74-64. After such ten-year period expiration of the last incentive period, the
real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

Page 28 of 55

For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the commercial
Class incentive will expire. The incentive classi?cation will not be subject to renewal and the
real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

The Assessor shall review the application and supporting documentation to determine eligibility for
the Class classi?cation. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with the foregoing necessary to
ensure proper review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the
bene?ts provided under the Class classi?cation.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class site.
Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

(9) Class 7a. Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, comprising a quali?ed commercial
development project, as determined pursuant to Section located in an area in need of
commercial development, where total development costs, exclusive of land, do not exceed
$2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon
which they are situated; or abandoned property, as de?ned in this division, including the land upon
which such property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated
to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the
rehabilitation. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square
footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7a. The
?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the resolution or ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 7a application. Not
withstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not be determined to justify ?nding that a
property is deemed "abandoned" where:

A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

B. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

Such resolution or ordinance must be ?led with the eligibility application. If the ordinance or
resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a
?nding that the property is deemed ?abandoned? for purposes of Class 7a and a resolution to that
effect shall be included with the Class 7a eligibility application ?led with the Assessor.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy. After
such 12-year period, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 7a
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 7a site.
Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

Page 29 of 55

(10) Class 713. Real estate used primarily for commercial purposes, as de?ned in this division, comprising a

quali?ed commercial development project, as determined pursuant to Section located in an
"area in need of commercial development?, where total development costs, exclusive of land, exceed
$2,000,000.00, consisting of all newly constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon
which they are situated; or abandoned property, as de?ned herein, including the land upon which such
property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the
extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation.
Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements.
The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by
the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

a. In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7b.
The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the resolution or ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 7b application. Not
withstanding the foregoing, special circumstances may not be determined to justify ?nding that a
property is deemed "abandoned" where:

A. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

B. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

Such resolution or ordinance must be ?led with the eligibility application. If the ordinance or
resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such a
?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 7b and a resolution to that
effect shall be included with the Class 7b eligibility application ?led with the Assessor.

b. This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially
assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy.

c. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 7b
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 7b site.
Such reports shall be veri?ed. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

1 ?oss Fe m? t'rmmrerc'r'oi Urban (?(77165 R_e_al estate used primarilv for commercial

ii.

purposes, consisting of all nee-1y constructed buildings or other struetures. including the land upon
which they are situated; or abandoned propertv. including the land upon whieh such property i_s
situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such
rehabilitation has added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation. Land
quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements, The
amount of land eligible For the incentive shalLbe in such proportion asthe square footageadded by the
rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.

An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the County l_3__t_3_a_r_tl

if the real estate is located in an unincm'porated area. an Ordinance or Resolution expressly stating that:

Page 30 of 55

U)

(3)

t4)

 

(i)The propeltv. site. or area is deemed aredevelomnent priotjty by the municipality. and

(ii)'l'he municipalitv or Countv Board. as the case may be. has determined that the incentive provided bv

Class I?c is necessarv for deveiopment to occur on that speci?c real estate and that the municipalitv
or Countv Board. as the case may he. supports and consents to the Class 70 application to the

Assessor.

In order to determine Class 70 applications. an application for Class 7c shall bensubmitted to the
Assessor and the Bureau of Economic Development. Upon receipt of the application and all the
necessary supportina data. the Economic Development Advisorv Committee of the Countv. within 30
davs return the application to the Assessor with a ?nding stating whether the conditions ofSubscetions
(a?nf of this section are present. The Assessor shall review the application. supporting data.
?ndings of the Committee and other appropriate facts. Where the Assessor ?nds the conditions of
Subsections (alt IJ?(alt4) of this section exist. the Assessor shall. within 30 days of the receipt of the
Committee's ?ndings. certifv [he development proiect eligible for Class 7c treatment under
this division.

Where the Economic Development Advisorv Committee does not return a ?nding statina whether the
conditions of Subsections tattl) (aid) of this section are present within 30 davs. and upon further
application of the requesting part'v. the Assessor mav review the application. supporting data. and other
appropriate facts and eertifv the commercial development project eligible for Class 7c treatment and
grant disincentive.

That the Property?s [the real estate that is subiect of the Incentive application) Assessed Value.
Equaliaed Assessed Value or Real estate taxes for three of the last six years. have declined or remained
stagnant due to the depressed condition;

There is a reasonable expectation that the development. re-development or rehabilitation of the
commercial development proiect is viable and likelv to go forward on _a reasonably timelv basis if
granted Class 7c designation and will therefore result in the econom ic enhancement of the propertv;

Certi?cation of the commercial development proiect for Class 7c designation will materially assist
development. redevelopment or rehabilitation ofthe propertv and the commercial development propertv
would not go forward without the fut] incentive offered under Class "1c; and

Certification of the commerciaLdevelopment proieet for Class 7c designation is reasonablv expected to
nltimatelv resujt in an increase in real propertv tax revenue?and emplovment opportunities of the

[21"096! 

A certi?ed copv of the Ordinance or Resolution need not be ?led at the time of?lina the Class 7c
eligibility application with the Assessor. but must be filed with the Assessor no tater than the date an
assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 7c. [fthe Resolution is not filed at the
time of the eiipibilitv application. the applicant may instead tile. at that time. a letter from Eli
municipality or the Countv. as the case mav be. con?rmingthat a Resolution or Ordinance supporting
the incentive has been requested.

A copv of_t_he Resolution or letter conlirmina that a Resolution has been requested. whichever is filed

with the application- will be l'orwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretarv of the County Board
for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

Page 31 of 55

d.

must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of such new construction or
substantial rehabilitation to qualityr for a Class "1c incentive. With respect to abandoned properly. the
Class 7c must be made to the Assessor prior to the commencement of the reoecupation of
the vacant and unused property. For the purpose ot'thi?s, Incentive [Class 7e! ?abandoned propertv" shall
mean property where the buildings and other structures. or portions thereof. have been vacant _a_n_d
unused for more than 12 eoptititiotis months and as established by rule of the Assessor.

This classification shall continue for a period ol'3 years from the date such new construction {excludipg
demolition. ifaanae such substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed. or in the case
of abandoned property. from the date of substantial occupancy.

Class 7c incentives that are granted are renewable.

The incentive shall be phase out after 5 years. pursuant to Section Til-6418). After expiration oft'he last
incentive period. the real estate shall revert to the applicable classification under this division.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper review of all
factors relevant to determine eligibility and continued Eligibilitv for the bene?tsprovided under Class
70.

Class 70 Applications must be received by the on or before November 30. 2019 to
receive consideration.

 

Renewal. The Class 7c Incentive shall be limited to only one (1) renewal. The applicant may apply for
Mencvval on or after the 3rd Year of the incentive. but before the aspiration of the 5th Year of the
Incentive. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance and present such municipgd
Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County as to whether it will validate the renewal.
The Incentive may be renewed unless otherwise limited herein.

Effective Year. The Class 7c incentive shall be effective for the tax year the application for the
incentive is ?led. In addition. the Class 7e Incentive may he applied for onlv one year prior to the [as
year in which the Incentive was applied via a certi?cate of error.

8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all newly

constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, as de?ned in this division, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all
buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has
added to their value, including quali?ed land related to the rehabilitation.

a. Land quali?es when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the
square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on
the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook County Tax Reactivation
Project or must be located in one of the following designated geographical areas:

1. An area which has been certi?ed as in need of substantial revitalization in accordance with the
provisions of Section 

2. An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on June 22, 1994, or
the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the municipality in which such real estate is
located, or, if in an unincorporated area, the County must by lawful Resolution determine that
such real estate is consistent with an overall plan for the rehabilitation of the area; or

Page 32 of 55

3. Any one of the following ?ve townships: Bloom; Bremen; Calumet; Rich; and Thornton.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 8, unless:

1. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant
and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The ?nding of abandonment, along with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If the
Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to
validate such, a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class?8, and a
Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling
Ordinance with the required ?nding of special circumstances and present such municipal
Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether
it will validate such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a ?nding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not
be ?led at the time of ?ling the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8.
If the Resolution is not ?led at the time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at
that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a
Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modi?cation (TEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property as de?ned herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 8 under the
TEERM Program, if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures
have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The ?nding of abandonment, along
with the speci?cation of the special circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or
Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is
that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such, a ?nding that
the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required ?nding of
special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certi?ed copy of an Ordinance or Resolution ?nding that special circumstances exist, as
well as a certi?ed copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a ?nding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not be ?led at the time of ?ling the
Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be ?led with the Assessor no later than the date an
assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not ?led at the
time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead ?le, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, con?rming that a Resolution or Ordinance
regarding special circumstances has been requested.

Page 33 of 55

Applications for the TEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Of?ce on or before
November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.

A copy of the Resolution or letter con?rming that a Resolution has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

This classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed, or
in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial reoccupancy, or in the case of
incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice of approval.

Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed during the
last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent assessment level pursuant to if the
following requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of the
incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the municipality
or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial or commercial use of
the property is necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to
renewal of the Class 8; and

3. A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Assessor's
Of?ce before the expiration of the 10 percent assessment level period.

Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program are not renewable. For all
other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property
continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.

If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant to
Section After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate shall revert to the
applicable classi?cation under this division.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper review of
all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the bene?ts provided under Class 8.

The certi?cation of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire ?ve years from the
date such certi?cation is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant of the date of expiration
of certi?cation one year before the date of the expiration of the certi?cation. Such certi?cation,
pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one additional ?ve?year period subject to
reapplication by the appropriate local governing body within the period from one year to six
months prior to the expiration of the initial ?ve?year period.

Page 34 of 55

k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 8
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 8 site. A
copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor?s Of?ce to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to ?le
such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive
for the period relating to the non?ling.

(HQ)Class 9. All real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classi?cation under this division, provided that
such real estate, consisting of land and existing buildings and structures is multifamily residential real
estate; either has undergone major rehabilitation, or is new construction, or both; has at least 35 percent
of the dwelling units leased at rents affordable to low-or moderate-income persons or households; and is
in substantial compliance with all applicable local building, safety and health requirements and codes.

a. To qualify for the Class 9 classi?cation, the applicant must:

1. File an eligibility application with the Assessor prior to commencement of rehabilitation
and/or of new construction;

2. Either undertake and complete a major rehabilitation of the subject property, or undertake and
complete construction of a new building;

3. Maintain the subject property, including any new construction, in substantial compliance with
all local building, safety and health codes and requirements for the duration of the Class 9
classi?cation period;

4. Lease, for the duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period, at least 35 percent of the dwelling
units of the subject property, including any new construction, to tenants at rents which will not
exceed rents affordable to low- and moderate?income persons or households;

5. Agree to make a current listing of Class 9 tenants and their income available to the Assessor
upon request;

6. Further agrees to annually provide the tenants with a list of the permissible Class 9 rents;

7. Agree to notify tenants of the upcoming Class 9 expiration at least one year prior to the
termination of the incentive treatment; and

8. File annually with the Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, for the
duration of the Class 9 classi?cation period, a sworn statement verifying continuous
compliance with the Class 9 provisions of this division.

b. No applicant shall discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, marital status, religion, national
origin or ancestry, or on any other basis prohibited under Federal, State or local law.

0. Upon completion of the major rehabilitation, the applicant must supplement the application by
submitting evidence showing that major rehabilitation did, in fact, occur, the date that the major
rehabilitation was completed and that the real estate complies with all applicable local building,
safety and health requirements and codes. Upon completion of the new construction, the applicant
must supplement the application by submitting an occupancy permit showing the date that the new
construction was completed and ready for occupancy, and evidence that the real estate complies
with all applicable local building, safety and health requirements and codes.

Page 35 of 55

d. Beginning January 1, 2000, the Class 9 classi?cation shall have an initial duration of ten years
from the date that the major rehabilitation was completed. That period may be extended for
additional ten-year periods if:

1. An application is ?led with the Assessor at least 12 months before the expiration of the
incentive period;

2. The applicant presents evidence that the real estate currently complies with all applicable local
building, safety and health requirements and codes; and

3. The Assessor determines that all application quali?cations, except the major rehabilitation or
new construction requirement, were maintained during the incentive period.

6. When the Class 9 classi?cation is due to expire or is terminated by action of the owner or the
Assessor, the property owner shall, in a manner and form determined by the Assessor, notify all
Class 9 tenants of the date of the termination of Class 9 classi?cation. Once the Class 9
classi?cation is terminated, the real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this
division.

(13E)Class S. Real estate otherwise entitled to Class 3 classi?cation under this division, consisting of land
and existing buildings and structures, which is has been subject to a Section 8 contract renewal. The
portion of the land and building eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the number of
Section 8 units bears to the total number of units. The proportion shall be applied only to property used
for residential purposes, and not to portions of the property, if any, used for commercial purposes.

a. Property quali?es for the Class classi?cation if its Section 8 contract has been renewed pursuant
to one of the following alternatives:

1. HUD has approved renewal of the Section 8 contract under the mark up to market option, after
?nding that:

i. The property has received a physical inspection score of at least 60, in an inspection by
HUD's Real Estate Assessment Center, con?rming that the property is decent, safe,
sanitary and in good repair with no uncorrected exigent health and safety (EHS)
violations;

ii. The property does not have a low- and moderate-income use restriction that cannot be
eliminated by unilateral action by the owner. If, however, the current rent is lower than
the use restriction, HUD may use the mark up to market option to increase the rents to the
use restriction level, which would be a renewal qualifying for the classi?cation; and

A rent comparability study conducted by HUD has demonstrated that comparable market
rents are above 100 percent of the HUD Fair Market Rent.

2. HUD has approved a contract renewal for ?ve years of the Section 8 contract under the mark
up to market under HUD's discretionary authority, after ?nding that the property meets at least
one of the required criteria:

i. A vulnerable population is affected,

ii. There is a low vacancy rate in the area, which would make tenant based assistance
dif?cult to use, or a lack of comparable housing, or

Page 36 of 55

 The project is a high priority for the local community, as demonstrated by a contribution
of state or local funds to the property.

3. HUD has approved renewal of a Section 8 contract for a not for pro?t corporation under any
available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal
Policy Guidelines.

Additional requirements for quali?cation for the classi?cation are:

1. At least 20 percent of the living units must be Section 8 units for qualifying low and
moderate-income persons.

2. The owner must agree to retain at least the existing number of Section 8 units for at least ?ve
years after the expiration of the expiring or expired Section 8 contract.

3. For the duration of the Class classi?cation period, applicant must ?le annually with the
Assessor, on or before a date determined by the Assessor, a sworn statement verifying
continuous compliance with the Class provisions of this division.

4. Applicant must agree to notify the Assessor's Of?ce if the Section 8 contract is terminated
prior to its expiration date. Applicant shall provide to the Assessor's of?ce a copy of any
notice of default or notice of abatement received from HUD.

When the applicant applies to HUD for a contract renewal, no less than 120 days prior to the
expiration of the contract, the applicant shall notify the Assessor's Of?ce of the application, on a
form provided by that of?ce. Upon receiving approval of the contract renewal from HUD, the
applicant shall ?le an application for the incentive with the Assessor's Of?ce, on a form provided
by that of?ce. The application shall be supported by a copy of HUD's letter approving the contract
renewal and a copy of the executed renewal contract.

Any property which, as of November 23, 1999, has an existing Section 8 contract with a mark up to
market option may apply for Class classi?cation for the any portion of the 2001 assessment year
encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract term, including any
renewals approved with the mark up to market option. The classi?cation shall continue until the
expiration or termination of the Section 8 contract.

Any property which, as of (DATE AMENDMENT APPROVED), has an existing Section 8
contract renewal may apply for Class classi?cation for any portion of the 2006 assessment year
encompassed within the contract term, and for the remainder of the contract term, including any
renewals approved with the mark up to market option, mark up to market option under 
discretionary authority or a Section 8 contract that has been renewed by a not-for?pro?t corporation
under any available option under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8
Renewal Policy Guidelines. The classi?cation shall continue until the expiration or termination of
the Section 8 contract.

The incentive may be renewed if the Section 8 contract is again renewed under any of the
following three options: 1) the mark up to market option; 2) the mark up to market option under
HUD's discretionary authority; or 3) by a not-for-pro?t corporation under any available option
under HUD's renewal procedures as described in HUD's Section 8 Renewal Policy Guidelines.
Upon ?ling an application with HUD, no less than 120 days prior to termination of the contract, for
renewal of the Section 8 contract, the taxpayer shall provide notice to the Assessor's Of?ce of its
application for renewal. The taxpayer shall provide a copy to the Assessor's Of?ce of 
approval of the contract renewal, or noti?cation of other action.

Page 37 of 55

f. The Assessor's Of?ce shall adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the bene?ts provided
under Class S.

L. Real estate which is to be used for commercial or industrial purposes and which is designated
as Class 3, Class 4, Class 5a or Class 5b pursuant to this division; is a landmark or contributing
building; and has undergone substantial rehabilitation. The substantial rehabilitation must constitute an
investment by the owner of at least 50 percent of the building's full market value as determined by the
Assessor in the assessment year prior to the commencement of the substantial rehabilitation.

a. Generally, the incentive shall apply only to the building and will not apply to the land underneath
the building. However, if the entire building has been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months prior to the ?ling of the eligibility application with the Assessor, the land upon which the
building is situated shall also be eligible for the incentive.

b. Prior to ?ling a Class eligibility application with the Assessor, an applicant must obtain an
ordinance or resolution from the unit of local government in which the real estate is located, which
expressly states that the local government:

1. Has determined that the incentive provided by Class is necessary for the substantial
rehabilitation of the property;

2. Supports and consents to the granting of the incentive; and

3. Has reviewed and accepted its preservation commission's written recommendation of the
project for the Class incentive. This recommendation will specify the project's budget and
proposed scope of work and will specify that the project will meets or exceeds the Standards
of the United States Department of the Interior for Rehabilitation, Preservation, Restoration,
and Reconstruction of historic properties.

0. A certi?ed copy of the ordinance or resolution need not be ?led with the Assessor at the time the
Class eligibility application is ?led but the ordinance or resolution must be ?led with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is ?led to request the class change to Class L.

d. If the ordinance or resolution is not ?led at the time of the eligibility application is ?led, the
applicant shall instead, include the following items with the eligibility application:

1. A letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, con?rming that a resolution
or ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested; and

2. A copy of the preservation commission's recommendation of the project.

e. A copy of the resolution or letter con?rming that a resolution has been requested, whichever is
?led with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board
for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

f. Additionally, to qualify a landmark building or contributing building for Class classi?cation, an
eligibility application must be made to the Assessor within one year prior to the commencement of
substantial rehabilitation. After the substantial rehabilitation has been completed, the preservation
commission shall review the project to determine that it is eligible under Subsection (14) of this
section. The applicant must supplement the eligibility application with a copy of the determination
of the preservation commission prior to classi?cation of the real estate as Class L.

Page 38 of 55

g. The initial Class classi?cation shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date such
substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed.

h. For property which was initially classi?ed as Class 3, 4 or 5b, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a 16 percent assessment level, if the following
requirements are met:

1. The taxpayer noti?es the Assessor's Of?ce of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of the
incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area;

2. The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, adopts a resolution expressly stating that the municipality or
County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial use of the property is
necessary and bene?cial to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the
Class and

3. A copy of that resolution and a completed renewal application are ?led with the Of?ce of the
Assessor before the expiration of the incentive period.

The number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property continues to apply and qualify
for Class L. The notice of intent to request renewal which is ?led with the Assessor's Of?ce will be
forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to
members of the County Board from the affected districts.

i. If, as of November 23,1999, a property is receiving Class treatment, but the assessment level is
higher than 16 percent, that taxpayer may apply for renewal as outlined above and receive a 16
percent assessment level for the prescribed period beginning after the ?ling and approval of the
resolution and renewal application. However, if as of the effective date, the taxpayer?s assessment
is higher than 16 percent and the taxpayer is granted a renewal of the incentive for subsequent
years, no reduction of the current assessment level based on renewal of the incentive will be
granted. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years,
pursuant to Section 74-64. After expiration of the last incentive period, the real estate shall revert to
the applicable classi?cation under this division.

j. For commercial properties, once the original 12-year incentive period has expired, the commercial
Class incentive will expire. The incentive classi?cation will not be subject to renewal and the
real estate shall revert to the applicable classi?cation under this division.

k. The Assessor shall adopt rules consistent with the foregoing necessary to ensure proper review of
all factors relevant to determine initial and continued eligibility for the bene?ts provided under
Class L.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the ?ling of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 
recipients as to the continued landmark status of the property and the number of persons employed

at the Class site. Failure to ?le such reports within the time established by the Assessor's rules
may result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non?ling.

Sec. 74-64. Market value percentages.

The Assessor shall assess, and the Board of Review shall review, assessments on real estate in the various
classes at the following percentages of market value:

(1) Class 1: 10 percent.

Page 39 of 55

See.



(2) Class 2: 10 percent.

(3) Class 3: 16 percent in tax year 2009, 13 percent in tax year 2010, 10 percent in tax year 2011, and
subsequent years.

(4) Class 4: 25 percent.
(5) Class 5a: 25 percent.
(6) Class 5b: 25 percent.

(7) Class 6b: 10 percent for ?rst ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the incentive
is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

(8) Class C: Industrial properties: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year
12; commercial properties: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year
12.

(9) Class 7a: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

(10) Class 7b: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

(l 1} Class 7c: I0 percent Fur ?rst 3 vears, I5 percent in year 4 and 21] percent in vcar 5.

(HQ)Class 8: 10 percent for ?rst ten years and for any subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the incentive
is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

9: 10 percent for an initial ten-year period, renewable upon application for additional ten-year
periods.

(l?3?)Class S: 10 percent for the term of the Section 8 contract renewal under the mark up to market option,
as de?ned herein, and for any additional terms of renewal of the Section 8 contract under the mark up to
market option.

(141_5 Class L, renewable pro erties: 10 ercent for ?rst ten ears and for an subse uent ten- ear renewal

periods; if the incentive is not renewed, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12; commercial
properties: 10 percent for ?rst ten years, 15 percent in year 11 and 20 percent in year 12.

74-65. Quali?cations for commercial development project status.

To qualify as a commercial development project under Class 7a or 7b, it is necessary that the project be
located in an area in need of commercial development in that:

The area is, or has been within the last ten years, designated by Federal, State or local agency as a
conservation, blighted or renewal area or an area encompassing a rehabilitation or redevelopment plan
or project adopted under the Illinois Urban Renewal Consolidation Act of 1961, as amended, or the
Commercial Renewal Re-development Areas Act of 1967, as amended, or that the area is located in a
Federal Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, as proposed and approved by the County Board
on June 22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, or the Commercial District
Development Commission Ordinance of the City of Chicago or designation of like effect adopted under
any similar statute or ordinance;

Page 40 of 55



(C)









(2) Real estate taxes within the area, during the last six years, have declined, remained stagnant or potential
real estate taxes are not being fully realized due to the depressed condition of the area;

(3) There is a reasonable expectation that the development, re-development or rehabilitation of the
commercial development project is viable and likely to go forward on a reasonably timely basis if
granted Class 7a or 7b designation and will therefore result in the economic enhancement of the area;

(4) Certi?cation of the commercial development project for Class 7a or 7b designation will materially assist
development, redevelopment or rehabilitation of the area and the commercial development project
would not go forward without the full incentive offered under Class 7a or 7b; and

(5) Certi?cation of the commercial development project for Class 7a or 7b designation is reasonably
expected to ultimately result in an increase in real property tax revenue and employment opportunities
within the area.

Prior to ?ling a Class 7a or 7b eligibility application with the Assessor, an applicant must obtain from the
municipality in which the real estate is located, or the County Board if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, an ordinance or resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as
the case may be, has determined that the conditions of Subsections of this section are present
and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, supports and consents to the Class 7a or 7b
application to the Assessor. A certi?ed copy of such ordinance or resolution shall be included with the Class
7a or 7b application at the time of ?ling the application with the Assessor. A copy of the ordinance or
resolution, whichever is submitted, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Of?ce to the Secretary of the Board
for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts. The application shall include
any other information deemed necessary by the Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the
commercial development project quali?es for the Class 7a or 7b classi?cation and shall bear the expense of
doing so.

Inasmuch as the County desires to encourage economic development in the neighborhoods of the County,
support the increased use of the incentive by smaller projects and to limit the expense of such applications,
the Assessor shall liberally construe the requirements of Subsections of this section for Class
7a applications.

The Assessor shall adopt rules, including a provision to ensure a proper review of the application and
supporting data.

Certi?cation of a commercial development project shall not be denied by reason of insuf?cient size if it
otherwise quali?es hereunder. In determining what constitutes the ?full incentive offered" as provided in
Subsection of this section, consideration may be given to any lawful intergovernmental participation
agreements under which the project developer has agreed, as a precondition to Class 7a or 7b certi?cation, to
share a portion of future pro?ts with the appropriate taxing districts.

For Class 7a applications, where the Assessor ?nds that the conditions of Subsections of this
section exist, the Assessor shall, within 60 days after receipt of the application and necessary supporting data,
certify the commercial development project eligible for Class 7a treatment under this division.

In order to determine Class 7b applications, upon receipt of the application and all the necessary supporting
data, the Assessor shall forward it to the Economic Development Advisory Committee of the County. The
Committee shall within 30 days return the application to the Assessor with a ?nding stating whether the
conditions of Subsections of this section are present. The Assessor shall review the
application, supporting data, ?ndings of the Committee and other appropriate facts. Where the Assessor ?nds
the conditions of Subsections of this section exist, the Assessor shall, within 30 days of the
receipt of the Committee's ?ndings, certify the commercial development project eligible for Class 7b
treatment under this division.

Page 41 of 55







(1)

Sec.

Class 7a and 7b certi?cations shall lapse within one year from the date of issuance unless new construction
or substantial rehabilitation, or in the case of abandoned property, reoccupation of the commercial
development project has commenced prior to its expiration.

To be certi?ed as an area in need of substantial revitalization for purposes of Class 8 classi?cation it is
necessary that:

(1) The municipality in which the area is located or, if an unincorporated area, the County determine by
lawful resolution that the area is in a state of economic depression and that it is not economically
feasible for private enterprise to accomplish the necessary modernization, rehabilitation, and
development of the area without public assistance and encouragement, or a determination of similar
import;

(2) The municipality or, if in an unincorporated area, the County apply to the Assessor for certi?cation of
the area as one in need of substantial revitalization;

(3) Upon receiving an application to certify an area as in need of substantial revitalization, the Assessor
shall review the application, supporting data and other appropriate factors relevant to a determination of
the severity of the economic conditions of the area. In determining whether the "in need of substantial
revitalization? requirement is met, the Assessor shall give strong consideration and substantial weight to
the fact that an area is located in a Federal empowerment zone or enterprise community, as proposed
and approved by the County Board on June 22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994.

Upon ?nding that existing factors convincingly demonstrate that the area is in need of substantial
revitalization, as de?ned in this division, the Assessor shall grant such certi?cation to the area. In making
this determination statistical data relevant to the surrounding area as well as the speci?c area for which
certi?cation is sought may be considered. The surrounding area for the City of Chicago shall be the
community area as de?ned in this division; for all other areas in the County it shall be, where applicable, the
municipality in which the area is located.

If a municipality within an Enterprise Community, as proposed and approved by the County Board on June
22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, determines by municipal resolution that the area is
in a state of economic depression and that it is not economically feasible for private enterprise to accomplish
the necessary modernization, rehabilitation, and development of the area without public assistance and
encouragement, or a determination of similar import and submits a request for Class 8 certi?cation, such
certi?cation shall be automatic pursuant to this division. However, each property eligible for a Class 8
incentive within the certi?ed area must ?le an application in a timely manner.

Any Class 6a incentive that is still active can be renewed. The Class 6a incentive is de?ned in this division.
The renewal procedures described in Section 74-63 apply to Class 6a as well.

74-66. Property in two or more classes.

Where a single parcel of real estate is partially included in two or more of the above-described classes, each

portion shall be assessed at the assessment level herein prescribed for that class.

Sec.

74-67. Assessor's status and progress report.

A written report on the status and progress of the implementation of this division, or any amendments

thereto, and all rules promulgated by the Assessor hereunder, shall be submitted by the County Assessor to the
President and County Board annually on or before December 1.

Page 42 of 55

Sec. 74-68. Classi?cation system to apply with tax assessment year.





(C)

The incentive provisions of this division provided to qualifying parcels of real estate for Class 6b, Class C,
Class 7a, Class 7b and Class 8 shall expire on December 31, 2015, unless otherwise reviewed by action of
the County. Real estate granted a Class 6, Class 6a, Class 6b, Class 7 or Class 8 classi?cation on or before
December 31, 1994, shall retain such classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division prior to
January 1, 1995. Real estate for which an application for Class 6a, Class 6b, Class 7 or Class 8 classi?cation
is ?led with the Assessor on or before December 31, 1994, and which thereafter is determined by the
Assessor to be eligible for the classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division after January 1,
1995, shall be entitled to receive such classi?cation under such terms and conditions.

Real estate granted a Class 6b, Class 60, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation on or before December
31, 1999, shall retain such classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division prior to January 1,
2000. Real estate for which an application for Class 6b, Class 60, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation
is ?led with the Assessor on or before December 31, 1999, and which thereafter is determined by the
Assessor to be eligible for classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this division existing prior to
January 1, 2000, shall be entitled to receive such classi?cation under such terms and conditions.

Real Estate granted a Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation on or before December 31, 2004,
shall retain such classi?cation under the terms and conditions of the Ordinance prior to January 1, 2005. Real
estate for which an application for Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classi?cation is ?led with the
Assessor on or before December 31, 2004, and which thereafter is determined by the Assessor to be eligible
for classi?cation under the terms and conditions of this Ordinance existing prior to January 1, 2005, shall be
entitled to receive such classi?cation under such terms and conditions.

Sec. 74?69. Applicable assessment level.

The assessment level applicable to real estate classi?ed under incentive Classes 6b, C, 7a, 7b, 9 and 

shall in no event exceed the assessment level which otherwise would have been applicable to such real estate
under the remaining assessment classes provided in this division.

Sec. 74-70. Class 8a and 8b designation/assessment class.



Class 8a. Real estate that is used primarily for industrial or commercial purposes, which real estate would
qualify for a Class 8 designation pursuant to Sections 74-62 through 74-64, except for the fact that the
qualifying use of the property prior to application for the incentive does not comply with the de?nition of
abandoned property provided for in Section can receive a designation as a Class 8a property so
long as the applicant can show that it has complied with all of the requirements necessary to receive a Class 8
designation per Sections 74-62 through 74?64, except for meeting the de?nition of abandonment provided for
in Section but only when the Cook County Board of Commissioners provides a resolution or
ordinance in support of such designation absent abandonment.

(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a resolution or ordinance in support
of Class 8a designation absent abandonment when:

a. An applicant who collects or transmits sales tax has obtained from the municipality in which the
real estate is located or the Cook County Board of Commissioners, if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, an agreement to abate a portion of the local government's sales tax generated
by the industrial or commercial enterprise located on such real estate and such abatement of sales
tax must cover the period of time for which the applicant would qualify for this Class 8a incentive;
and

Page 43 of 55

Applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that due
to national and regional economic conditions beyond its control the industrial or commercial
enterprise has undergone a signi?cant reduction in net operating income of at least 40 percent in
the year it makes application for this incentive as compared to the average net operating income of
the industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three years; and

Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an economic
impact study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise is not economically viable and as such it will cease
operations within 60 days of the submission of an eligibility application for Class 8a designation to
the Cook County Assessor, and thereafter the property will become vacant and unused for an
extended period of time of at least 24 months; and

Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an economic
impact study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
designation as a Class 8a property will allow the industrial or commercial enterprise to be
economically viable and thereby continue its operations so that the industrial or commercial
enterprise can continue to occupy and fully utilize the real estate for an extended period of time.

(2) Such a resolution or ordinance must contain:

a.

A ?nding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that industrial or
commercial enterprise has undergone a signi?cant reduction in net operating income of at least 40
percent in the year it makes application for the incentive as compared to the average net operating
income of the industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three years; and

A ?nding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that Class 8a designation
of the property is necessary for the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise to continue its
operations and that without such designation the industrial or commercial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to become vacant and unused; and

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to the
designation of the property as a Class 8a property absent an abandonment requirement; and

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to the
application made to the Cook County Assessor requesting designation as a Class 8a property absent
an abandonment requirement.

(3) When the real estate is located in an incorporated area of the county, and designation as a Class 8a
property is sought using the provisions of this section, the municipality in which the real estate is
located must provide to the Cook County Assessor a resolution or ordinance that contains the following:

a.

A ?nding by the municipality that it has determined that Class 8a designation of the property is
necessary for the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise to continue its operations and that
without such designation the industrial or commercial enterprise would not be economically viable
causing the property to become vacant and unused; and

A statement by the municipality that it supports and consents to the action by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to support designation of the property as a Class 8a property; and

A statement by the municipality that it supports and consents to the Class 8a application to the
Cook County Assessor; and

Page 44 of 55

(4) Real estate receiving a Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be assessed
at the lowest percentage of market value provided for in Section however the term of the
incentive will be limited to ?ve years only and such Class 8a designation shall not be renewed:

a. After the initial application has been approved and granted, if the subject real estate receiving the
Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this section is sold or the applicant transfers
ownership of any portion of the property at any time prior to the ?ve-year term of the 8a
classi?cation, then the property's Class 8a classi?cation shall be subject to an eligibility review by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the municipality, and the Assessor under the
procedures set forth in this Ordinance for the remainder of the ?ve-year term.

(5) In order for real estate to qualify for a Class 8a designation an eligibility application must be made to
the Cook County Assessor.

(6) Class 8a designation can not be applied to real estate unless the following has occurred: application is
made to the Cook County Assessor; all required municipal and county ordinances and resolutions are
provided to the Cook County Assessor; and the Cook County Assessor determines that the real estate
which is the subject of the application for a Class 8a designation would qualify for designation as a
Class 8 property but for the inability to comply with the de?nition of abandonment pursuant to Section


(7) The Cook County Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this section to determine eligibility for the
bene?ts provided under Class 8a.

(8) Upon receipt of an eligibility application for a Class 8a designation, the Cook County Assessor shall
forward such application and any supporting documentation provided with such application to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners or its designee for consideration as to whether the County Board will
provide a resolution or ordinance in support of a Class 8a designation absent abandonment.

(9) Real estate receiving a Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not be
eligible for a Class 8a designation for any year prior to the assessment year for which an application for
the designation is made to the Cook County Assessor.

(10) The Cook County Board of Commissioners or its designee may adopt rules consistent with this section
that may be needed to ensure proper review of information, data and documents submitted in support of
a request to the County Board for a resolution or ordinance in support of a Class 8a designation as
provided for in this section.

(11) Applicants for a Class 8a designation of property can only make such an application for the following
assessment years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and the Cook County Assessor shall not designate
any real estate as Class 8a property for assessment year 2018 or thereafter.

(12) Real estate that receives a designation as a Class 8a incentive property will lose such designation and
the corresponding reduced level of assessment, if the industrial or commercial enterprise located on the
property ceases operations and the subject real estate becomes vacant and unused.

(13) Real estate that receives a designation as a Class 8a incentive property will lose such designation and
the corresponding reduced level of assessment upon termination of the required partial sales tax

abatement by local government.

Section 74-70 of the Real Estate Classi?cation Ordinance will become effective upon passage.

Page 45 of 55

 Class 8b. Real estate and improvements that house inpatient and outpatient hospital based services, where
the property has been acquired for hospital use by a for-pro?t acquirer unrelated to the not-for-pro?t
disposer, thereby avoiding Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board discontinuation approval,
shall be considered for a Class 8b designation if it meets the requirements of this section and the Cook
County Board of Commissioners provides a resolution or ordinance in support of such designation.

(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a resolution or ordinance in support
of Class 8b designation when:

a.

The applicant is a hospital, as de?ned in the Hospital Licensing Act, or an entity that owns the real
property on which a hospital is located, the hospital is licensed by the state, and the abandonment
of the hospital would require the applicant, or the hospital on behalf of which the applicant owns
the real property on which the hospital is located, to obtain a permit or exemption from the State of
Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board pursuant to the Illinois Health Facilities
Planning Act prior to discontinuing hospital operations and to obtain a second permit or exemption
prior to reopening or otherwise reestablishing the hospital after abandonment;

The applicant demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of the
Class 8b designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be retained for
hospital use with the associated employment bene?ts relative to industrial or commercial use of the



The subject hospital is located in a zip code which has a ten percent or greater incidence of families
and/or individuals below the poverty level, as identi?ed by the US. Census Bureau's most recent
census; and

The subject hospital employs at least 750 full-time equivalents (full-time equivalent jobs being
de?ned as total hours worked by all non full-time employees divided by average annual hours
worked by the full-time employees).

(2) Such a resolution or ordinance must contain:

a.

A ?nding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the applicant
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of the Class 8b
designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be retained for hospital
use; and

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to the
designation of the property as a Class 8b property.

(3) When the real estate is located in an incorporated area of the county, and designation as a Class 8b
property is sought using the provisions of this section, the municipality in which the real estate is
located must provide to the Cook County Assessor a resolution or ordinance that contains the following:

a.

A ?nding by the corporate authorities of the municipality that the proposed redevelopment
contemplated for the subject hospital or the property on which the hospital sits is necessary and
appropriate and that, without a classi?cation having the impact of this section, the special
circumstances that exist on the property on which the subject hospital sits including, but not limited
to, the unique requirement that mandates that the subject hospital's operations are continually
maintained without interruption in order for the State of Illinois Health Facilities and Services
Review Board to issue a certi?cate of need and licensure approval for the continued operation of
the subject hospital and the extraordinary need for the continued operation of the subject hospital
within the applicable region, will not be addressed and the property on which the subject hospital

Page 46 of 55

sits will become vacant and underutilized and cause the continued exasperation of blighted factors
within the municipality and region;

b. A ?nding by the corporate authorities of the municipality that a classi?cation having the impact of
this section is necessary for the redevelopment to occur on the property on which the subject
hospital sits; and

c. A statement by the corporate authorities of the municipality supporting and consenting to the ?ling
of an application for a classi?cation having the impact of this section for the property on which the
subject hospital sits.

(4) Real estate receiving a Class 8b designation pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be assessed
at the lowest percentage of market value and for the term provided for in Section 746401412).

(5) In order for real estate to qualify for a Class 8b designation, a Class 8 or Class 8b application must be
made or have been made to the Cook County Assessor. Any application for Class 8 submitted with
required municipal approval after July 1, 2008, for hospital property where the property was acquired
for hospital use by an unrelated for-pro?t acquirer, avoiding the Health Facilities and Services Review
Board discontinuation approval, shall be reconsidered as an application pursuant to this section upon
supplement of such Class 8 application with the additional information required in this section, if any.
Upon receipt of an application, the Cook County Assessor shall forward such application and any
supporting documentation provided with the application to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
for consideration as to whether the Cook County Board will provide a resolution or ordinance in support
of a Class 8b designation. Real estate receiving a Class 8b designation pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be eligible for such designation beginning in the assessment year during which an
application for the classi?cation having the impact of this section is made to the Cook County Assessor.

(6) Class 8b designation cannot be applied to real estate unless the following has occurred: application is
made or has been made to the Cook County Assessor, and all required municipal and county ordinances
and resolutions are provided to the Cook County Assessor.

Sec. 74-71. De?nition.

Property tax incentive for the purpose of applicability of the Living Wage pursuant to Section 34-160 of the
County's Code means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this
Code for owner-occupied Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily
residential property. For the purpose of this article, "property tax incentive? shall not include a Class 9 designation
granted to supportive living facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income older
persons and persons with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certi?ed by the State Department of Public
Aid pursuant to Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this Code, the County Real Property Assessment
Classi?cation Ordinance.

Sales tax means the Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.

Sec. 74-72. Living wage requirement.

Unless expressly waived by the County Board, not less than a Living Wage, as de?ned in the Cook County
Procurement Code, shall be paid to each Employee of any Employer that receives a Property Tax Incentive for
owner-occupied property. Each Employer receiving a Property Tax Incentive shall comply with all the
requirements and procedures set forth in the County Code Chapter 34 with regard to such Living Wage, including
noti?cation of Employees and all other requirements.

Page 47 of 55

Sec. 74-73 Revocation or Cancellation of Incentive Classification

(a)T 1e tollowing Incentive Classi?cations are subieet to_rey_t_zci_ttion herein:
Class 70

(b)The incentive may be revoked under the following circumstances:
1.Bv rule, as provided by the Assessor,
2.Bv the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance,
the County Board by liesolulion or Ordinance at the request ot'tlte Municipality's submission of
a Municipal Resolution or Ordinance,
4.By request of the taxpayer to cancel.

In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classi_?cation shall be deemed null and void for the tax year in
which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subiect property. In such an instance, the taxpayer Shall be
liable for and shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the di Fferenee in th_e amount of taxes
that would have been collected had the subiect property been assessed as. EL Class 5 property and the amountif
taxes collected under the Incentive Classi?cation as determined by the Assessor.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes( 1)

14-2942
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE and ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MASTERPIECE ACQUISITIONS, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility; and

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Masterpiece
Acquisitions, LLC and Resolution No. 51-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned industrial
facility located at 575 Lively Blvd., Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County District 17,
Permanent Index Number 08-27?202-051-0000; and

WHEREAS, Cook County has de?ned abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after having

been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no
direct ?nancial interest; and

Page 48 of 55

WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial real estate
eligible for the Class 6b can receive a signi?cant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that new
construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of
substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years,
15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the
property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct ?nancial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
?nding the property is deemed abandoned; and

WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase
for value; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned for 21
months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and

WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create one (1) to three (3) full-time jobs; retain;
18 full-time jobs and create seven (7) to 10 construction jobs; and

WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this
speci?c real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property has been
vacant for less than 24 months; there has been a purchased for value and the subject property is in need of
substantial rehabilitation; and

WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an af?davit to the Assessor?s Of?ce stipulating
that it is in compliance with the County?s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class 6b incentive on
the subject property.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 575 Lively Blvd, Elk

Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certi?ed
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce of the Cook County Assessor.

Legislative History 5/21/ 14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate

and Business and Economic Development

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gonnan, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes( 1)

Page 49 of 55

14-2943
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE and ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

ELLA HOLDINGS LLC TONNE SERIES OR ITS NOMINEE 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility; and

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Ella Holdings
LLC Tonne Series or Its Nominee and Resolution No. 61-13 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 1845 Tonne Road, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook
County District 17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-3 00-052-0000; and

WHEREAS, Cook County has de?ned abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after having
been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no
direct ?nancial interest; and

WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial real
estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a signi?cant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that
new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of
substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10
years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the
property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct ?nancial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
?nding the property is deemed abandoned; and

WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase
for value; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned for
seven (7) months at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and

WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create ?ve (5) to twenty (20) full-time jobs;
retain ?ve (5) to 10 full-time jobs and create 10 to 30 construction jobs; and

WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this
speci?c real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property has been
vacant for less than 24 months; will be purchased for value pending approval of the Class 6b; and is in need of
substantial rehabilitation; and

WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an af?davit to the Assessor?s Of?ce stipulating
that it is in compliance with the County?s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class 6b incentive on
the subject property.

Page 50 of 55

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 1845 Tonne Road, Elk
Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certi?ed
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce of the Cook County Assessor.

Legislative History: 5/21/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate

and Business and Economic Development

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes( 1)

14-2945
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
2000 HAWTHORNE AVENUE, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility; and

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from 2000
Hawthorne Avenue, LLC and Resolution No. 57-13 from the Village of Melrose Park for an abandoned industrial
facility located at 2000-2006 Hawthorne Avenue, Melrose Park,, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County District 16,
Permanent Index Number 12?33-400-090-0000 and 12?33-400-091-0000; and

WHEREAS, Cook County has de?ned abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after having
been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no
direct ?nancial interest; and

industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial real
estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a signi?cant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that
new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of
substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10
years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the
property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in
whom the seller has no direct ?nancial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify
?nding the property is deemed abandoned; and

Page 51 of 55

WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase
for value; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building was abandoned for
one (1) month at the time of application, and that special circumstances are present; and

WHEREAS, the applicant estimates that the re-occupancy will create two (2) full-time jobs, one (1) part-time
jobs; retain 40 full-time jobs and three (3) part-time jobs and create three (3) to four (4) construction jobs; and

WHEREAS, the Village of Melrose Park states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this
speci?c real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property has been
vacant for less than 24 months; there has been a purchase for value; and subject property is in need of
substantial rehabilitation; and

WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an af?davit to the Assessor?s Of?ce stipulating
that it is in compliance with the County?s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class 6b incentive on
the subject property.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 2000?2006 Hawthorne

Avenue, Melrose Park, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class
6b; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certi?ed
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce of the Cook County Assessor.

Legislative History 5/21/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate

and Business and Economic Development

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes(1)

14-2955
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE and ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PAUL FAMILY REAL ESTATE VENTURE, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation
6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility; and

Page 52 of 55

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Paul Family
Real Estate Venture, LLC and Resolution No. 15-12 from the Village of Elk Grove Village for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 950 Pratt Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, Cook County District
17, Permanent Index Number 08-34-305-03 6-0000; and

WHEREAS, Cook County has de?ned abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after having
been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no
direct ?nancial interest; and

WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial real
estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a signi?cant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that
new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of
substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years,
15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the
property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 6b and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested buyer,
the County may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding the property is deemed abandoned; and

WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed abandoned
for the purpose of Class 6b and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been abandoned
for 24 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special circumstances are present;
and

WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated two (2) - three (3) full-time jobs; retain 10-12 full-time
jobs and create 25-30 construction jobs; and

WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this
speci?c real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property has been
vacant for over 24 months, there has been no purchase for value and the subject property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and

WHEREAS, the applicant acknowledges that it must provide an af?davit to the Assessor?s Of?ce stipulating
that it is in compliance with the County?s Living Wage Ordinance prior to receiving the Class 6b incentive on
the subject property; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 950 Pratt Boulevard, Elk
Grove Village, Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certi?ed
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce of the Cook County Assessor.

Legislative History: 5/21/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate
and Business and Economic Development

Page 53 of 55

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes( 1)

14-3078
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ADVANCE WELDING SERVICES, LLC CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classi?cation 8
that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an industrial facility; and

WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an application from Advance
Welding Services, LLC and Resolution No. from the Village of South Chicago Heights for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 3301 East End Avenue, South Chicago Heights, Cook County, Illinois,
Cook County District 6, Permanent Index Numbers 32?33-101-031-0000.

WHEREAS, Cook County has de?ned abandoned property as buildings and other structures that, after having
been vacant and unused for at least 24 months, are purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no
direct ?nancial interest; and

WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value. Qualifying industrial real
estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a signi?cant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that new
construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of
substantial re?occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years,
15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the de?nition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding that the
property is abandoned for the purpose of Class 8; and

WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of under 24 months and purchase for value by a disinterested buyer, the
County may determine that special circumstances justify ?nding the property is deemed abandoned; and

WHEREAS, Class 8 requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property is deemed abandoned for
the purpose of Class 8; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building has been abandoned for
12 months, at the time of application, with no purchase for value and that special circumstances are present; and

WHEREAS, the re-occupancy will create an estimated six (6) new full-time jobs; four (4) new part-time jobs and
?ve (5) construction jobs; and

WHEREAS, the Village of South Chicago Heights states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on

this speci?c real estate. The municipal resolution cites the special circumstances include that the property has
been vacant for less than 24 months and there has been a purchase for value; and

Page 54 of 55

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of
Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the property located at 3301 East End Avenue,
South Chicago Heights Cook County, Illinois, is deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8;
and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certi?ed
copy of this resolution to the Of?ce of the Cook County Assessor

Legislative History:5/21/ 14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Subcommittee on Real Estate and
Business and Economic Development

A motion was made by Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Murphy, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes( 1)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Murphy, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, that this be to
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Garcia, Vice Chairman Murphy, Butler, Gorman, Moore, Schneider and Steele(7)

Absent: Reyes(l)

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

 

 

File Id Number 14-1930 Recommended for Approval as Substituted
File Id Number 14-2942 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-2943 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14?2945 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-2955 Recommended for Approval
File Id Number 14-3078 Recommended for Approval
Respectfully submitted,




Ci Irman Secretary

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 55 of 55

