 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Thursday, May 1, 2014 10:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Room 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Murphy,

Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (12)

Absent: Vice Chairman ritchey, Commissioners Goslin, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (5)

Also Present: Dr. orelle Alexander, DMD, MPH System Director of Oral Health

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with Cook
County Code, Sec. 

Dr. Sonia Metha Loretta Hospital

Charles Walker Concerned Citizen

Cornelius Bussell Concerned Citizen

Dr. Gerald Cieben Concerned Citizen

Cedric Yarborough Concerned Citizen

Reginald Akeem Berry, Sr. Founder, Saving Our Sons

999993?

14-2444
Sponsored by: EARLEAN COLLINS and JOAN PATRICLA MURPHY, County Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

ADULT ORAL HEALTH CARE

WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6 of the
1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, this country?s strength and ability to prosper is grounded in the health and safety of its people. For

many years now millions of Americans could not afford adequate healthcare. The Affordable Care Act affords us
an opportunity to provide and improve health care services to every American; and

WHEREAS, while the passage of the Affordable Care Act has moved this country in a direction for all people to
have health insurance, it would be remiss of us not to acknowledge the need for adjustments as a program of this
magnitude is implemented; and

WHEREAS, the Affordable Care Act excludes adult oral health care services while it covers many essential
health bene?ts. It has been acknowledged by oral health care agencies and professionals that oral health care is
essential to insure overall quality of health; and

WHEREAS, the US Surgeon General refers to dental disease as a silent epidemic. In 2000 the US. Surgeon
General issued a report on the Oral Health of American, in it the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial
Research showed the link between general health and oral health. The report went on to say that many systemic
diseases and conditions have oral manifestations. These manifestations may be the initial sign of clinical disease
and as such serve to inform clinicians and individuals of the need for further assessment. More importantly, the
report notes that the oral cavity is a portal of entry as well as the site of disease for microbial infections that affect
general health status; and

WHEREAS, it is also acknowledge by the US. Department of Health and Human Services that the lack of access
to dental care is extremely important because left untreated oral disease can lead not only to pain, infection and
tooth loss, but also contribute to an increased risk for serious medical conditions such as diabetes, heart disease
and poor birth outcomes; and

WHEREAS, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention there are threats to oral health across
one?s lifespan. Nearly one-third of all adults in the United States have untreated tooth decay. One in seven adults
aged 35 to 44 years has gum disease, this increases to one in every four adults aged 65 years and older; and

WHEREAS, according to Oral Health America, the older adult population is the fastest growing segment of the
United States and many are facing a dire situation when it comes to oral health. Accordingly, by 2030 there will
be 72+ million older adults in the U.S., most won?t have access to dental care, impacting overall health; and

WHEREAS, a 2013 study, issued by Advance for Nurse Practitioners and Physicians Assistants, reported that
30% of older adults lose their teeth, 23% have gum disease, 50% have untreated cavities and that there are 30,000
oral and pharyngeal cancers diagnosed annually; and

WHEREAS, the American Dental Association (ADA) states that oral health is essential for a healthy America.
The ADA further states that no law, regulation or mandate will improve the oral health of the public unless
policymakers, patients and dentists work together with a shared understanding of the importance of oral health
and its relationship to overall health; and

WHEREAS, the ADA states that prevention pays and that the key to improving and maintaining good oral health
is by preventing oral disease.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners
call upon the President of the United States, the House and Senate to consider adult oral health care coverage
under the Affordable Care Act.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of the Resolution be tendered to the President of the United
States of America, the House and the Senate.

Dr. Jorelle Alexander, DMD, MPH, delivered a presentation regarding the access to oral health care for adults.
Chairman Suffredin requested that Dr. Alexander?s presentation be entered into the record.

Page 2 of 3

A motion was made by Commissioner Collins, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Proposed
Resolution be recommended for approval. Chairman Suffredin called for a roll call. The motion carried
by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Collins, Daley, Garcia, Murphy, Reyes and
Sims (8)

Nay: Commissioner Gorman (1)

Present: Commissioners Schneider and Silvestri (2)

Absent: Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Gainer, Goslin, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (6)

ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
passed and the meeting was adjourned.

SECTION 2

YOUR COMIVIITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

File ID 14-2444 Recommended for Approval

Respectfully su hm itted,

56901 {92? 

Chairman Secretary

 

 

video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 3 of 3

 

Access to Adult Dental Care

Dr. Jorelle R. Alexander
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
System Director of Oral Health

Legislation 81 Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Cook County Board of Commissioners
May, 1, 2014

 

 

 

 

 

0 Serious and life threatening conditions with the
adult Medicaid population.

 

 

 

A tale of men

0 Two men presenting to Chicago Area Hospital

0 One gentleman who died in August of 2010 due to
untreated tooth decay

Impact on Safety Net Clinics

0 County dental clinics, and our dental schools

0 Patients cannot even afford the signi?cantly reduced
cost of care at these institutions.

0 They are not bringing their children beCause they are
not receiving care.

0 Hospitals, therefore, frequently serve as the provider of
?rst and last resort when an oral health condition
develops

  

 

Shifting to the ER

 

0 The result of this is both a lack of dental treatment
and a major cost shift to the hospitals that is estimated
to be 10 times more expensive than treatment at a
dental clinic.

0 Both patients and policy makers face serious
consequences when oral health problems are
addressed in hospitals.

0 Today, dental problems are one of the top reasons that
Medicaid patients and the uninsured go to the ER.

 

Cost Shifting

0 For patients, ERs are an expensive source for
treatment, and care from these facilities is unlikely to
provide lasting relief.

 

0 Generally, hospitals can provide only short?term relief,
such as medication to treat an infection or temporarily
relieve pain.

 

 

0 It costs the US healthcare system anywhere between
867 Million to 2.1 billion to treat dental conditions in

 

 

hospital in 2010.

0 In patient ER treatment for dental problems average
$6,498 compared to preventive care averaging at $660

  

 

 

 

Data

'0 From 2008 to 2011, Illinois hospitals in the Chicago
metropolitan area had nearly 77,000 emergency or
other types of patient Visits for non-injury, dental?
related ailments.

 

Young Adults

0 As a percentage of all dental Visits, emergency room
Visits by people aged 21 to 34 years increased from 1.5%

 

to The increase among people 35 to 49 years old
was from 0.5% to 

0 Young adults may be turning to emergency rooms for
dental care because they cannot payfor
comprehensive oral care.

 

Pew Study

 

0 The PEW center documented a 15.8% increase in
Emergency Room Visits from 2006?2009 in states that
reduced or eliminated adult dental care programs.

 

0 Recently California, Wisconsin, and Washington State
have restored adult dental due to the overwhelming
need and costs savings.


California Affect

0 It is estimated that when California eliminated its
adult dental coverage in 2009, the state lost
approximately 134 million in federal match Medicaid

funding.

0 In addition, with the multiplier effect, the cut to adult
dental care costs California more than $500 million
including the loss of jobs, wages, and business activity.

 

 

  

1 Systemic Health

0 Health care has been delivered in isolated silos to the
detriment of safety and quality care delivery making it
more dif?cult to meet the needs of our patients who
present with complex conditions that are more conducive
to a multidisciplinary treatment approach.

0 We need to recognize that access to regular dental care is
critical to help detect and diagnose early manifestations of
osteoporosis, certain cancers, eating disorders, substance
abuse, and HIV Infection and progression to AIDS all
which result in better outcomes and lower costs if
identified and treated early.

 

 

Chronic Disease Management

0 United Concordia Study

0 A study conducted by United Concordia shows annual
medical savings of $1,814, $2,956, $1,029 and $3,964 per
member are possible when an individual with diabetes, heart
disease, cerebrovascular disease (stroke), or rheumatoid
arthritis, respectively, receives and maintains treatment for
gum disease.

 

ACA

0 AffordableCare Act (ACA) and the Children?s Health
Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (CHIPRA) 
contain drivers for interprofessional collaboration that
promise to bridge the medical-dental divide to
improve overall health outcomes they only do so for

Children.

