REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL
VETERANS RELATIONS

April 6, 2010

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Peraica, Reyes, Sims,
Schneider and Steele (15)

Absent: Commissioners Collins and Moreno (2)

Also Derek Blaida, Special Assistant and Director of Intergovernmental Affairs, Zahra
Present: Ali, Interim Director of Revenue, Stephen S. Morrill, Morrill Associates; Gregory
M. Gill, Venable, 

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans Relations of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, April 6, 2010 at the hour of
12:30 PM in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,
Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

305025 STEPHEN S. MORRILL, MORRILL ASSOCIATES, P.C. (PROPOSED
CONTRACT). Transmitting a Communication, dated February 4, 2010 from Todd
H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
STEPHEN S. MORRILL OF MORRILL ASSOCIATES, P.C., whose name I am
submitting for consideration as a county lobbyist. Mr. MorriII will serve for a period
of eleven te_n months beginning February 1, 2010 through 
November 30, 2010 in the amount of$657900700 $59,091.00.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $657999799 $59,091.00. Contract period: February 1,
2010 through November 30, 2010. (018-260 Account).
Requisition No. 100180012.

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2010 funds.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans
Relations on 2/9/10.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 6, 2010

PAGE2

Derek Blaida, Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, delivered brief
remarks. Mr. Blaida stated the Governor proposed a budget with a projected $13.5 billion short
fall. Inclusive is a proposed cut to one of the most important streams of revenue to
municipalities, the local municipal distributor fund. The cut would mean a 30% reduction of
Cook County's distribution and the lobbyist will work diligently to keep Cook County's funds. Mr.
Blaida indicated the state will attempt to hold the County harmless as much as possible.

Vice-Chairman Silvestri inquired about the state income tax year in relation to the proposed
State budget. Mr. Blaida stated in Fiscal year 2008, he believed the unincorporated areas of the
County, received approximately $99 per person. This year, the County will receive
approximately $77 per person because of falling income tax rates. The Governor's propOsed
budget, if adopted on its face, would drop to $51 per person which would reduce the County
distribution from about $10.5 million to a little over $7.1 million - a reduction of $3.4 million.

Commissioner Daley requested that Mr. Blaida track any bills that would have an impact on the
County's unfunded mandates and stipulated that these bills should be seriously monitored. Mr.
Blaida stated that he would provide a report on these bills. In addition, Chairman Suffredin
stated that there are other appropriation bills for the Boot Camp and funds for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center that the County has got to fight for because they are not in the
Governor's proposed budget at this point.

Chairman Suffredin requested Stephen S. Morrill, Morrill Associates to provide brief remarks
regarding pension and other budgetary issues. Mr. Morrill, provided a report detailing bills
pending in the 96th Illinois General Assembly that affect the Cook County (see attachment 
which includes the pension reform bill. Mr. Morrill state the pension reform bill passed and
affects both of the County's pension funds.

Chairman Suffredin stated that Cook County now has the only law enforcement with a
retirement age of 67 because Chicago and downstate police/fire funds were exempted from the
bill. Mr. Blaida added that there is no early retirement bill. In addition, Chairman Suffredin
asked the State's Attorney to provide the County with a legal opinion regarding other aspects of
this bill, as well as a legal opinion on a document that the law firm, Sidley Austin LLP.,
distributed through the Commercial Club of Chicago. The Sidley Austin LLP document states
that the County has the right to diminish pension benefits for current County employees' future
earned benefits. Commissioner Gainer indicated she would welcome a clarification from the
State's Attorney Office.

In closing, Chairman Suffredin stated that Mr. Blaida will provide the summary of the pension
bill.
Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to accept the

amendment for Communication No. 305025.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy moved the approval of
Communication No. 305026 as amended. The motion carried.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

305026

APRIL 6, 2010
PAGE 3

SUSAN J. WHITE, SUSAN J. WHITE ASSOCIATES, INC. (PROPOSED
CONTRACT). Transmitting a Communication, dated February 4, 2010 from Todd
H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
SUSAN J. WHITE OF SUSAN J. WHITE ASSOCIATES, INC., whose name I am
submitting for consideration as a county lobbyist. Ms. White will serve for a period
of eleven tea beginning February 1, 2010 through December?34720449 November

30, 2010 in the amount of$4?257000700 $113,637.00.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $113,637.00. Contract period: February 1,
2010 through December?34% November 30. 2010 (490-260 Account).
Requisition No. 104901005.

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2010 funds.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans
Relations on 2/9/10.

Chairman Suffredin stated that Susan White could not be present for the committee, however
Ms. White has been presenting reports.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to accept the
amendment for Communication No. 305026

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy moved the approval of
Communication No. 305026 as amended. The motion carried.

305027

GREGORY M. GILL, VENABLE LLP (PROPOSED CONTRACT). Transmitting a
Communication, dated February 4, 2010 from Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook
County Board of Commissioners:

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into a contract with
GREGORY M. GILL OF VENABLE, LLP, whose name I am submitting for
consideration as a county lobbyist. Mr. Gill will serve for a period of eleven te_n
months beginning February 1, 2010 through November 30
2m in the amount of $113,637.00.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $4257000700 $113,637.00. Contract period: February 1,
2010 through Desember?34,?2040 November 30. 2010. (490?260 Account).
Requisition No. 104901004.

 

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2010 funds.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans
Relations on 2/9/10.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 6, 2010

PAGE 4

Gregory M. Gill, Venable, delivered brief remarks and answered questions. Commissioner
Peraica inquired about quarterly reports.

Mr. Gill, stated that he can provide quarterly reports for the contractual period of February 1,
2010 through November 30, 2010. Chairman Suffredin stated it is the will of the body to receive
quarterly report from Gregory M. Gill, Venable, LLP

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to accept the
amendment for Communication No. 305027

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy moved the approval of
Communication No. 305026 as amended. The motion carried.

Commissioner Peraica voted No on the above item.

305671 REVENUE DIRECTOR (APPOINTMENT). Transmitting a Communication, dated
March 9, 2010, from Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of
Commissioners:

Pursuant to 2-433 of Chapter 2 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, I hereby
appoint Ms. ZAHRA ALI to the position of Revenue Director effective immediately.

Ms. Ali received her Bachelor's degree in Business Administration in 2002 from
Loyola University where she majored in finance and minored in management. Ms.
Ali later received her Master's Degree in Business Administration in 2007 from the
Keller Graduate School of Management.

Ms. Ali is the current Acting Director of Revenue and has extensive experience with
Cook County ?nances in that she has held several finance positions from 2002 to
the present. Ms. Ali?s experience specifically includes holding the key finance
positions of Deputy Director of the Department of Budget and Management
Services and, more importantly, Deputy Director of the Department of Revenue.

Ms. Ali?s skills and experience are, and will continue to be, an asset to the Cook
County Department of Revenue.

I submit this communication for your approval.
*Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans

Relations on 3/16/10.

Zahra Ali, Interim Director of Revenue provided a brief overview of her qualifications which was
followed by a brief presentation (see attachment 

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
APRIL 6, 2010

PAGE 5

Chairman Suffredin requested that the following documents in support of Zahra Ali, Interim
Director of Revenue be entered into the record:

1. Resume of Zahra Ali.

2. Letter dated March 15, 2010 from M. Zia Hassan, PHD., Dean Emeritus and Professor
of Management Science, Stuart Scholl of Business, Illinois Institute of Technology.

3. Letter dated March 21, 2010 from Grace L. Colbert-Mauldin.
4. Letter dated March 15, 2010 from The Honorable Dwight W. Welch, Mayor of Country
Club Hills.

Vice Chairman Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved the approval of
Communication No. 305671. The motion carried.
Commissioner Peraica voted No on the above item.
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Daley moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Vice Chairman
Silvestri. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 305025 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 305026 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 305027 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 305671 Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation,
Intergovernmental Veterans

Rafi? 

Larry Svuffredih,IChairman

    

- ?y


/Ma[Ihew B. DeLeon?, Secretary

SPRINGFIELD STATUS REPORT

Prepared by Stephen S. Morrill

II.

BUDGET ISSUES

Governor Quinn proposed his FY 2011 state budget on March 10. The current
projected cumulative de?cit of our state is $13.5 billion. The Governor has made
approximately $2 billion in ef?ciencies in state government to reduce the de?cit to
$11.5 billion. Of that $11.5 billion, $5.7 billion is the result of unpaid bills from the
prior ?scal years leaving the current ?scal year operating de?cit of $5.8 billion.

In his FY11 budget address, the Governor proposed a one-time, $300 million
reduction to units of local government across our state through a reduction in aid from
the Local Government Distributive Fund. Currently, municipalities, based on
population in their cities and towns and counties, based on its population living in its
unincorporated areas, receive aid from the state based on headcount from a fund from
1/10th of 1% of income tax proceeds generated in the ?scal year. The Governor?s
proposal reduces this amount by 30%.

Two years ago, counties received $91 per resident in the unincorporated areas of the
county. As state income tax revenues have fallen, today we receive approximately
$77 per resident. If the Governor?s proposal is adopted by the Illinois General
Assembly, it is projected that counties would only receive about $51 per resident. In
the aggregate, Cook County currently receives approximately $10 million from
LGDF. The Governor?s proposal would reduce this amount by $3 million.

PENDING BILLS OF INTEREST
SB 1946 (Cullerton/Madigan) Sent to the Governor

Amends the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. Exempts the changes made to the
Illinois Pension Code under this amendatory Act from provisions providing that, if
there is a con?ict between the Act and any other law, the provisions of the Act or any
collective bargaining agreement negotiated under the Act shall prevail and control.
Amends the Illinois Pension Code. Makes changes applicable to persons who ?rst
become employees and participants under any system under the Code, other than a
downstate police or downstate ?re?ghter pension fund, the Chicago Police pension
fund, the Chicago Firemen pension fund, or the Retirement Plan for Chicago Transit
Authority Employees or service as a SLEP under IMRF, on or after the effective date
of the amendatory Act concerning the following: conditions for retirement,
calculation of salary, annual increases, survivor's annuities, and application of
alternative formula provisions. Amends the Chicago Teacher Article of the Illinois
Pension Code. Sets forth a new employer contribution schedule.

House vote on 3-24-10: 92-17?7
Senate vote on 3-24-10: 48-6?3

HB 354 (Osterman/E. Jones, -- Senate Assignments Committee

Amends the Property Tax Code. Provides that if any property tax is twice assessed for
the same year, or assessed before it becomes taxable, and the erroneously assessed
taxes have been paid either at sale or otherwise, or if properly assessed taxes have
been overpaid (instead of or have been overpaid) by the same claimant or by different
claimants, the county collector shall refund the taxes. Provides that in counties having
a population of more than 3,000,000, if the county collector receives payment of any
erroneously assessed taxes or overpayment of properly assessed taxes, the county
collector shall: (1) pay, within 120 days after receipt of the payment or overpayment,
a refund to the proper claimant regardless of whether a claim for refund is ?led; or (2)
when more than one person made the payment or overpayment and the county
collector cannot determine to whom the refund should be made, send a notice within
30 days by certi?ed mail return received requested after receipt of the payment or
overpayment advising those persons that a refund is due and the procedures to follow
to obtain a refund.

House vote on 3-24-10: 114-0-1
HB 6062 (Feigenholtz/Garrett) -- Senate Assignments Committee

Provides that a county with a population of more than 3,000,000 is required by accept
property tax payments by credit card beginning on January 1, 2012 (instead of
January 1, 2011). Provides that all service charges or fees associated with the
processing or accepting of a credit card payment by the county shall be paid by the
taxpayer and shall not be refundable. Provides that the county shall not incur liability
for or associated with the collection of a property tax payment by credit card.
Provides that the acceptance of credit cards by a county with a population of more
than 3,000,000 is not subject to the public hearing requirement of the Local
Governmental Acceptance of Credit Cards Act. Amends the Local Government
Acceptance of Credit Cards Act to make conforming changes.

House vote on 3-17-10: 112-3-0

SB 935 (Cullerton/D?Amico) House Rules Committee

Amends the Illinois Vehicle Code. Provides that in municipalities with a population
of less than 1,000,000 and counties with a population of less than 3,000,000, an
ordinance that provides for the administrative adjudication of automated traffic law
enforcement system violations shall require that all determinations by a technician
employed or contracted by the municipality or county that a motor vehicle committed
a violation must be reviewed and approved by a law enforcement of?cer. Provides
that in municipalities with a population of 1,000,000 or more and counties with a
population of 3,000,000 or more, an ordinance that provides for the administrative
adjudication of automated traf?c law enforcement system violations shall require that
all determinations by a technician employed or contracted by the municipality or
county that a motor vehicle committed a violation must be reviewed and approved by
a law enforcement of?cer or by an additional technician trained in traf?c
management and not employed by the contractor who employs the technician who
made the initial determination. Provides that in all municipalities and counties, the
automated traf?c law ordinance shall require that no additional fee shall be charged to
the alleged violator for exercising his or her right to an administrative hearing, and
the automated traf?c law ordinance shall provide that after an administrative hearing
where a person is found to have committed a violation, the person shall be given
additional time to pay the civil penalty imposed equal to the amount of time that the
person had to pay the original violation upon issuance. Provides that a municipality or
county that produces a recorded image of a motor vehicle's violation must make the
recorded images of a violation accessible to the alleged violator by providing the
alleged violator with a website address, accessible through the Internet. Provides that
a county or municipality, including a home rule county or municipality, may not use
an automated traf?c law enforcement system to issue violations in instances where
the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does not enter the intersection during
the cycle of the red signal indication unless one or more pedestrians are present, even
if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a stop line or crosswalk where a driver is
required to stop. Provides that a municipality or county that has one or more
intersections equipped with an automated traf?c law enforcement system must
provide notice to drivers by posting the locations of the systems on the municipality
or county website. Provides that an intersection equipped with an automated traf?c
law enforcement system must have a yellow change interval that conforms with the
Illinois Manual on Uniform Traf?c Control Devices published by the Illinois
Department of Transportation. Provides that a municipality or county shall make a
certi?ed report to the Secretary of State in order to suspend a registered owner's
driving privileges whenever a registered owner of a vehicle has failed to pay any ?ne
or penalty due and owing as a result of 5 automated traf?c law enforcement system
violations.

Senate vote on 3-25-10: 45-10-0

SB 3089 (Raoul/Burke) -- House Rules Committee

Amends the Property Tax Code. Provides that the corporate authorities of a home rule
municipality with 1,000,000 or more inhabitants, by ordinance, may order the county
clerk to abate any percentage of the taxes levied by the municipality and any other
taxing district on each parcel of certain quali?ed residential property within the
corporate limits of the municipality that is owned by the surviving spouse of a fallen
police of?cer or rescue worker. Effective immediately.

Senate vote on 3-11-10: 52-4-0
SB 3446 (Silverstein/Joyce) -- House Rules Committee

Amends the. Property Tax Code. In a Section concerning payments under the
accelerated method of billing, provides that, for tax year 2010, the estimated ?rst
installment of unpaid taxes shall be deemed delinquent and shall bear interest after
April 1 (instead of March 1) at the rate of 1.5% per month. Effective immediately.

Senate vote on 3-10-10: 55-0-0
HB 6239 (Rita) Passed the House

Provides that a counties with a population over 750,000 may provide for a system of
administrative adjudication of violations of certain county ordinances. Provides that
administrative adjudication is not the exclusive method to enforce the ordinances.
Sets forth the powers and quali?cations of hearing of?cers. Provides for notice and
opportunity for a hearing at administrative proceedings. Provides that the rules of
evidence do not apply in administrative hearings. Provides for judicial review of
administrative decisions. Allows a home rule county to enforce judgments of hearing
of?cers. Provides that existing systems of administrative adjudication shall not be
affected. Amends the Illinois Vehicle Code. Provides that a municipality or "county"
may provide for a system of administrative adjudication for violations of parking,
standing, compliance, and automated traf?c laws. Sets forth the requirements for a
county ordinance establishing a system of administrative adjudication. Provides that
the system of administrative adjudication shall provide for a traf?c compliance
administrator, (ii) a parking, standing, compliance, or automated traf?c law violation
notice, a hearing for the registered owner of a vehicle cited in a violation notice,
(iv) a petition to set aside a determination of liability for a violation, and other
necessary provisions. Makes other changes. Effective immediately.

House vote on 3-25-10: 96-13?1

 OTHER LEGISLATION OF INTEREST
HB 4973 (Reitz/Leuchtefeld) -- Postponed in Senate Local Government Committee

Amends the Counties Code and the Illinois Municipal Code. Provides that a county or
a municipality may, by ordinance, impose a fee against persons making false alarms.
Provides that a fee may not be imposed if the emergency telephone system or a
public safety agency is noti?ed that the alarm is unfounded before a public safety
agency responds to the alarm or (ii) the alarm system is being installed, repaired,
maintained, or tested and the emergency telephone system and public safety agency
are noti?ed in advance of the activity in connection with the alarm system. Provides
that a fee may not be imposed against a person if the call was initiated due to
that could require emergency medical attention. De?nes "alarm" and "false
alarm".

House vote on 2-18-10: 68-48-1
HB 5128 (N ekritz) -- Referred to House Rules Committee

Amends the Cook County Forest Preserve District Act. Provides that the
commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County shall be elected from 3
speci?ed election districts. Provides the election procedures and terms of of?ce for
the 9 commissioners. Provides that the president, with the advice and consent of the
board of commissioners, must appoint a general superintendent. Provides that the
general superintendent is the chief administrative of?cer of the district. Amends the
Election Code. Provides that, at the general election in the appropriate even?
numbered years, the of?ces of commissioner of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County shall be ?lled. Contains other provisions. Effective immediately.

Legislation will not m0ve -- sponsor will not move bill

HB 6249 (Bradley) -- Referred to House Rules Committee

Creates the Family and Personal Protection Act. Establishes statewide uniform
standards for the issuance of permits to carry concealed ?rearms in this State. Vests
in the Department of State Police the authority to issue concealed ?rearms permits to
quali?ed applicants. Requires an applicant to complete a training course in handgun
use, safety, and marksmanship. Also requires instruction in the law relating to ?rearm
use. Creates the Citizen Safety and Self?Defense Trust Fund administered by the
Department. The moneys in the Fund shall be used to administer the Act. Establishes
restrictions on carrying concealed ?rearms. Establishes standards for the training
course and for certifying instructors. Amends the Firearm Owners Identi?cation Card
Act. Provides that the Family and Personal Protection Act supersedes an ordinance of
a unit of local government inconsistent with that Act. Prohibits a home rule unit from
regulating the issuance of permits to carry concealed ?rearms. Amends the Criminal
Code of 1961. Exempts, from an unlawful use of weapons and aggravated unlawful
use of weapons violation, persons who carry or possess ?rearms in accordance with
the Family and Personal Protection Act. Effective immediately.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session
HB 6035 (Bradley) Referred to House Rules Committee

Amends the Counties Code and the Illinois Municipal Code. Provides that a county or
municipality may not require a law enforcement of?cer to issue a speci?c number of
citations or warnings within a designated period of time. Provides that a county or
municipality may not, for purposes of evaluating a law enforcement of?cer's job
performance, compare the number of citations or warnings issued by the law
enforcement of?cer to the number of citations or warnings issued by any other law
enforcement of?cer who has similar job duties. Limits home rule powers.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session

HB 5450 (N ekritz) -- Referred to House Rules Committee

Amends the School Code. Provides that educational service centers may provide
training, technical assistance, coordination, and planning in the area of ?nancial
planning, consultation, and services. Provides that upon the removal from of?ce,
disquali?cation for of?ce, resignation from of?ce, a vacancy in the of?ce, or
expiration of the current term of of?ce of the regional superintendent of schools,
whichever is earlier, centers serving that portion of a Class II county school unit
outside of a city of 500,000 or more inhabitants shall have and exercise, in and with
respect to each educational service region having a population of 2,000,000 or more
inhabitants and in and with respect to each school district located in any such
educational service region, all of the rights, powers, duties, and responsibilities
theretofore vested by law in and exercised and performed by the regional
superintendent of schools for that area (only to the extent that additional money is
appropriated for or provided to the centers). Provides that in educational service
regions containing 2,000,000 or more inhabitants, the of?ce of regional
superintendent of schools is abolished upon the removal from of?ce, disquali?cation
for of?ce, resignation from of?ce, a vacancy in the of?ce, or expiration of the current
term of of?ce of the regional superintendent of schools, whichever is earlier (instead
of the of?ce being abolished on July 1, 1994). Allows money in an institute fund to
be used by the regional superintendent to defray all costs associated with the
administration of teaching certi?cates. In the Duties of County Board Article,
removes language that states that on and after July 1, 1994, certain provisions in that
Article shall have no application in any county having a population of 2,000,000 or
more inhabitants. Effective July 1, 2010.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session

HB 5033 (Flowers) Referred to House Rules Committee

Creates the Nursing Care and Quality Improvement Act. Provides that each hospital
shall implement a staf?ng plan that (1) provides adequate, appropriate, and quality
delivery of health care services, (ii) protects patient safety, and is consistent with
the requirements of the Act. Sets forth the minimum direct care registered nurse-to-
patient ratios required in a unit of a hospital during each shift in that unit. Sets forth
development and reevaluation requirements for the staf?ng plan. Prohibits a hospital
from discharging, discriminating against, or retaliating against a nurse in any
manner with respect to any aspect of employment based on the nurse's refusal of a
work assignment under certain conditions or (ii) a nurse or any individual, who, in
good faith, reports a violation of the Act, initiates, cooperates, or otherwise
participates in an investigation or proceeding under the Act, or informs or discusses
with other individuals or with representatives of hospital employees a violation or
suspected violation of the Act. Sets forth penalties for Violation of the Act.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session

HB 6126 (McGuire) Passed the House
Ammds the Property Tax Code. Provides that all applications for judgment and order
of sale for taxes and special assessments on delinquent properties shall be made

within 90 days after the second installment due date (instead of during the month of
October). Effective immediately.

House vote on 3-26-10: 93-0-0
HB 6021 (Watson) -- Referred to House Rules Committee

Amends the Property Tax Code. Provides that payment for delinquent taxes may be
made at any time before the day of the sale (now, any time before the sale). Effective
immediately.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session
HB 5760 (J. Gordon) -- Referred to House Rules Committee
Amends the Counties Code. Provides that in actions for the violation of any county
ordinance, the ?rst process shall be a summons, "a notice to appear", or a warrant.
Provides that the county sheriff of the county where the violation occurs may issue a

notice to appear. In the case of a Violation of a county's building code or property
maintenance code, the county's code enforcement of?cer may issue the notice to

appear.
Bill unlikely to advance this spring session

SB 2981 (Radogno/Bellock) -- House Human Services Committee

Amended in Senate to be a shell bill for MRSA legislation.

Senate vote on 3-12-10: 51-0-0

SB 2816 (Jacobs) Referred to Senate Assignments

Amends the Video Gaming Act. Provides that, if a municipality or county prohibits
video gaming pursuant to the Act, then the Board, with the cooperation of the
Department of Revenue, shall impose a surcharge in an amount determined
by the Board that the municipality or county would have been contributing under the
Act had the municipality or county not prohibited video gaming, which shall be based
on the maximum amount of machines that may be located within the municipality or
county. Provides that, if a municipality or county fails to remit the surcharge, then the
amount of the surcharge shall be deducted from any amounts certi?ed to be
allocated to the municipality or county from the Local Government Distributive Fund
in the next consecutive allocation. Makes conforming changes in the State
Revenue Sharing Act. Amends the State Mandates Act to require implementation
without reimbursement. Effective immediately.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session
SB 2486 (Pankau) -- Referred to Senate Assignments

Amends the Cigarette Tax Act and the Cigarette Use Tax Act. Provides that tax
stamps sold on or after July 1, 2010 must be counterfeit-resistant and with
certain information. Provides that the stamps shall be produced in a secure facility
certi?ed in accordance with the security assistance standards established in 2005 by
the American National Standards Institute and the North American Security Products
Organization, (ii) incorporate a minimum of 4 layers of overt, semi-covert, and covert
data, and instantaneously capture data. Requires distributors to acquire
certain necessary equipment and provide the data to the Department of
Revenue in the form and manner required by the Department. Requires the
Department of Revenue to retain the data using a secure system. Provides that any
distributor having stamped packages of cigarettes in his or her possession on July 1,
2010 may continue to possess, deliver, or distribute those stamped cigarettes.
Effective immediately.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session

SB 3355 (Schoenberg) Referred to Senate Assignments

Amends the Counties Code. Requires that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
establish a permanent independent governing body for the Cook County Public
Health System. Requires that the General Assembly must, by joint resolution,
determine the independence of the governing body. Provides that if the Cook County
Board of Commissioners does not establish a governing body and the General
Assembly does not approve the governing body within 120 days after the effective
date of the amendatory Act, then the Cook County Public Health System may not
receive any State moneys until the governing body is established and approved.
Limits home rule powers. Effective immediately.

Bill unlikely to advance this spring session
SB 2505 (Frerichs) -- Senate Third Reading

Amends the Property Tax Code. Provides that municipalities and counties may
establish green energy Special service areas. Provides that those green energy special
service areas shall include only property for which each owner of record has executed
a contract or agreement with the county or municipality consenting to the inclusion of
the property within the green energy special service area. Provides that green energy
special service areas are not subject to certain notice and hearing requirements set
forth in the Property Tax Code. Provides that the owner of record of each parcel of
property within a green energy special service area may arrange, through an
agreement with the municipality or county, for speci?c energy ef?ciency
improvements or renewable energy improvements and may obtain ?nancing for such
improvements through the process set forth in the ordinance establishing the special
service area. Provides that counties and municipalities may levy property taxes in
connection with green energy special service areas. Provides that counties and
municipalities may issue bonds in connection with those special service area projects
and may sell, assign, or pledge those bonds to the Illinois Finance Authority. Amends
the Illinois Finance Authority Act to make conforming changes. Contains other
provisions.

Senate Amendments #1-3 ?led and recommended for adoption. Deadline
extended until April 15.

IV.

SB 3401 (Schoenberg/Osterman) -- House Rules Committee

Amends the Property Tax Code. Provides that a charge for taxes and interest due on
an omitted assessment shall not be made against property that was omitted more than
5 years prior to the current assessment year. Provides that charges may not be made
for omitted assessments if the assessor failed to notify the board of review, (ii) the
assessor received a building permit, a survey, an aerial photograph, or a real estate
transfer declaration for the property, or the property was the subject of an
assessment appeal before the assessor or the board of review that had included the
intended omitted property as part of the assessment appeal and provided evidence of
its market value. Provides that the assessor shall transmit a copy of any decision and
all evidence used in a decision regarding an omitted assessment to the board of
review on or before November 1. Effective January 1, 2011.

Senate vote on 3-18-10: 55?0-0
SB 3529 (Viverito/Mathias) -- House Rules Committee
Amends the Property Tax Code. In Cook County, provides that the estimated ?rst
installment of unpaid taxes due in 2010 shall be deemed delinquent and shall bear

interest after March 1 at the rate of 0.5% per month. Effective immediately.

Senate vote on 3-17?10: 56-0-0

2010 SESSION DEADLINES

Senate Deadlines

February 11, 2010 Introduction of Senate Bills

0 March 5, 2010 Substantive Senate Bills out of Senate Committees

0 March 19, 2010 Third Reading Deadline to Pass Senate Bills out of the
Senate

0 April 23, 2010 Substantive House Bills out of Senate Committees

0 May 7, 2010 Third Reading Deadline to Pass House Bills out of the Senate

0 May 7, 2010 ADJOURNMENT

House Deadlines

0 February 11, 2010 Introduction of House Bills
March 12, 2010 Substantive House Bills out of House Committees
March 26, 2010 Third Reading Deadline to Pass House Bills out of the
House

0 April 23, 2010 Substantive Senate Bills out of House Committees

0 May 7, 2010 Third Reading Deadline to Pass Senate Bills out of the House

0 May 7, 2010 ADJOURNMENT

 

 

 

Cook County Government
Department of Revenue
President Todd H. Stroger JrIn".

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current Revenue Structure

Business Strategy Overview

Key Aspects to Reach Our Goal
Plan for Success

Road Map Proposal

Closing

 

 

 

 

 

Current Revenue Structure

 

Current Organization

 

. Divisions Collections, Compliance/Investigations, Delinquent
Property Tax

 

oPrimary responsible for collection and enforcement of Home Rules
Taxes

 

Rev Observations 

 

 

oThe aged current operating model
. Resource limitations

oNeed of introducing continuous process improvement techniques

 

 

 

 

Business Strategy

 

 

Value Chain Supported activities to provide Our end result.

 

Revenue
Registration Recovery



Collection . 
. IllVestlgatlon Compliance
Processmg Enforcement

 

 

 

 

 

 

Key Aspects to Reach Our Goal

 

Enhance c- - 
with othgx-i- .

ax

Ehf?i-?cemeht.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Plan for Success

 

Business
Process
Analysis

Automation

. Home Rule Tax
Ordinances
Amendments

Other
Initiatives

 

 

 

 

Road Map Proposal

 

 

 

Ke Initiatives

 

. Revenue de?ciency and delinquency
assessment process.

. Home Rule Tax Ordinance
amendments.

oGeneraI Business License web
application.

oCigarette Reward Program.

oTaxpayer Registration web
application.

. Lockbox and e-payment service.

oCigarette Database System. 

oCoIIection agency engagement.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Recovery of revenues.

. Home Rule Tax Enforcement.

oExceed and/or meet revenue
projections.

oCreate a ?Presence? in Cook County.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

