ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013

1.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
*************
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

324284

AN AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 114 SIGNS, ARTICLE II
BILLBOARD AND OFF-PREMISES OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS, SECTIONS
114-32 AND 114-33 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 114
Signs, Article II Billboard and Off-Premises Outdoor Advertising Signs, Sections 114-32
and 114-33 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 114
Signs, Article II Billboard and Off-Premises Outdoor Advertising Signs, Sections 114-32
and 114-33 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:
Sec. 114-32. - Sign permits.
(a)
Permit requirement. A sign permit issued by the Bureau of Administration
Department of Building and Zoning is required for all new and existing billboards and offpremises outdoor advertising signs as follows:
(1)

New signs. Applications shall be made for available sign permits to the
Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning for its
submittal to the Zoning and Building Committee of the County Board.

(2)

Existing nonconforming signs. The Commissioner of Building and Zoning
is authorized to cause to be removed signs which are in violation of any
applicable ordinances and regulations of the County.

(b)

Permit application procedures.

(1)

Applications for available sign permits shall be made to the Bureau of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning on forms furnished by
the Bureau Department. All applications shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the County Board.

(2)

Applications shall include information required to assure compliance with
regulations set forth in this article and with all other applicable ordinances
and regulations of the County.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 2

(3)

Applicants shall provide a bond, in a form acceptable to the Bureau of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning, to ensure that signs
will be constructed, maintained and removed in accordance with this
article. Bonds shall permit the County to make, or cause to be made,
emergency repairs and/or removal of signs.

(4)

Sign permits shall be issued by the Bureau of Administration Department
of Building and Zoning upon satisfaction of all requirements and the
approval of the County Board. Any permit may be revoked at any time by
the Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning upon a
finding that a sign violates any provision of this article, or any other
applicable County ordinance or regulation, or when a permittee has made
false representations in securing a sign permit.

(c)
Fees. In addition to the application fee required to obtain a sign permit, an
annual fee of $600.00 shall be required to maintain the permit.

Sec. 114-33. - General requirements applicable to all signs.
(a)
Signs shall not be erected so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from
any door or window, nor shall signs be erected so as to impair access to the roofs of
buildings.
(b)

Signs shall not be attached to trees or utility poles.

(c)
Signs shall not be painted, erected or constructed on the walls or roofs of
buildings or structures.
(d)

Signs shall not use strobe lights.

(e)
Signs which are indirectly illuminated shall be illuminated by a steady,
stationary, shielded or shaded light source and shall be directed solely at the sign so that
the light intensity or brightness does not shine on adjacent properties or create traffic
hazards for motorists or pedestrians.
(f)
Signs shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind pressure of 30
pounds per square foot, and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required by the
County Building and Environmental Ordinance.
(g)
Signs made of metal shall have faces or backgrounds constructed of metal
not thinner than No. 28 B&S gauge.
(h)
(i)
unfaded.

Signs containing glass shall use safety glass.
Signs containing letters and characters shall be legible, cleanly defined and

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 3
(j)
Sign parts and supports shall be painted and maintained to prevent rusting,
rotting, illegibility or other deterioration. All broken or missing parts of signs shall be
promptly replaced.
(k)
Signs which are freestanding shall be designed and engineered by an
engineer licensed in the State of Illinois. Stamped drawings shall be submitted to the
Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning along with permit
applications, which certify that signs comply with all structural regulations in this article
and with all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the County.
(l)
Signs shall not contain any fluttering, undulating, swinging, rotating,
flashing or other moving parts, except:
(1)

Signs that give time and temperature information; and

(2)

Multiple-message signs with displays that change not more frequently than
once every ten seconds.

(m)

Signs shall display the name of the permit holder.

(n)
Signs for which a permit has expired, which are unsafe, poorly maintained,
insecure or which have been maintained, constructed or erected in violation of the
provisions of this article, or with other applicable ordinances and regulations of the County
may be removed, or caused to be removed by the Commissioner of Building and Zoning.
(o)
Signs shall not display specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activity as defined in Appendix A, Zoning.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.
* Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on July 17, 2013.
324285

AN AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 130 WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES, SECTIONS 130-3 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni
Preckwiinkle, Cook County Board of Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 130
Wireless Telecommunication Facilities, Section 130-3 of the Cook County Code shall be
amended as follows:
Sec. 130-3. General Requirements.
(a)
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms will be given the
meaning described herein:

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 4
(1)

“Antenna” means any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio,
data, internet, or television communication through the sending or
receiving of electromagnetic waves, and includes related equipment
attached to a structure for the purposes of providing such service.

(2)

“Building” is defined in Article 14 of Appendix A, Zoning.

(3)

“Co-location” means the shared use of a structure by more than one
wireless telecommunications service provider.

(4)

“Service Provider” means any corporation, company, association, firm,
partnership, limited liability corporation, other entity or individual or
person which provides wired or wireless telecommunication services
licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).

(5)

“Structure” is defined in Article 14 of Appendix A, Zoning.
(i)

"Cook County structure" includes any structure, tower, or building
owned or operated by Cook County or any of its agents,
departments, licensees, or agencies.

(ii)

"Public utility structure" as used in this chapter means any plant,
equipment, or property used or to be used for or in connection
with a “public utility” as defined in 220 ILCS 5/3-105, and
includes electrical transmission and antenna towers, electrical
power structures, and water towers owned by municipalities,
townships, special service districts, county or state governments.

(6)

“Wireless telecommunication facility” as used in this chapter shall be
given the same meaning as "telecommunications carrier, wireless
communication transmitting and receiving facility," which is defined in
Article 14 of Appendix A, Zoning, under "telecommunications carrier
wireless communication transmitting and receiving facility".

(7)

“Wireless telecommunications service” means a two-way voice radiolinked communications service which provides dial interconnection to a
public switched network, including but not limited to cellular telephone
service and personal communications service.”

(8)

“Wireless telecommunication tower” means any structure used for
installation of telephone transmission equipment and personal
communications systems, and includes the monopole to which an antenna
is attached. The terms "structure" and "building" as used in this chapter
are defined in Article 14 of Appendix A, Zoning. The term "public utility
structure" as used in this chapter is defined in 220 ILCS 5/3-105, and
includes electrical transmission and antenna towers, electrical power
structures, and water towers owned by municipalities, townships, special
service districts, county or state governments. “Cook County structure”
includes any structure tower or building owned or operated by Cook
County or any of its agents, departments, licensees or agencies.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 5

(b)
Installation of a wireless antenna on an existing wireless telecommunication
facility is a permitted use in all zoning districts.
(b) (c) Co-location of a new wireless telecommunication facility antenna on an
existing rooftop, public utility structure, or other existing structure, other than a wireless
telecommunication facility, shall not exceed 15 feet above the highest point of the existing
structure, unless a variance is granted.
(c) (d) All nNew wireless telecommunication towers more than 100 feet in height
above curb level must be designed and intended for co-location of at least five
telecommunications service providers and must be located at least one-half mile away from
any existing wireless telecommunication tower facility regardless of height, unless the new
wireless telecommunication towers are located on an existing forest preserve structure,
Cook County structure, or public utility structure. In addition, all nNew wireless
telecommunication towers more than 100 feet in height above curb level must be designed
and intended for co-location of at least five telecommunication antennas. New wireless
telecommunication towers co-located on an existing forest preserve, a Cook County
structure or a co-location on a public utility structure shall be exempt from the one-half
mile separation requirement.
(d) (e) New wireless telecommunication facilities shall not be installed on a
building less than 40 feet in height when located in a residential district unless a
variationnce is granted. Such variationnces shall be limited to installation of microcell and
similar technology, and be no less than a reduction on buildings that are at least to 30 feet
in height when located in a residential zoning district.
(e) (f) New wireless telecommunication facilities shall be set back from the
nearest residential lot line a minimum distance equal to the height of the new wireless
telecommunication tower except when co-location on an existing public utility structure
and unless a variationnce is granted. This requirement shall not apply to new wireless
telecommunication antennas that are being co-located on an existing public utility
structure.
(f) (g) New wireless telecommunication towers excluding the lightning rod, shall
not exceed 120 feet in height above curb level or if a co-location, extend more than 15 feet
above an existing public utility structure, when located in a residence or commercial
zoning district unless a variationnce is granted.
(g) (h) New wireless telecommunication towers excluding the lighting rod, shall
not exceed 150 feet in height above curb level or if a co-location, extend more than 15 feet
above an existing public utility structure, when located in an industrial or public zoning
district unless a variationnce is granted.
(h) (i) New wireless telecommunication facilities shall meet or exceed the
structural standards for steel antenna towers and supporting structures contained in the
current "Electronic Industries Association/Telecommunications Industries Association 222
Revision Standards".

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 6

(i) (j) New wireless telecommunication facilities proposed for forest preserve
property and/or public zoning districts must shall be located on a portion of the site
improved and used for on-site maintenance or be co-located on an existing Cook County
structure.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.
* Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on July 17, 2013.
324315

AN AMENDMENT TO COOK COUNTY CODE, APPENDIX A ZONING, ARTICLE 8,
GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTIONS 8.6, ARTICLE 9 PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT, SECTIONS. 9.5 THROUGH 9.8, ARTICLE 13, ADMINISTRATION
AND ENFORCEMENT, SECTIONS 13.3, 13.4, 13.6, 13.7 AND 13.8, AND ARTICLE
14 RULES AND DEFINITIONS (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President,
Cook County Board of Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 8, General Provisions, Section 8.6, Article 9, Planned Unit Development,
Sections 9.5 through 9.8, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.3, 13.4,
13.6, 13.7, and 13.8, and Article 14, Rules and Definitions, of the Cook County Code shall
be amended as follows:
ARTICLE 8. GENERAL PROVISIONS
8.6. - Structure height.
The following requirements qualify or supplement district regulations in this
ordinance:
8.6.1. District regulations. The height of any structure shall not exceed 125 percent of
the height of the tallest existing structure located within a one-quarter mile radius of the
property lines of the subject site. Structures located in R-7, R-8, C-2, C-4, C-7 or C-8
zoning districts shall not be used in the calculation of tallest existing structure. Property
zoned R-7, R-8, C-2, C-4, C-7 or C-8 is exempted from this provision. This provision shall
not apply if no structure exists within a one-quarter mile radius.
8.6.2. Public buildings. A public hospital or institution, a public or parochial school
and a public utility or public service building shall not exceed a height of 60 feet, provided
the building is set back from the front, rear and side lot lines a ratio of two feet for every
ten feet of building height greater than 40 feet. This height requirement shall apply in
addition to rear and side yard requirements set forth in this ordinance.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 7
8.6.3. Building appurtenances. A chimney, parapet wall, skylight, steeple, flag pole,
smokestack, cooling tower, elevator bulkhead, fire tower, monument, water tower, stack,
stage tower or scenery loft, tank, ornamental tower or spire, roof garden, recreational
facility, mechanical appurtenance or penthouse containing a mechanical appurtenance may
exceed the height limits in this ordinance and shall not be included in building height.
8.6.4. Planned unit developments. The structures in a planned unit development may
exceed the height limits established for the district in which the structures are located in
accordance with an approved planned unit development.
8.6.5. Airports.
A. Structures subject to notice under Federal Aviation Regulations shall not be
constructed until it is determined by the Federal Aviation Administration that a
structure will not be a hazard to aerial navigation. Applications for zoning
amendments, special uses, unique uses, variationsnces or planned unit
developments which involve property located within two miles of an airport shall
be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator or Bureau of Administration
Department of Building and Zoning to the Federal Aviation Administration for
review and comment. In addition, plans to construct a structure exceeding 160 feet
in height, regardless of location, shall be forwarded to the Federal Aviation
Administration for review and comment.
B. Data relating to an applicant's request to construct a structure within two miles of
an airport shall be made available to the Federal Aviation Administration by the
Department of Building and Zoning or Bureau of Administration Economic
Development.
ARTICLE 9. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
9.5. - Application for preliminary plan approval.
9.5.1. Notice of application. An applicant shall, not less than 15 days nor more than 30
days before filing an application, serve written notice, of intent to apply for a PUD by
certified mail with return receipt requested, to property owners within 250 feet of the lot
lines of the proposed PUD. The property owners receiving notice shall be those persons or
entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
developments that are located within 250 feet of the lot lines of the proposed PUD, only
the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in computing the 250
feet requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet from the subject
property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in the computation.
In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each municipality within 1½
miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local school district serving the
PUD, the fire chief of each local fire protection district serving the PUD, the township
clerk and the township highway commissioner for the district serving the PUD. Notice
shall contain the address of the subject property, a brief statement of the nature of the
application, the name and address of the applicant and a statement of the approximate date
when the applicant intends to apply. If the property owner on which notice is served cannot

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 8
be found or the mailed notice is returned, the notice requirements of this provision shall be
deemed satisfied provided the applicant made a bonafide effort to determine the owner's
address.
9.5.2. Application and supporting documents.
A. An applications for a PUD shall be submitted to the Department of Building and
ZoningBureau of Administration in such form and accompanied by such
information as required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant
shall file one original and 15 copies of the application and all supporting
documents. The applicant shall attestdisclose, and the Bureau of
AdministrationDepartment of Building and Zoning shall independently verify, that
nowhether a judicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance is
pending pertaining to the subject property.
B. Applicants shall furnishile with to the Bureau of AdministrationDepartment of
Building and Zoning a sworn affidavit containing a complete list of the names and
last known addresses of the persons served with notices pursuant to Section 9.5.1..
Applicants shall also furnish a written statement to the Bureau of Administration
certifying compliance with the notice requirements of this ordinance.
C. Applications which fail to comply with this section shall be returned by the Bureau
of Administration to applicant. The Bureau of Administration shall retain one copy
of the application and supporting documents.
D. Applications shall be accompanied by the following documentation:
1. Statement describing the character of the PUD and the manner in which it has
been designed to take advantage of the flexibility of PUD regulations and the
benefits that will accrue to the public as a result of the PUD.
2. Statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PUD.
3. Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within the proposed
PUD, with supporting documentation, and an affidavit certifying that there are
no delinquent taxes on the whole or any part of the property.
4. Development schedule indicating stages in which the proposed PUD will be
built and approximate dates for beginning and completion of each construction
stage.
5. Proposed agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the use,
maintenance, operation and improvement of the proposed PUD and any of its
common open space.
6. Statement indicating the density of uses including total number of dwelling
units per acre, number of units by type, number of buildings by type and
number of bedrooms in each building and dwelling unit type.
7. Statement detailing the type and amount of nonresidential uses including the
total amount of common open space and net amount (open space which is not
located in required yards or storm water management areas) of open space.
8. Statement identifying the type and location of service facilities and off-street
parking facilities, including total number of parking spaces and parking spaces
per sub-area.
9. Architectural plans for all primary buildings which reveal the style of the
development and the building design, floor area of building types and total

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 9
ground coverage of buildings.
10. Landscape plan prepared by a registered landscape architect depicting trees,
plant materials, grading, excavating, berming and aesthetic features.
11. School impact study estimating the number of additional students and the
financial burden the proposed PUD will have on local school districts.
12. Appraisal report prepared by an MAI appraiser demonstrating the value of the
property as zoned and the value as zoned with the proposed PUD.
13. Tax impact study estimating the tax revenue to be generated by the proposed
PUD and the estimated cost to various taxing bodies of providing necessary
services to the PUD.
14. Traffic analysis demonstrating the adequacy of the local transportation system
to handle anticipated traffic volumes generated by the proposed PUD and an
analysis of the adequacy of the PUD's internal vehicular circulation system.
15. Economic feasibility study of the proposed PUD showing the need and
feasibility of the proposed development.
16. Sediment and erosion control plan.
17. Report indicating the subsurface conditions on the proposed PUD land,
including location and result of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock
and ground water conditions, depth to ground water and location and results of
soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
18. Schedule for phased development of the proposed PUD if the PUD is not
intended to be established within one year. Upon approval, the development
plan or schedule shall be considered as a limitation and condition on the PUD.
19. Preliminary lighting plan.
20. Survey prepared by a registered landscape architect or arborist of all trees over
six inches in diameter, as measured six inches above the established grade,
indicating location, species and quality.
21. Report indicating the existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system,
including bicycle paths.
22. Site plan to scale depicting the following information:
a. Boundary lines of adjoining property within 1,000 feet of the subject
property identifying parcels by PIN number, existing land use, existing
zoning classification and comprehensive plan recommendation.
b. Location, width and purpose of easements.
c. Streets on and adjacent to the proposed PUD including street names, rightof-way widths, parking areas, existing or proposed centerline elevations,
pavement types, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, culverts, paths and bike trials.
d. Utilities on and adjacent to the proposed PUD including location, size and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers, location and size
of water mains and location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone lines and street lights.
e. Ground elevations on the proposed PUD at one-foot contours with spot
elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales
and at points of special significance.
f. Water courses, floodplains, floodways, wetlands, marshes, rock outcrops,
wooded areas, trees six inches or more in diameter, houses, accessory
buildings and other significant features.
g. Direction and gradient of ground slope of land within 1,000 feet of the
proposed PUD including embankments or retaining walls, character and
location of major buildings, railroads, power lines, towers, and other

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 10
nonresidential land uses or adverse influences, platted lands with
percentage of buildup, lot sizes and dwelling types.
h. Proposed public improvements within 1,000 feet of the proposed PUD
including highways and other major improvements planned by public
authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
i. Open space and recreational areas and facilities for public use or reserved
for the use of all property owners.
j. Location, purpose and height of all buildings and structures.
k. Name of development, site planner, north point, scale, acreage of site and
date of preparation.
l. Additional information as may be required by Cook County.
D. Applications shall be accompanied by proposed findings of fact addressing each of
the standards in Section 9.5.10. (A).
E. Applications which fail to comply with this section shall be returned by the Zoning
Administrator to applicant, and the accompanying application fee will be
reimbursed. The Zoning Administrator may retain one copy of the application and
supporting documents.
9.5.3. Certification. The Bureau of Administration shall certify that the application for
preliminary plan approval is complete and that all required documentation has been
submitted in full prior to scheduling a public hearing on the application.
9.5.4. Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners in order to be deemed complete.
9.5.4. Verification. The Department of Building and Zoning shall verify that the
application for preliminary plan approval is complete and that all required documentation
has been submitted prior to forwarding the application.
9.5.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the following disclosures by sworn affidavit,
filed at the time of the application.
A. Property.
1. Applicants of property held in a land trust shall disclose the identity of each
beneficiary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest
of each beneficiary. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
2. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest, shall disclose the name and address of
each partner or associate. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed
at the time of the application.
3. Applicants property owned by a corporation, shall disclose the name, address
and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owing five percent or
more of the corporation. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at
the time of the application.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 11
B. Applicant.
1. Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship and the name and address of the principals, and their interest in
the subject property. If the principals are not individuals, the identity of the
principals shall be disclosed in accordance with paragraph 2 below. Disclosure
shall be a statement under oath and filed at the time of the application.
2. Applicants who are a partnership or association of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage of
ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a five-percent
interest shall be disclosed. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed
at the time of the application.
3. Applicants who are corporations shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five percent or more
of the corporation. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
9.5.6. Setting hearing date.Zoning Committee of Cook County Board of
Commissioners. An application for a PUD shall be transmitted by the Bureau of
Administration to the Zoning Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
its referral back to the Bureau of Administration for processing. The Bureau of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning shall forward a copy of the complete
application and supporting documentation to the Zoning Board of Appeals which shall
thereafter set a date for public hearing. The date for public hearing shall be set to permit
sufficient time for review required in Section 9.5.7.
9.5.7. Processing applications. Upon receipt of a complete application for preliminary
plan approval, and at least 15 days before a scheduled hearing date, tThe Bureau of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning, upon receipt of an application for
preliminary plan approval from the Zoning Committee of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, shall forward a copy of the application, including the applicant’s proposed
findings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in
whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of
Planning and Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the
Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve, the Cook
County Department of Public Health and the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control that a complete application, including the applicant’s proposed findings of fact and
all supporting documentation has been submitted and is ready for review. In addition, the
Bureau of Administration shall provide notice of the availability of the application and
supporting documents, for inspection and copying to the superintendents of local school
districts, the fire chiefs of local fire protection districts, township highway commissioners,
township clerks and municipalities within 1½ miles of the proposed PUD. The application
and supporting documentation shall be forwarded to Cook County departments at least 60
days before a scheduled hearing date. Each reviewing department shall submit
recommendations and comments to the Bureau of Administration at least 307 days before
the scheduled hearing date.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 12
Cook County Each reviewing departments shall examine the application and
supporting documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:
A. Department of Planning and Development.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Economic impact.
Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.
Landscape plan.

B. Department of Building and Zoning.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Site plan review.
Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use.
Lot size.
Subdivision regulations.

C. Department of Highways.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

8.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.
Floodway and floodplain capacity and storage.
Drainage and detention requirements.
Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress, egress and access
control.
Subdivision regulations.
Drainage, utilities, road easements and dedications.
Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local fire protection agencies, and townships.
Erosion and sediment control requirements.

D. Forest Preserve District.
1. Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
2. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
3. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.
E. Department of Public Health.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
Subdivision regulations.
Swimming pools.
Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
Health and safety concerns.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 13

F. Department of Environmental Control.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Noise and odor regulations.
Soil geology and composition.
Wetland mitigation and compensation.
Discharges of effluent and particulate into the air, land and water.
Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

At least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing on the application, the Bureau of
Administration shall prepare a report for the Cook County Board of Commissioners and
the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals detailing its findings and recommendations.
The report shall address all technical aspects of the data and plans submitted and indicate
whether the plan satisfies each of the PUD standards enumerated in this ordinance. The
Cook County Department's’ recommendations and comments, as well as the Bureau of
Administration's report, shall be available to the applicant or its representative, upon
request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the hearing date. The Bureau of
Administration may, in its discretion, retain expert consultants as it deems necessary. The
applicant shall reimburse Cook County for all fees and costs associated with expert
consultants prior to consideration of the application by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
9.5.8. Notice of public hearing.
A. Time and place of a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property for which an application for preliminary plan approval has been filed in
such a way as to be plainly visible from the street or right-of-way passing the
frontage of the property. Notice posted on the property shall be maintained until
the date of hearing on a weatherproof sign that is at least three feet by four feet in
size. The sign shall have a white background and contain the word "NOTICE" in
red capital letters at least six inches high. The remaining lettering shall be in black
capital letters a minimum of three inches in height. Notice shall contain at least the
following language: "This property is the subject of a special use hearing for a
PUD before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on (date) at (time) at
(location)."
B. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certified mail, with
return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the hearing, by the Zoning Board
of Appeals to the clerk of each municipality within 1½ miles of the property for
which the PUD application has been filed. Notice shall also be sent, in the same
manner, to the clerk of the township, the superintendent of each school district and
the fire chief of the local fire protection district in which the property is located.
The applicant shall serve written notice, by certified mail with return receipt
requested, to property owners within 250 feet of the lot lines of the proposed PUD,

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 14
whose names appear on the Cook County tax records, as to the date, time and
location of the public hearing. For condominium developments that are located
within 250 feet of the lot lines of the proposed PUD, only the condominium
association shall be served with notice. The notices shall contain the same
information as the posted notice and shall also contain the legal description of the
property, the common address of the property, the name of the applicant, the
applicant's representative and a brief description of the requested PUD. In addition,
notice of all hearings shall be sent to each civic or property owners' organization
requesting notice of hearings on special uses. Failure to notify a civic or property
owners' organization, however, shall not invalidate the hearing. Supplemental or
additional notices shall be published or distributed as prescribed by Zoning Board
of Appeals' rules. All required notices shall be provided at the expense of the
applicant. Applicant shall submit proof of mailing for all required notices.
Applicants shall also file a sworn affidavit with the Department of Building and
Zoning certifying compliance with the notice requirements of this section.
C. Except as indicated in subsection B, the aApplicants shall be responsible for the
preparation of both posted and mailed notices and shall be solely responsible for
adequacy and accuracy of the information. The applicant shall also be responsible
for placing and maintaining posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records
of written notices. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
responsible for assuring that notice by newspaper publication, at the expense of the
applicant, is given.
9.5.9. Hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at least one a public hearing
for a proposed PUD in the township in which the property is located. At the hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall make the report from the Bureau of Administration a part
of the record. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Article 13 of this
ordinance and the Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. An authorized representative of any
Cook County department that provided comments on the application and/or the Bureau of
Administration shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
The hearing shall take place at the Cook County Administration Building unless the
Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the County Building has more
adequate facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings, examinations, and other
official actions shall be preserved in the manner prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals'
rules. If there is a judicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance
involving the subject property, the applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall the
Zoning Board of Appeals grant, more than one continuance. The hearing shall be
transcribed by a court reporter of the applicant’s choosing. Failure of the applicant to
provide a transcript of the hearing(s) within 30 days following the hearing shall void the
application. The deadline to submit a transcript may be extended by the Zoning Board of
Appeals once, for a maximum of 30 additional days.
9.5.10. Standards and findings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
A. Applicants for PUD approval shall satisfy the following standards:
1. PUD conforms with the planning objectives, policies and maps of the County
as specified in the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 15
2. PUD is of a type and character and contains uses that are needed in the area.
3. PUD is designed and laid out to preserve environmentally sensitive areas,
natural resources, habitat and topographic features to the fullest extent
possible.
4. PUD is designed in conformity with the provisions of the Cook County
Subdivision Manual or any successor subdivision document.
5. PUD is designed to provide horizontal spacing between buildings which takes
into consideration the purpose and objectives of this article.
6. PUD complies with the industrial performance standards enumerated in Article
6 of this ordinance if the PUD contains industrial uses.
7. PUD complies with the parking requirements enumerated in Article 11 of this
ordinance.
8. PUD provides appropriate yards, setbacks and buffers between the PUD and
adjacent zoning lots. The applicant shall specifically request, in writing, any
variationnce from the required setbacks.
9. PUD has adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities.
10. PUD has ingress and egress designed to minimize traffic congestion in public
streets.
11. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not be detrimental to or endanger
public health, safety or general welfare.
12. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the uses already
permitted, nor diminish and impair property values within the surrounding
area.
13. PUD and its maintenance and operation will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property.
14. PUD shall provide more open space than would be required in a standard
subdivision.
15. PUD shall be designed to connect to existing or planned pedestrian and bicycle
systems in the vicinity.
B. Applicants shall, within 30 days after the public hearing, prepare and submit to the
Zoning Board of Appeals one original and 15 copies of proposed findings of fact
addressing each of the above standards. The applicant may seek, and the Zoning
Board of Appeals may grant for good cause shown, one 30-day extension of time
for the applicant to submit findings of fact. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall,
within seven days of receiving the applicant's proposed findings of fact, forward
the proposed findings of fact to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district
the property is located, the Cook County Department of Planning and
Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook
County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Health Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control, municipalities located within 1½ miles of the subject property and local
school and fire protection districts. Any interested party, upon written request to
the Zoning Board of Appeals, may review the applicant's proposed findings of
fact. County departments, municipalities and other interested persons shall have 30
days from receiving the applicant's proposed findings of fact to file a written
response with the Zoning Board of Appeals.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 16
C. Recommendations and comments of the Cook County Department of Planning and
Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook
County Department of Highways, Cook County Forest Preserve District, the Cook
County Health Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control, municipalities located within 1½ miles of the subject property and local
school and fire protection districts shall be considered and addressed in writing by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in its findings and recommendations. The Secretary
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward the findings of fact and
recommendations to be forwarded to the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
D. Written findings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 6090 days after receipt of
the applicant's proposed findings of fact on the PUDthe hearing and shall be
submitted to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Recommendations and
comments of the Cook County Department of Planning and Development, the
Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department
of Highways, Cook County Forest Preserve District, the Cook County Health
Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental Control,
municipalities located within 1½ miles of the subject property and local school and
fire protection districts shall be considered and addressed in writing by the Zoning
Board of Appeals in its findings and recommendations. The findings and
recommendations shall include a statement indicating the extent to which the
proposed PUD departs from zoning, subdivision and other regulations applicable
to the property and the reasons why a departure is or is not in the public interest.
The 6090-day period may be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals once, for
no more thana maximum of 930 additional days if the Zoning Board of Appeals
granted an extension pursuant to this article. Failure of the applicant to provide a
transcript of the hearing(s) within 60 days following the hearing shall void the
application.
E. Recommendation for approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall not be made by
the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written findings of fact that the
proposed use satisfies each of the PUD standards and is in the best interest of the
public. In all cases the Zoning Board of Appeals' recommendations to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners are advisory only.
F. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend; the imposition of conditions and
restrictions upon preliminary plan approval; variancedeparture from the general
provisions, regulations and standards of this article; and/or variancedeparture from
any of the applicable district regulations when it deems a departure is in the public
interest. In all cases, the Zoning Board of Appeals’ recommendations to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners are advisory only.
9.5.11. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
A. The Cook County Board of Commissioners may approve or deny, by motion, an
application for preliminary plan approval. Failure of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to take action within 60 days of receiving the Zoning Board of
Appeals' findings and recommendations shall operate as a denial of an application
for preliminary plan approval. The 60-day period may be extended if a request for
an extension is made by the applicant or by a Cook County Board Commissioner

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 17
and is granted by the Board of Commissioners.
B. The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the authority to: impose conditions
and restrictions upon preliminary plan approval; depart from the general
provisions, regulations and standards of this article; and/or depart from any
ofdepart from strict conformance with the requirements and standards enumerated
in this article; vary the applicable district regulations; and impose conditions and
restrictions upon the PUD application when it deems a departure is in the public
interest.
C. Applications for preliminary plan approval shall be approved by a favorable vote
of three-quarters of all members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in
cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals has not recommended adoption at a
proposed PUD or when a written protest against the proposed PUD has been
received in accordance with Article 13.
D. Approval of the preliminary plan and satisfaction of any conditions and restrictions
imposed by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be conditions
precedent to submission of an application for PUD ordinance.
9.6. - Final Plan Approval.
9.6.1. Application and supporting documents. The applicant shall, within one year
from the date of preliminary plan approval, submit an application for PUD ordinance to the
Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall submit
one original and 15 copies of the application and the following supporting documents:
A. Final PUD plat, suitable for recording with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds,
which includes the following information:
1. Designation of lots and the division of all other property, including common
open areas and building sites. If property within a final plat is to be
subdivided, a subdivision plat is also required.
2. Final site plans including legal description of all lots and each separate,
unsubdivided area, including common open space, within the PUD.
3. Exact location of all buildings, structures, streets, drives, parking lots,
sidewalks, drainage and utility easements, detention easements and
conservation easements, landscaping and other proposed site improvements.
4. Final architectural plans setting forth the type and style of construction and
materials to be used in proposed buildings, including the height and area of
each building.
5. Certificates, seals and signatures necessary for dedicating property and
recording the final plat.
6. Tabulation of separate unsubdivided use area, land area, number of buildings,
number of dwelling units and dwelling units per acre.
7. Final landscape architectural plans and specifications.
8. Final lighting plans and specifications.
9. Signage plans.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 18
B. Common open space documents which verify that common open space will be
permanently preserved and streets, walkways and common spaces will be
maintained and repaired in perpetuity. Common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, to a not-for-profit corporation or
entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and residents or retained
by the applicant with legally binding guarantees providing for perpetual
maintenance, operation, improvements and repairs. All property conveyed to a notfor-profit corporation, or like entity, shall be subject to the right of the corporation
or entity to impose a legally enforceable lien on all property within the PUD for
maintenance and improvement of the common open space.
C. Final construction engineering plans, signed and sealed by an Illinois licensed
professional engineer, for public facilities and improvements approved by the
Cook County Highway Department. Public facilities and improvements shall be
constructed upon approval of the PUD ordinance and a construction performance
bond shall be posted to guarantee construction of required infrastructure. The
performance bond shall be payable to Cook County and be sufficient to cover the
full cost of the facilities and improvements plus 15 percent.
D. Detailed plans signed and sealed by an Illinois licensed professional engineer for
the construction and installation of site amenities, including buildings, lakes and
other site improvements.
E. Final construction schedule which shall include the projected completion date of
the entire project and completion dates of any intermediate phases of the
development.
F. Statement indicating current ownership of the property and information regarding
intent to sell all or portions of the development.
G. Detailed plans depicting the size and location of dedicated parkland and school
sites or the amount of any cash contribution to the local park and school district.
H. Proof from the Cook County Clerk's Office in the [event] that no delinquent taxes
exist on any portion of the property.
I.

Final agreements, provisions or covenants which will govern the perpetual
maintenance, operation and improvements of the PUD. These documents shall be
recorded at the same time as the final PUD plat.

9.6.2. Fee. An application for PUD ordinance shall be accompanied by a fee
established by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
9.6.3. Department reviews. The Bureau of Administration Zoning Board of Appeals
shall forward one copy of the application for PUD ordinance, plat and supporting
documents to the Cook County Commissioner in whose district the property is located, the
Cook County Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Zoning Board
of Appeals, the Cook County Department of Highways, the Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Department of Public Health, the Cook County Department of

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 19
Environmental Control and the Cook County Plat Officer for certification that the PUD,
plat and supporting documents are in substantial conformance with the approved
preliminary plan and other sections of this ordinance. The departments shall have 307 days
from receipt of the application for PUD ordinance to furnish the Bureau of Administration
Zoning Board of Appeals with their written comments. Upon receipt of the comments from
the departments, the Bureau of Administration Zoning Board of Appeals shall make them
available to the applicant or its representative upon request, and allow the applicant or its
representative to submit a response within 15 days. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall ,
within 30 days, certify whether the application for final plan approval and supporting
documents are in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plans and shall
provide a recommendation to approve or deny the application to the Zoning Committee of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners within 30 days after receiving the comments
from the departments. The applicant or its representative may, within the same 30-day
period, review the various Cook County department comments and submit a response to
the Bureau of Administration.
9.6.4. Preparation of ordinance. The Bureau of Administration Zoning Board of
Appeals shall, when all conditions and procedures have been satisfied, prepare the PUD
ordinance which shall address the standards of this article and any conditions imposed on
the PUD. If a map amendment is recommended in connection with the PUD, the Bureau of
Administration Zoning Board of Appeals shall include a separate section in the PUD
ordinance which shall address the map amendment standards contained in Article 13 and
any conditions to be imposed on the map amendment. The Bureau of Administration
Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward the proposed PUD ordinance to the Zoning
Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
9.6.5. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The Cook County Board of
Commissioners may approve or deny the proposed PUD ordinance. The failure of the
Cook County Board to take action within 60 days of receiving the proposed ordinance
from the Bureau of Administration Zoning Board of Appeals shall operate as a denial. The
60-day period may be extended if a request for an extension is made by the applicant or a
Cook County Board Commissioner and is granted by the Board of Commissioners. A
favorable vote of three-quarters of all members of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners shall be required when a written protest to the application for preliminary
plan was filed pursuant to Article 13.
9.6.6. Conditions and restrictions. The Cook County Board of Commissioners may, by
ordinance, impose conditions and restrictions on a PUD to assure compliance with the
standards and requirements of this ordinance. In addition, the Cook County Board may
require evidence and guarantees to ensure that the applicant complies with the conditions
of the PUD. Failure of the applicant to comply with conditions or restrictions shall
constitute a violation of this ordinance.
9.6.7. Recordation. The applicant, upon adoption of a PUD ordinance, shall record the
PUD plat, common open space documents, dedications, agreements, provisions or
covenants with the Cook County Recorder of Deeds. Recording the PUD plat and
supporting documents shall constitute notice of the restrictions placed upon the property
and act as a zoning control device.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 20
9.6.8. Building permits. The Department of Building and Zoning may not issue
building permits until the PUD plat and supporting documents have been recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds. The applicant shall present proof of recording to the Cook
County Department of Building and Zoning. Construction authorized by a building permit
shall be in full conformance with the recorded PUD plat. Failure of the applicant to
develop and construct the PUD according to the PUD ordinance shall constitute a violation
of the zoning ordinance.
9.7. - Changes in an approved PUD.
A change to an approved PUD shall be made as follows:
9.7.1. Major and minor changes.
A. Changes to the PUD which alter the concept, intent, standards or conditions of the
PUD established by the preliminary plan, and/or the PUD ordinance, shall be
construed by the Zoning Board of Appeals as a major modification necessitating
reconsideration of the PUD. Where a major modification is sought, the applicant
shall make application to the Bureau of Administration Department of Building
and Zoning for an amendment to the preliminary plan and/or PUD ordinance. The
application shall be processed in accordance with the procedures established for
review and approval of the preliminary plan. The documentation required to be
submitted by the applicant shall be sufficient to provide for review of the proposed
amendment. The Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning
shall be authorized to determine the sufficiency of the documentation submitted in
support of the proposed amendment and to require such additional documentation
deemed necessary to review the application for amendment. The amendment to the
preliminary plan and/or PUD ordinance shall otherwise be processed as an original
application subject to all notices, reviews, hearings and approvals required by this
article.
1. A major change to an approved PUD is a change to the approved site plan and
supporting maps and materials that altersresults in any of the following
elements:
a. An increase in density for any phase of the development or for the
entire development.;
b. An increase in the approved floor area ratio.;
c. A reduction in the approved landscape material in quantity or in size
of material.;
d. An increase in building height.;
e. A change in the type of dwelling unit.;
f. A reduction in the amount of open space or a change in the location of
the open space.; or
g. Any change in the approved site plan which results in moving a
building more than 20 feet.
2. All other changes shall be construed as minor changes and shall be reviewed
and approved by the Bureau of Administration Department of Building and
Zoning.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 21

B. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall make a recommendation to the Zoning and
Building Committee of the County Board regarding whether a plan with a major
change shall be approved or denied, with final approval by the Board of
Commissioners.
C. Changes to the approved phasing schedule:
1. In the event the petitioner/developer anticipates a time delay in meeting the
completion date for any or all of the phases of the planned unit development,
the applicant may file a written request to the Chairman of the Committee on
Zoning and Building of the Cook County Board of Commissioners at least 20
days prior to the expiration of said completion date.
2. The Zoning and Building Committee will review and may recommend to the
President and Board of Commissioners an extension of said completion date
for any length of time as deemed justifiable by the President and Board of
Commissioners.
3. Should an approved PUD fail to meet any portion of its improvement/phasing
schedule, the Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning
shall review the circumstances and recommend one of the following actions to
the Committee on Zoning and Building of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, with final approval by the Board of Commissioners:
a. That theThe use for the entire area be continued with a revised time
schedule;
b. That theThe PUD be revoked and the property be appropriately
rezoned; or
c. That aA new public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals be
scheduled on the PUD in accordance with the procedures for
preliminary PUD approval.
9.8. - Reversion and extension.
9.8.1. Reversion. For purposes of this section, issuance of a building permit for any
phase of development shall establish the PUD. The applicant's failure to apply for a
building permit within one year of adoption of the PUD ordinance shall, without further
action, cause the PUD ordinance to be null and void. With respect to a map amendment
approved in conjunction with a PUD ordinance, the applicant’s failure to apply for a
building permit within one year of adoption of the PUD ordinance shall, without further
action, cause the the map amendment shallto be null and void and the property shall to
revert to its zoning classification immediately prior to the PUD application.
9.8.2. Extension. The applicant may apply for an extension of the one-year application
period prescribed in Sections 9.6.1 and 9.8.1. The applicant is limited to one 12-month
extension under each section. An application for extension shall be filed with the Bureau of
Administration Department of Building and Zoning before the expiration of the applicable
time period and shall be accompanied by a fee established by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. The Bureau of Administration Department of Building and Zoning may
recommend, and the Cook County Board of Commissioners may approve, the application

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 22
for an extension for good cause shown. Failure to apply for an extension in the time
prescribed shall render the application null and void.
ARTICLE 13. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
13.3. - Zoning Board of Appeals.
13.3.1. Membership. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall be composed of seven
members: five voting members who shall be appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and two ex-officio, nonvoting members, consisting of the Chairman of the
Building and Zoning and Building Committee of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners and the Chief Administrative Officer Chief of the Bureau of Economic
Development of Cook County. Ex-officio members may be represented by a designee at
any hearing or meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals. As of June 1, 2013, voting
members shall receive compensation of $500.00 per official meeting of the Zoning Board
of Appeals where the member participates in person or by viewing a record of proceeding
where action is required not to exceed $12,000.00, with no other fringe or pension benefits,
and an allowance for expenses as provided by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
in its annual appropriation Ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall report the
number of official meetings it has conducted on a quarterly basis to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners. Members of the Zoning Board of Appeals serving at the time of
adoption of this ordinance shall serve for the remaining term of their appointments, or until
their respective successors are appointed. All new and renewed terms of office for Zoning
Board of Appeals members shall be for five years.
One of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be designated by the
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners as Chairman of the Zoning Board of Appeals, and
shall hold office until a successor is appointed. The President of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
shall have the power to remove for cause any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled by appointment of the President
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners for the unexpired term of the member whose position has
become vacant.
13.3.2. Jurisdiction. The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority:
A. Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Department of Building and Zoning under this ordinance.
B. Hear and make recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners on
applications for authorized variationsnces, on variationsnces from any quantitative
requirement of this ordinance, and for all applications referred by the Department
of Building and Zoning or the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 23
C. Hear applications for special uses, planned unit developments, map amendments
and unique uses as set forth in this ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
report its findings and recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
D. Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
map amendments to this ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.
E. Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
text amendments to this ordinance and make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners.
F. Conduct hearings at the request of the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
amendments to the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies Plan and
make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
G. Initiate, direct and review studies of this ordinance and make recommendations to
the Zoning and Building Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
H. Hear and decide matters as set forth in this ordinance and matters referred to it by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
I.

Duties as the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall by ordinance, resolution
or direction provide.

13.3.3. Meetings and rules. The meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held
at the call of the Chairman at such times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine.
Hearings conducted by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be considered public meetings
under the Illinois Open Meetings Act and shall be held in conformance with the Illinois
Open Meetings Act. Ex-officio members, or their designees, may fully participate in
meetings, but shall not vote on any matters before the Zoning Board of Appeals. For
purposes of conducting a public meeting, a quorum of four members shall be present in
person at the meeting, and two of the four members present may be ex-officio members or
their designees. For purposes of conducting a vote at a public meeting, three voting
members must be present in person at the meeting. Any person may appear and testify at a
hearing. The Chairman or Acting Chairman may administer oaths and subpoena witnesses.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question. If any voting member is absent or fails to vote, that shall
be reflected in the minutes. Zoning Board of Appeals voting members may not vote by
proxy. Records shall be kept of all hearings and other official actions of the Zoning Board
of Appeals. Applications, exhibits and all documents filed by applicants, as well as
transcripts of hearings if provided, meetings, testimony and deliberations, shall constitute
the record of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be the keeper of the records. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules
and procedures, not in conflict with this ordinance or with applicable State of Illinois
Statutes, and may select or appoint such officers as it deems necessary. A copy of every
rule, regulation, amendment, order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be filed immediately with the Department of Building and Zoning
and shall be a public record.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 24
13.3.4. Decisions. The decisions and findings of the Zoning Board of Appeals, except
as provided in 13.3.5, shall be final administrative decisions and shall be subject to review
as provided by law.
13.3.5. Appeals from decisions of the Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from an administrative
order, requirement or determination of the Department of Building and Zoning under this
ordinance.
An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by any person or entity or by
any officer, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a decision of the Department of
Building and Zoning under this ordinance. An appeal shall be taken within 35 days after
the date of the Department of Building and Zoning's decision by filing with the Zoning
Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
for the appeal. Notice of appeal shall be given to all persons or entities entitled to receive
notice as provided by Section 13.7.3.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall select a reasonable time and place for hearing an
appeal and give notice to the aggrieved person or entity and the Department of Building
and Zoning. The hearing shall take place within 30 days after the Zoning Board of Appeals
receives notice of appeal.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall render a written decision on the appeal within 30
days after the hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward its decision to all
parties of record. The Zoning Board of Appeals may affirm, reverse, wholly or in part, or
modify a decision of the Department of Building and Zoning. A written decision of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall contain findings of fact which support its decision. If the
Zoning Board of Appeals affirms the decision of the Department of Building and Zoning,
the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals is a final administrative determination and
shall be subject to review as provided by law.
If the Zoning Board of Appeals reverses the decision of the Department of Building
and Zoning, the Department of Building and Zoning has the right to appeal the Zoning
Board of Appeals' decision to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The matter shall
be heard upon the record of the Zoning and Building Committee, or a subcommittee,
("Committee") of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. No additional testimony
shall be taken and no additional documents shall be filed. The Committee shall provide
notice of its hearing of an appeal as provided in this section. The Committee may affirm,
reverse, wholly or in part, or modify the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
If the Committee reverses the Zoning Board of Appeals, the decision of the Committee
shall be a final administrative determination and shall be subject to review as provided by
law. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall maintain complete records of all
actions relative to appeals.
13.3.6. Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
A. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the President
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 25

B. Duties of the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be as follows:
1. Maintain records of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
2. Forward to the County Board of Commissioners final findings of fact and
recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals for map amendments and
special uses and such other matters under this ordinance which require
consideration or action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
3. Administer duties which may be delegated to the Secretary by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners and the Zoning Board of Appeals.
13.4. – Building permits/zoning certificates.
13.4.1. Application. An application for a building permit shall be deemed an
application for a zoning certificate. An application shall be accompanied by the following:
A. Plat of survey, in triplicate, drawn to scale and showing actual dimensions of lots
and blocks, as required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The plat shall
be dated within the prior six-monthfive year period and it shall be certified by a
land surveyor licensed by the State of Illinois as a true copy of the property
according to the registered or recorded plat of subdivision.
B. Site plan signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer in the State of
Illinois, in triplicate, drawn to scale in such form as may be prescribed by the
Department of Building and Zoning. The site plan shall show the ground area,
height and bulk of the building or structure, building lines in relation to lot lines,
use to be made of the building, structure or land and such other information as may
be required by the Department of Building and Zoning.
13.4.2. Procedure. A copy of each plat of survey and site plan shall be attached to the
application for a building permit when it is submitted to the Department of Building and
Zoning for zoning certification. The Department of Building and Zoning shall retain the
application, attached plats and plans as public records.
13.6. – Variationsnces.
13.6.1. Purpose. In order to provide a streamlined approval process for minor
modifications of selected zoning standards, the Zoning Administrator is hereby given the
authority to review and approve applications for variances of ten percent or less of the
regulations as to location of structures or as to bulk requirements without referral to the
Zoning Board of Appeals and without a public hearing in accordance with this ordinance.
The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, shall recommend to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to grant or deny all other authorized variationsnces under this
ordinance. In making a recommendation to grant a variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall make findings of fact in accordance with standards prescribed in this ordinance for
variationsnces, and shall also find that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships
which prevent the applicant from strictly following regulations of this ordinance.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 26
13.6.2. Application, hearing, and notice of hearing.
A. An application for a variationnce shall be filed in triplicate with, and shall contain
such information as required by, the Department of Building and Zoning.
Electronic submission of application and supporting documents shall be
encouraged. Applications for sign variances will also require the submittal of one
detailed, signed and sealed architectural drawing of the proposed sign and a
detailed sketch and/or rendering of the sign. In addition, the applicant shall file a
sworn affidavit containing a complete list of the names and last known addresses
of the owners of properties on lots lying within 150 feet of the property lines of the
lot for which the variance is sought with his or her variance application, whose
names appear on the Cook County tax records. Only the name and last known
address of the condominium association shall be required for condominium
developments that are located within 150 feet from the subject property. The
Zoning Administrator shall reject applications for variationsnces which do not
comply with the provisions of this ordinance. Applications for sign variances will
also require the submittal of one detailed, signed and sealed architectural drawing
of the proposed sign and a detailed sketch and/or rendering of the sign. A copy of
each application for variance which complies with the provisions of this ordinance
shall be forwarded by tThe Department of Building and Zoning shall forward one
copy of the application to the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose district
the property is located. The application shall contain such information as required
by the rules of the Department of Building and Zoning.
B. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at least one a public hearing on each
application for a variance, except those which the Zoning Administrator intends to
grant pursuant to Section 13.6.9 of this article. An authorized representative of
any County department that provided comment on the application shall testify at
the hearing if requested by the Zoning Board of Appeals. The hearing shall take
place at the Cook County Administration Building unless the Secretary of the
Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the County Building has more adequate
facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings, examinations, and other
official actions shall be preserved in the manner prescribed by Zoning Board of
Appeals' rules. However, the hearing will not be transcribed by a court reporter
unless requested by the Zoning Board of Appeals or another interested party, and
in that case the cost of the transcription must be borne by the person requesting it.
If there is a judicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance
involving the subject property, the applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall
the Zoning Board of Appeals grant, more than one continuance.
C. Notice of the time and place of a public hearing for all variance applications,
except those which the Zoning Administrator intends to grant pursuant to Section
13.6.9 of this article, shall be published by the Zoning Board of Appealsat least
once, not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days, before the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in Cook County. The published notice may be
supplemented by additional notice as required by the rules of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. In addition, written notice of public hearings, including the reference
number assigned by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and the place, date, and time of

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 27
the hearing shall be given not less than seven days or more than 45 days before the
hearing, by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall beas follows: A.. Notices shall be
given to the clerk of each municipality within 1½ miles of the subject property
current real estate tax assessees, as shown on the records of the County Tax
Collector, and to all persons whose names are listed on mailboxes, doorbells or
signs on lots lying within 150 feet of the property lines of the lot for which the
variationnce is sought in the sworn affidavit filed by the applicant with his or her
variance application. When a condominium development is within 150 feet of the
subject property, nNotice need only be sent to the condominium association of
condominium developments that are located within 150 feet from the subject
property. In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each
municipality within 1½ miles of the subject property. B. Notices should be in
writing and shall give the variation number assigned by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, the place, date and time of the hearing and shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 45 days before the hearing. The applicant shall file a
sworn affidavit containing a complete list of the names and last known addresses
of the owners of the properties and other entities required to be served, The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall maintain a record of the method of service, and the names
and last known addresses of the persons served with copies of the notice. The
affidavit shall create a presumption that notice was given as required.
13.6.3. Standards. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend to the Board of
Commissioners that it grant or deny a variance, unless the Zoning Board of Appeals first
makes written findings of fact on each of the following standards based upon evidence
presented:
A. Physical surroundings, shape or topographical condition of the property would
result in hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if
the provisions of this ordinance were followed.
B. Conditions which are unique to the property exist and are not applicable to other
properties within the same zoning classification.
C. Variationce sought is not based exclusively upon a desire to make the property
more profitable.
D. Hardship or alleged difficulty is caused by this ordinance and not by any person
presently having an interest in the property.
E. Variationce will not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
properties or improvements in the neighborhood.
F. Variationce will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
properties, substantially increase congestion in the public streets, increase the
danger of fire, cause increased flooding risk to adjacent property, endanger public
safety or substantially diminish or impair property values within adjacent
neighborhoods.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 28
13.6.4. Conditions and restrictions. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend to
the Board of Commissioners such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited
by a variationce as may be necessary to reduce or minimize the effect of the variationce
upon other properties in the neighborhood and to better carry out the general intent of this
ordinance. Failure of the applicant to comply with conditions and restrictions imposed
shall constitute a violation of this ordinance.
13.6.5. Authorized variationsnces. A variationnce from the regulations of this
ordinance may be granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners only in the
following instances and in accordance with standards set forth in this ordinance:
A. Permit a yard or setback less than the yard or setback required by this ordinance.
B. Permit the use of a lot or lots for a use which is otherwise prohibited solely
because of the insufficient area or width of the lot or lots. The Cook County Board
of Commissioners shall not grant a variationnce which results in the division of a
conforming lot or lots into two or more any nonconforming lots. The Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall not allow a lot less than 40,000 square feet to be
used for an individual septic system and water supply system, unless the Cook
County Department of Public Health has approved the systems.
C. Permit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as a facility for two or more
uses, provided the substantial use of the facility by each user does not take place at
the same hours of the same days of the week.
D. Reduce required off-street parking or off-street loading facilities.
E. Increase the maximum distance that required parking spaces are permitted to be
located from the use served.
F. Increase dimensions or square footage of signs as provided in Article 12 and
Ordinance No. 02-O-05.
G. Increase the maximum gross floor area of any use required by this ordinance.
H. Grant variationsnces for property located in a floodplain in accordance with the
Floodplain Ordinance for Cook County, Illinois.
I.

Reduce lot size when property has been diminished in size by eminent domain or
by a conveyance in lieu of an eminent domain proceeding.

J. Grant height variationsnces for freestanding cellular tower facilities as provided in
Ordinance No. 01-O-32. No height variationnce for a cellular radio facility which
is attached to or installed on a building shall be allowed.
K. Grant height variationsnces for fences.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 29
13.6.6. Recommending variationsnces. A majority vote of three of the five voting
members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to recommend to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners to grant or deny a variationnce. No decision of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners granting a variationnce shall be valid for more than one year,
unless a building permit is obtained and construction of the building or the use
commenced.
13.6.7. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
A. Final action shall not be taken by the Cook County Board of Commissioners on an
application for a variationnce until the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings of fact
and recommendations have been received.
B. Variationsnces shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all
members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning
Board of Appeals has not recommended approval of a proposed variationnce or
where there has been a written protest filed against a proposed variationnce in
accordance with Section 13.13 of this ordinance.
C. Applications for variationnces shall be deemed denied if the Cook County Board
of Commissioners has not taken final action within 60 days of receiving the
Zoning Board of Appeals' findings and recommendations. The 60-day period may
be extended if a request for an extension is made by the applicant.
D. The Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose conditions and
restrictions upon a variationnce in order to assure that the public health, safety and
welfare is adequately protected.
13.6.8. Effect of denial. An application for a variationnce which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date of the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
13.6.9. Administrative Adjustments. An application for a variance of ten percent or less
of the regulations as to location of structures or as to bulk requirements may be granted by
the Zoning Administrator without referral to the Zoning Board of Appeals and without a
public hearing provided that:

A. The Zoning Administrator has not granted an application for variance of ten
percent or less of the regulations as to location of the same or similar structure or
bulk requirements submitted by the same applicant in the past 5 years from the
date of application;
B. Proof of compliance with the notice requirements to owners of the adjoining
properties is submitted by the applicant, in accordance with the rules of the
Department of Building and Zoning;

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 30
C. No objection is submitted by the owners of the adjoining properties, in accordance
with the rules of the Department of Building and Zoning;
D. The Zoning Administrator finds that the variance sought eliminates an unnecessary
inconvenience to the applicant and will have no appreciable adverse impact on the
health, safety, or general welfare of adjoining property owners or the general
public;
E. A copy of the application is forwarded to the Cook County Board Commissioner
in whose district the property is located with a notice of intent to grant the variance
without referral to the Zoning Board of Appeals and without a public hearing; and
F. No objection is submitted by the Cook County Board Commissioner in whose
district the property is located within 14 days of the date of the notice of intent to
grant the variance.
If any of the above conditions are not met, the Zoning Administrator shall refer the
application for variance to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
In granting an application for a variance of ten percent or less of the regulations as to
location of structures or as to bulk requirements, the Zoning Administrator may impose
conditions and restrictions upon a variance sought under this Section in order to assure that
the public health, safety and welfare is adequately protected. No decision of the Zoning
Administrator granting a variance shall be valid for more than one year, unless a building
permit is obtained and construction of the building or the use commenced.
13.7. - Map amendments.
13.7.1. Authority. The districts established by this ordinance may be amended by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. No map amendment shall be made without
consideration of existing conditions, property values, trends of development and uses to
which property is devoted.
13.7.2. Initiation. A map amendment may be proposed by the President or a member
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners or by any person or entity having an interest
in the subject property. A map amendment shall be initiated as provided in this article.
13.7.3. Notice of application. An applicant shall, not less than 15 days nor more than
30 days before filing an application, serve written notice, of intent to apply for a map
amendment by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners within
250 feet of the lot lines of the subject property,. The property owners receiving notice shall
be those persons or entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For
condominium developments that are located within 250 feel of the lot line of the subject
property, only the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of
feet occupied by public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
computing the 250 feet requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet
from the subject property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in
the computation. In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each
municipality within 1½ miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 31
school district, the fire chief of each local fire protection district, the township clerk and
township highway commissioner. When the applicant is either the President of a member
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, notice shall be served in accordance with
this section, by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Notice shall contain the address of the
subject property, a brief statement of the nature of the application, the name and address of
the applicant and a statement of the approximate date when the applicant intends to apply.
If the property owner on which notice is served cannot be found, or the mailed notice is
returned, the notice requirements of this provision shall be deemed satisfied provided the
applicant made a bonafide effort to determine the owner's address.
13.7.4. Application.
A. An aApplications for a map amendment shall be submitted to the Department of
Building and Zoning in such form and accompanied by such information as
required by the Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall file one
original and 15 copies of the application and all supporting documents. The
applicant shall include a written statement and evidence establishing that the
proposed map amendment will conform to the standards set forth in this article.
The applicant shall attestdisclose, and the Department of Building and Zoning
shall independently verify, that nowhether a judicial proceeding for a violation of
any Cook County ordinance is pending pertaining to the subject property.
B. Applicants shall furnish to ile with the Department of Building and Zoning a
sworn affidavit containing a complete list of the names and last known addresses
of the persons to be served with notice pursuant to 13.7.3.. Applicant(s) shall also
furnish a written statement to the Department of Building and Zoning certifying
compliance with the notice requirements of this ordinance.
C. Notices, as set forth in this article, shall be served by the Secretary of the Zoning
Board of Appeals when the applicant is either the President or a member of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. Notice shall be served not less than 15
days nor more than 30 days before a scheduled public hearing.
D. Applications shall be accompanied by proposed findings of fact addressing each of
the standards in Section 13.7.9. (A).
E. Applications which fail to comply with this Section shall be returned by the Zoning
Administrator to the applicant, and the accompanying application fee will be
reimbursed. The Zoning Administrator mayshall retain one copy of the application
and supporting documents.
13.7.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the following disclosures by sworn affidavit,
filed at the time of the application.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 32
A. Property.
1. Applicants of property held in a land trust, shall disclose the identity of each
beneficiary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest
of each beneficiary. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
2. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest shall disclose the name and address of each
partner or associate shall be listed. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath
and filed at the time of the application.
3. Applicants of property owned by a corporation shall disclose the name,
address and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five
percent or more of the corporation shall be disclosed. Disclosure shall be a
statement under oath and filed at the time of the application.
B. Applicant.
1. Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship shall be disclosed and the name and address of the principals and
their interest in the subject property. If the principals are not individuals, the
identity of the principals shall be disclosed as set forth. Disclosure shall be a
statement under oath and filed at the time of the application.
2. Applicants who are either the President or a member of the Cook County
Board Commissioners shall disclose any ownership interest in the property or
any direct or indirect interest in the property and the nature of the interest.
Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the time of the
application.
3. Applicants who are a partnerships or associations of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage of
ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a five-percent
interest Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the time of the
application.
4. Applicants who are a corporation shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five percent or more
of the corporation. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
C. Applications which fail to comply with this Section shall be returned by the
Zoning Administrator to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall retain one
copy of the application and supporting documents.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 33
13.7.6. Processing applications.
Upon receipt of a complete application for map amendment, and at least 15 days
before a scheduled hearing date, tThe Zoning Board of AppealsDepartment of Building
and Zoning shall forward a copy of the application, including the applicant’s proposed
findings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County Commissioner in
whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County Department of
Planning and Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the
Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control that a complete application, including the applicant’s proposed
findings of fact and all supporting documentation has been submitted and is ready for
review at least 30 days before a scheduled hearing date. Each reviewing department shall
submit recommendations and comments to the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
at least threeseven days before the scheduled hearing date. In addition, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall provide notice of the availability of the application and supporting
documents for inspection and copying to the superintendents of local school districts, the
fire chiefs of local fire protection districts, the township highway commissioner, the
township clerk and municipalities within 1½ miles from the subject property.
Each reviewing department shall examine the application and supporting
documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:
A. Department of Planning and Development.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Economic impact.
Community need.
Trend of development.
Demographics.
Property values.

B. Department of Building and Zoning.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Site plan review.
Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use.
Lot size.
Subdivision regulations.

C. Department of Highways.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Wetland mitigation and compensation.
Floodway and floodplain capacity and storage.
Drainage detention requirements.
Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress, egress and access
control.
5. Subdivision regulations.
6. Drainage, utilities, road easements and dedications.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 34
7. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local fire protection agencies and townships.
8. Erosion and sediment control requirements.
D. Forest Preserve Districts.
1. Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
2. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
3. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.
E. Department of Public Health.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
Subdivision regulations.
Swimming pools.
Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
Health and safety concerns.

F. Department of Environmental Control.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Noise and odor regulations.
Soil geology and composition.
Wetland mitigation and compensation.
Discharges of effluent and particulate into the air, land and water.
Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.

The Cook County departments’ recommendations and comments shall be available to the
applicant or its representative, upon request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the
hearing date.
13.7.7. Notice of public hearing.
A. Time and place of a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property proposed to be rezoned in such a way as to be plainly visible from the
roadway or right-of-way passing the frontage of the property. Notice posted on the
property shall be maintained until the date of hearing on a weatherproof sign that is
at least three feet by four feet in size. The sign shall have a white background and
contain the word "NOTICE" in red capital letters at least six inches high. The
remaining lettering shall be in black capital letters a minimum of three inches in
height. Notice shall contain at least the following language: "This property is the
subject of a rezoning hearing before the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on
(date) at (time) at (location)."

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 35

B. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certified mail, with
return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the hearing, by the Zoning Board
of Appeals to the clerk of each municipality within 1½ miles of the property
proposed to be rezoned. Notice shall also be sent, in the same manner, to the clerk
of the township in which the property is located the superintendent of each school
district and the fire chief of the local fire protection district in which the property is
located. AnThe applicant shall serve written notice, by certified mail, with return
receipt requested, to property owners within 250 feet of the lot line of the subject
property, whose names appear on the Cook County tax records, as to the date, time
and location of the public hearing. For condominium developments that are located
within 250 feel of the lot line of the subject property, only the condominium
association shall be served with notice. The notices shall contain the same
information as the posted notice and shall also contain the legal description of the
property, the common address of the property, the name of the applicant, the
applicant's representative and a brief description of the requested map amendment.
In addition, notice of all hearings shall be sent to each civic or property owners'
organization requesting notice of hearings on map amendments. Failure to notify a
civic or property owners' organization, however, shall not invalidate the hearing.
Supplemental or additional notices may be published or distributed as prescribed
by the Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. All required notices shall be provided at the
expense of the applicant. Applicant shall submit proof of mailing for all required
notices. Applicants shall also furnish a sworn affidavit to the Zoning Board of
Appeals certifying compliance with the notice requirements of this ordinance.
C. Except as indicated in subsection B, the aApplicants shall be responsible for the
preparation of both posted and mailed notices and shall be solely responsible for
the adequacy and accuracy of the information. The applicant shall also be
responsible for placing and maintaining posted notice and for mailing and
maintaining records of written notices. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be responsible for assuring that notice by newspaper publication, at
the expense of the applicant, is given.
D. Copies of an application shall be served in person or by certified mail on the
owners of record within ten days after the application is filed when the applicant is
the President or a member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Where
the application is filed by a person having an interest in the subject property, a
notice and copy of the application shall be served in like manner upon persons or
entities having an interest in the property. . When the applicant is the President or a
member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, notice shall be served in
accordance with this section, by the Zoning Board of Appeals, not less than 15
days nor more than 30 days before a scheduled public hearing. Notice and service
requirements shall be in addition to posting and publishing requirements of this
article.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 36
13.7.8. Hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at least one a public hearing on
each application for a map amendment in the township in which the property is
located. aAn authorized representative of any County department that provided
comment on the application shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The hearing shall take place at the Cook County Administration
Building unless the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the
County Building has more adequate facilities for such hearing. Provided, that if the
owner of any property affected by such proposed map amendment submits a
written request to the Zoning Board of Appeals within 14 days of referral by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners, Committee on Building and Zoning, such
hearing shall be held in the township or road district affected by the terms of such
proposed amendment, as provided by State law. A record of proceedings,
examinations, and other official actions shall be preserved in the manner
prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. If there is a judicial proceeding for a
violation of any Cook County ordinance involving the subject property, the
applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall the Zoning Board of Appeals grant,
amore than one continuance. The hearing shall be transcribed by a court reporter of
the applicant’s choosing. Failure of the applicant to provide a transcript of the
hearing(s) within 30 days following the hearing shall void the application. The
deadline to submit a transcript may be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals
once, for a maximum of 30 additional days.
13.7.9. Standards and findings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
A. Evidence submitted shall be reviewed by the Zoning Board of Appeals to
determine whether the proposed use benefits public health, safety and welfare with
respect to the following standards:
1. Uses of surrounding property.
2. Zoning classification of surrounding property.
3. Suitability of the subject property for the use permitted under the existing
zoning classification.
4. Trend of development in the area.
5. Length of time the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context
of land development in the surrounding area.
6. Extent to which property values are diminished by particular zoning
restrictions.
7. Need in the community for the proposed use.
8. Consistency with the Cook County Comprehensive Land Use and Policies
Plan.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 37
B. Applicants shall submit one original and 15 copies of proposed findings of fact
documenting how the proposed amendment meets the standard to the Zoning
Board of Appeals within 30 days of the public hearing. The applicant may seek,
and the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant for good cause shown, one 30-day
extension of time for the applicant to submit findings of fact. The Zoning Board
shall, within seven days from receiving the applicant's proposed findings of fact,
forward the proposed findings of fact to the Cook County Commissioners in
whose district the property is located, the Cook County Department of Planning
and Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook
County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Department of Public Health, the Cook County Department of
Environmental Control, to each municipality within 1½ miles of the subject
property and local school and fire protection districts. Any interested party, upon
written request to the Zoning Board of Appeals, may review the applicant's
proposed findings of fact. County departments, municipalities and other interested
persons shall have 30 days from receiving the applicant's proposed findings of fact
to file a written response with the Zoning Board of Appeals. The applicant or its
representative may, within 14 days of the response period, review and/or furnish
the Zoning Board of Appeals with any reply to the written responses filed.
C. Recommendations and comments of the Cook County Department of Planning and
Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook
County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Health Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control and municipalities within 1½ miles of the subject property and local
school and fire protection districts shall be considered and addressed in writing by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in its findings and recommendations. The Secretary
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall prepare findings of fact and
recommendations in accordance with this article.
D. Written findings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 90 days after the close of a
public hearing on a proposed map amendment. The Zoning Board of Appeals and
shall be submitted its findings and recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. Recommendations and comments of the Cook County
Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Department of
Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook
County Forest Preserve District, the Cook County Health Department, the Cook
County Department of Environmental Control and municipalities within 1½ miles
of the subject property and local school and fire protection districts shall be
considered and addressed in writing by the Zoning Board of Appeals in its findings
and recommendations. The 90-day period may be extended by the Zoning Board
of Appeals once, for a maximum of 30 additional days if the Zoning Board of
Appeals granted an extension pursuant to this article. Failure of the Applicant to
provide a transcript of the hearing within 60 days following the hearing shall void
the application.
E. C. Recommendation for the adoption of a proposed map amendment shall not be
made by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written findings of fact that
the proposed use satisfies each of the standards and is in the best interest of the
public. In all cases, the recommendations to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners are advisory only.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 38
13.7.10. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
A. Final action shall not be taken on a proposed map amendment by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners until the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings of fact and
recommendations have been received.
B. Map amendments shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all
members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning
Board of Appeals has not recommended adoption of a proposed map amendment
or where there has been a written protest filed against a proposed map amendment
in accordance with this article.
C. Applications for map amendments shall be deemed denied if the Cook County
Board of Commissioners has not taken final action within 60 days of receiving the
Zoning Board of Appeals' findings and recommendations. The 60-day period may
be extended if a request for an extension is made by the applicant or by a Cook
County Board Commissioner and is granted by the Board of Commissioners.
D. Decisions reached by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take into
account the findings and recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
E. D. Map amendments granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall
be included in an ordinance passed by the County Board.
13.7.11. Effect of denial. An application for a map amendment which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date of the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
13.7.12. Text amendments. The Cook County Board of Commissioner's home rule
authority to amend the text of this ordinance shall not be limited by this article.
13.8. - Special uses.
13.8.1. Purpose. The development and execution of this ordinance is based upon the
division of Cook County into zoning districts. In addition to permitted uses, there are
special uses which may be necessary because of the unusual characteristics or services
special uses provide to the public. Special uses require case-by-case consideration to
determine public need, appropriate location, impact on adjacent, existing or future uses and
compatibility to the planned development of the community. Special uses fall into two
categories.
A. Uses publicly operated or traditionally associated with a public interest.
B. Uses generally consistent with permitted uses which give rise to unique problems
or benefits by virtue of their impact on neighboring property, public facilities or
Cook County as a whole.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 39
13.8.2. Initiation. A special use may be proposed by the President or a member of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners or by any person or entity having an interest in the
subject property. A special use shall be initiated as provided in this article.
13.8.3. Notice of application. Applicants shall, not less than 15 days nor more than 30
days before filing an application, serve written notice of intent to apply for a special use,
by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the property owners within 250 feet of
the lot lines of the subject property. The property owners receiving notice shall be those
persons or entities whose names appear on the Cook County tax records. For condominium
developments that are located within 250 feet of the lot line of the subject property, only
the condominium association shall be served with notice. The number of feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys, other public ways shall be excluded in computing the 250 feet
requirement. Notice need not be sent to owners more than 400 feet from the subject
property when public streets, alleys and other public ways are included in the computation.
In addition, the applicant shall serve notice to the clerk of each municipality within 1½
miles of the subject property, the superintendent of each local school district, the fire chief
of each local fire protection district, the township clerk and township highway
commissioner. When the applicant is either the President of a member of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners, notice shall be served in accordance with this section, by the
Zoning Board of Appeals. Notice shall contain the address of the subject property, a brief
statement of the nature of the application, the name and address of the applicant and a
statement of the approximate date when the applicant intends to apply. If the property
owner on which notice is served cannot be found, or the mailed notice is returned, the
notice requirements of this provision shall be deemed satisfied provided the applicant
made a bonafide effort to determine the owner's address.
13.8.4. Application.
A. An applications for a special use shall be submitted to the Department of Building
and Zoning in such form and accompanied by such information as required by the
Department of Building and Zoning. The applicant shall file one original and 15
copies of the application and all supporting documents. The applicant shall include
a written statement and evidence establishing that the proposed special use will
conform to the standards set forth in this article. The applicant shall attest, and the
Department of Building and Zoning shall independently verify, thatwhether there
is noa judicial proceeding for a violation of any Cook County ordinance pending
pertaining to the subject property.
B. Applicants shall provide a development plan or schedule for phased development
of the special use if the special use is not intended to be established within one
year. Upon approval, the development plan or schedule for the phased
development shall be considered as a limitation and condition on the special use
permit.
C. Applicants shall furnishile with to the Department of Building and Zoning a sworn
affidavit containing a complete list of the names and last known addresses of the
persons served with notice pursuant to 13.8.3.. The applicant shall also furnish a
written statement to the Department of Building and Zoning certifying compliance
with the notice requirements of this ordinance.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 40
D. Notices, as set forth in this article, shall be served by the Secretary of the Zoning
Board of Appeals when the applicant is either the President or a member of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners. Notice shall be served not less than 15
days nor more than 30 days before a scheduled public hearing.
E. Applications shall be accompanied by proposed findings of fact addressing each of
the standards in 13.8.9 (A).
E. Applications shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners in order to be deemed complete.
F. Applications which fail to comply with this section shall be returned by the Zoning
Administrator to the applicant, and the accompanying fee will be reimbursed. The
Zoning Administrator may retain one copy of the application and supporting
documents.
13.8.5. Disclosure. Applicants shall make the following disclosures by sworn affidavit,
filed at the time of the application.
A. Property.
1. Applicants of property held in a land trust shall disclose the identity of each
beneficiary of the trust including the name, address and percentage of interest
of each beneficiary. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
2. Applicants of property owned by a partnership or association of two or more
persons holding a common interest shall disclose the name and address of each
partner or associate. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
3. Applicants of property owned by a corporation shall disclose the name,
address and percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning threefive
percent or more of the corporation. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath
and filed at the time of the application.
B. Applicant.
1. Applicants acting as agents or nominees shall disclose their agency
relationship and the name and address of the principals, and their interest
in the subject property, shall be disclosed. If the principals are not
individuals, the identity of the principals shall be disclosed as set forth
below. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the time of
the application.
2. Applicants who are either the President or a member of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners shall disclose any ownership interest in the
property or any direct or indirect interest in the property and the nature of
the interest. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the time
of the application.
3. Applicants who are partnerships or associations of two or more persons
holding a common interest shall disclose the name, address and percentage
of ownership interest of each partner or associate having more than a five

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 41
percent interest. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and filed at the
time of the application.
4. Applicants who are corporations shall disclose the name, address and
percentage of ownership interest of shareholders owning five percent or
more of the corporation. Disclosure shall be a statement under oath and
filed at the time of the application.
C. Applications which fail to comply with this article shall be returned by the Zoning
Administrator to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall retain one copy of
the application and supporting documents.
13.8.6. Processing applications.
Upon receipt of a complete application for special use, and at leat 15 days before a
scheduled hearing date, tThe Zoning Board of AppealsDepartment of Building and Zoning
shall forward a copy of the complete application for special use, including the applicant’s
proposed findings of fact and all supporting documentation, to the Cook County
Commissioner in whose district the property is located, and shall notify the Cook County
Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Department of Building and
Zoning, the Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve
District, the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the Cook County Department
of Environmental Control that a complete application, including the applicant’s proposed
findings of fact and all supporting documentation has been submitted and is ready for
reviewat least 30 days before a scheduled hearing date. Each reviewing department shall
submit recommendations and comments to the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
at least three days before the scheduled hearing date. In addition, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall provide notice of the availability of the application and supporting
documents for inspection and copying to the superintendent of local school districts, the
fire chiefs of local fire protection districts, the township highway commissioner, the
township clerk and municipalities within 1½ miles from the subject property. Each
reviewing department shall submit recommendations and comments at least 7 days before
the scheduled hearing date.
Each reviewing department shall examine the application and supporting
documentation based upon the following, as well as similar criteria:
A. Department of Planning and Development.
1. Economic impact.
2. Community need.
3. Trend of development.
4. Demographics.
5. Property values.
B. Department of Building and Zoning.
1. Site plan review.
2. Land use and permit review of properties in the vicinity of the proposed use.
3. Lot size.
4. Subdivision regulations.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 42
C. Department of Highways.
1. Wetland mitigation and compensation.
2. Floodway and floodplain capacity and storage.
3. Drainage detention requirements.
4. Roads, bridges, culverts, driveways, sidewalks, ingress and egress and access
control.
5. Subdivision regulations.
6. Drainage, utilities and road easements and dedications.
7. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Department of Transportation, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers,
local fire protection agencies and townships.
8. Erosion and sediment control requirements.
D. Forest Preserve District.
1. Compatibility of the proposed use with Forest Preserve holdings.
2. Impact on value of Forest Preserve holdings.
3. Future Forest Preserve acquisitions.
E. Department of Public Health.
1. Lot sizes for private septic systems and wells.
2. Subdivision regulations.
3. Swimming pools.
4. Public or community well and septic or sewage systems.
5. Health and Safety concerns.
F. Department of Environmental Control.
1. Noise and odor regulations.
2. Soil geology and composition.
3. Wetland mitigation and compensation.
4. Discharges of effluent and particulate into the air, land and water.
5. Criteria from other regulatory agencies such as the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Illinois
Department of Natural Resources, United States Army Corps of Engineers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency.
The County department's recommendations and comments shall be available to the
applicant or its representative, upon request, for review and/or reproduction prior to the
hearing date.
13.8.7. Notice of public hearing.
A. Time and place of a public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Cook County not less than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, at
least 15 days before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property for which a special use application has been filed in such a way as to be
plainly visible from the roadway or right-of-way passing the frontage of the
property. Notice posted on the property shall be maintained until the date of
hearing on a weatherproof sign that is at least three feet by four feet in size. The
sign shall have a white background and contain the word "NOTICE" in red capital
letters at least six inches high. The remaining lettering shall be in black capital

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 43
letters a minimum of three inches in height. Notice shall contain at least the
following language: "This property is the subject of a special use hearing before
the Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals on (date) at (time) at (location)."
B. Written notice shall be served by regular mail and also by certified mail, with
return receipt requested, at least 15 days before the hearing by the Zoning Board of
Appeals to the Clerk of each municipality within 1½ miles of the property for
which the special use application has been filed. Notice shall also be sent, in the
same manner, to the clerk of the township in which the property is located and to
the superintendent of each school district and the fire chief of the local fire
protection district in which the property is located. An applicant shall serve written
notice, by certified mail, with return receipt requested, to property owners within
250 feet of the lot line of the subject property, whose names appear on the Cook
County tax records, as to the date, time and location of the public hearing. For
condominium developments that are located within 250 feet of the lot line of the
subject property, only the condominium association shall be served with notice.
The notices shall contain the same information as the posted notice and shall also
contain the legal description of the property, the common address of the property,
the name of the applicant, the applicant's representative and a brief description of
the requested special use. In addition, notice of all hearings shall be sent to each
civic or property owners' organization requesting notice of hearings on special
uses. Failure to notify a civic or property owners' organization, however, shall not
invalidate the hearing. Supplemental or additional notices shall be published or
distributed as prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. All required notices
shall be provided at the expense of the applicant. Applicant shall submit proof of
mailing for all required notices. Applicant shall also file a sworn affidavit with the
Department of Building and Zoning certifying compliance with the notice
requirements of this ordinance.
C. Except as indicated in subsection B, the aApplicants shall be responsible for the
preparation of both posted and mailed notices and shall be solely responsible for
adequacy and accuracy of the information. The applicant shall also be responsible
for placing and maintaining posted notice and for mailing and maintaining records
of written notices. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
responsible for assuring that notice by newspaper publication, at the expense of the
applicant, is given.
D. When the applicant is the President or a member of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, Copies of an applicationnotice shall be served in accordance with
this section, by the Zoning Board of Appeals, not less than 15 days nor more than
30 days before a scheduled public hearing in person or by certified mail on the
owners of record within ten days after the application is filed when the applicant is
the President or a member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Where
the application is filed by a person having an interest in the subject property, a
notice and copy of the application shall be served in like manner upon all other
persons or entities having an interest in the property. Notice and service
requirements shall be in addition to posting and publishing requirements of this
article.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 44
13.8.8. Hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at least one a public hearing on each
application for a special use in the township in which the property is located. An
authorized representative of any county department that provided comment on the
application shall testify at the hearing if requested by the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The hearing shall take place at the Cook County Administration Building
unless the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the County
Building has more adequate facilities for such hearing. A record of proceedings,
examinations, and other official actions shall be preserved in the manner
prescribed by Zoning Board of Appeals' rules. If there is a judicial proceeding for a
violation of any Cook County ordinance involving the subject property, the
applicant shall not be entitled to seek, nor shall the Zoning Board of Appeals grant,
more than one a continuance. The hearing shall be transcribed by a court reporter
of the applicant’s choosing. Failure of the applicant to provide a transcript of the
hearing(s) within 30 days following the hearing shall void the application. The
deadline to submit a transcript may be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals
once, for a maximum of 30 additional days.
13.8.9. Standards and findings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
A. Special uses shall not be recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it
makes written findings of fact consistent with the following standards:
1. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not be
detrimental to or endanger public health, safety or general welfare.
2. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not be
injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity
for the uses already permitted, nor diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood.
3. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for
permitted uses.
4. Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary facilities have
been or are being provided.
5. Adequate measures have been, or will be, taken to provide ingress and egress
designed to minimize traffic congestion in public streets.
6. Establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use shall in all other
respects conform to all Cook County ordinances, unless otherwise authorized
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners pursuant to the recommendation
of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
B. Applicants shall submit one original and 15 copies of proposed findings of fact
documenting how the proposed special use meets the standards, to the Zoning
Board of Appeals within 30 days of the public hearing. The applicant may seek,
and the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant for good cause shown, one 30-day
extension of time for the applicant to submit findings of fact. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall, within seven days of receiving the applicant's proposed findings of
fact, forward the proposed findings of fact to the Cook County Commissioner in

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 45
whose district the property is located, the Cook County Department of Planning
and Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook
County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Health Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control to each municipality within 1½ miles of the subject property and local
school and fire protection districts. Any interested party, upon written request to
the Zoning Board of Appeals, may review the applicant's proposed findings of
fact. County departments, municipalities and other interested persons shall have 30
days from receiving the applicant's proposed findings of fact to file a written
response with the Zoning Board of Appeals. The applicant or its representative
may, within 14 days of the response period, review and/or furnish the Zoning
Board of Appeals with any reply to the written response filed.
C. Recommendations and comments of the Cook County Department of Planning and
Development, the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning, the Cook
County Department of Highways, the Cook County Forest Preserve District, the
Cook County Health Department, the Cook County Department of Environmental
Control, and municipalities within 1½ miles of the subject property and local
school and fire protection districts shall be considered and addressed in writing by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in its findings and recommendations. The Secretary
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward findings of fact and
recommendations in accordance with this article.
D. Written findings of fact and recommendations to approve or deny the application
shall be made by the Zoning Board of Appeals within 90 days after the close of a
public hearing on a proposed special use and shall be submitted to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners. Recommendations and comments of the Cook
County Department of Planning and Development, the Cook County Department
of Building and Zoning, the Cook County Department of Highways, the Cook
County Forest Preserve District, the Cook County Health Department, the Cook
County Department of Environmental Control, and municipalities within 1½ miles
of the subject property and local school and fire protection districts shall be
considered and addressed in writing by the Zoning Board of Appeals in its findings
and recommendations.The Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit its findings and
recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The 90-day
period may be extended by the Zoning Board of Appeals for a maximum of 30
additional days if the Zoning Board of Appeals granted an extension pursuant to
this article.
E. Recommendation for the adoption of a proposed special use shall not be made by
the Zoning Board of Appeals unless it makes written findings of fact that the
proposed use satisfies each of the standards and is in the best interest of the public.
In all cases, the recommendations to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
are advisory only.
13.8.10. Conditions and guarantees. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend,
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners may impose, conditions and restrictions
upon a special use to assure compliance with standards and requirements of this ordinance.
The Cook County Board of Commissioners may require evidence and guarantees to ensure
that the applicant complies with the conditions and restrictions of the special use. Failure

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 46
of the applicant to comply with such conditions or restrictions shall constitute a violation
of this ordinance.
13.8.11. Action by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
A. Final action shall not be taken on a proposed special use by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners until the Zoning Board of Appeals' findings of fact and
recommendations have been received.
B. Special uses shall be approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all members
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of
Appeals has not recommended adoption of a proposed special use or where there
has been a written protest filed against a proposed special use in accordance with
this article.
C. Applications for special uses shall be deemed denied if the Cook County Board of
Commissioners has not taken final action within 60 days of receiving the Zoning
Board of Appeals' findings and recommendations. The 60-day period may be
extended if a request for an extension is made by the applicant or by a Cook
County Board Commissioner and is granted by the Board of Commissioners.
D. Decisions reached by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall take into
account the findings and recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
E. D. Special uses granted by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be
included in an ordinance passed by the County Board.
13.8.12. Planned unit developments. A planned unit development shall conform to the
requirements in Article 9.
13.8.13. Effect of denial. Applications for special uses which have been denied wholly
or in part by the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall not be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of the denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
13.8.14. Revocation. A special use which has been approved but not established on a
zoning lot within one year or as otherwise provided by the special use permit shall be null
and void. A special use is established on the date of issuance of a building permit. The
Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have authority to extend the time limitation contained
in a special use permit. If a special use is revoked by operation of this provision, and if the
special use was granted in conjunction with a map amendment, the map amendment shall
be revoked concurrently with revocation of the special use. Upon revocation, zoning of the
subject property shall revert to the prior zoning classification unless otherwise authorized
by the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
ARTICLE 14. RULES AND DEFINITIONS
Map Amendment. An amendment to the zoning map which modifies a property’s zoning
designation.

 ZONING AND BUILDING AGENDA
JULY 31, 2013
PAGE 47
Telecommunications carrier, wireless communication transmitting and receiving facility.
A “telecommunications carrier, wireless communication transmitting and receiving
facility” is a facility which consists of a combination of improvements and equipment,
including but not limited to towers, antennas, wires, electrical cabinets, and foundations,
that is operated pursuant to applicable federal licenses and includes antenna devices by
which signals are transmitted and/or received.
Text Amendment. A change in the development standards in one or more zoning districts.
Effective Date: This Proposed Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
passage and approval.
* Referred to the Zoning and Building Committee on July 17, 2013.

* The next regularly scheduled meeting is presently set for September 11, 2013.

According to the Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107
(dd), public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at
committee meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to
those individuals who have submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and
organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public
speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony
must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the
time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to
act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere
to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person
from providing future testimony.

 