REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON WORKFORCE, JOB DEVELOPMENT TRAINING
AND OPPORTUNITIES
September 9, 2009
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Gorman and Sims
(4)

Absent:

Commissioner Suffredin

Also Present: Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Daley and Gainer; Karen S. Crawford, Director,
President’s Office of Employment Training, Charles Jenrich, Chairman of the
Cook County Workforce Investment Board and Albert Pritchett Chairman,
Workforce Investment Board
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Workforce, Job Development and Training Opportunities of the Board
of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Wednesday, September 9, 2009 at
the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
302413

RESOLUTION REQUESTING REVIEW OF THE PRESIDENT’S OFFICE OF
EMPLOYMENT TRAINING (P.O.E.T.) (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a
Proposed Resolution sponsored by Peter N. Silvestri, John P. Daley and Earlean
Collins, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the President’s Office of Employment Training (POET) was
established to offer job training services and programs to assist residents in the
search for employment and to help them enhance existing job skills; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity is
freezing $2.35 million in grant money for POET after a probe raised questions
about spending and accounting practices at the office; and
WHEREAS, the state is also demanding that POET return $1.8 million in unspent
grant money dating back to 2007; and
WHEREAS, the state is cutting off the county’s direct access to grant money for
POET’s summer job program for youth, directing administrators to go through a
rigorous reimbursement program through the state; and
WHEREAS, POET’s former financial manager was sentenced to four years in
prison earlier this year after pleading guilty to stealing more than $100,000 from
the program; and

 WORKFORCE, JOB DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2009
PAGE 2

WHEREAS, in 2008, three former POET employees were charged with conspiring
with two ministers to siphon more than $2 million from banks and taxpayers for
sham training, according to prosecutors; and
WHEREAS, state officials say they are not trying to shut the doors on POET but
would like to push it toward more responsible management.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County
Board of Commissioners promptly hold a meeting of the appropriate committee to
review the program and the allegations against it so that it can be run as intended.
*Referred to the Workforce, Job Development and Training Opportunities Committee
as amended on 09-1-09.

302435

RESOLUTION TO EVALUATE AND DISCUSS THE PRESIDENT’S OFFICE OF
EMPLOYMENT TRAINING (P.O.E.T.) (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a
Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to
Article VII, Section 6 (a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, on August 14, 2009 the President’s Office of Employment Training
(“P.O.E.T.”) received written communication from the Department of Commerce
and Economic Opportunity (“DCEO”) that access to cash for Grant 08-762007 had
been suspended; and
WHEREAS, while DCEO acknowledges that P.O.E.T. continues to make progress
in some areas of program management and administration, they note that
P.O.E.T. needs to be more aggressive in four major areas: (1) Service Providers;
(2) Program Monitoring; (3) Financial Management; and (4) Reorganization of the
Labor Workforce Investment Board (“LWIB”) and County Board oversight; and
WHEREAS, P.O.E.T. is a vital part of Cook County’s ability to provide necessary
job training and placement services to residents of south and west suburban Cook
County and therefore it is imperative that P.O.E.T. come into compliance with both
Federal and State guidelines to ensure continuous funding.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that this Board conduct a public hearing
on September 9, 2009 to discuss and evaluate P.O.E.T’s compliance with State
and Federal guidelines.
*Referred to the Workforce, Job Development and Training Opportunities Committee
on 09-1-09.

Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved to receive and
file Communication Nos. 302413 as amended and 302435. The motion carried.

 WORKFORCE, JOB DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2009
PAGE 3
Chairman Collins stated the purpose of the meeting was to ascertain a better understanding of
the federal, state and local policies as they pertain to the Congress’ intended goals for
workforce development programs. It has been alleged that the President’s Office of Employment
Training (P.O.E.T). in Cook County was not in compliance with the state’s monitoring
requirements. The role of the State of Illinois is to monitor the P.O.E.T supportive service
program, determine appropriate services areas and provide recommendations to the P.O.E.T
program (Cook County).
Chairman Collins stated that Mr. Warren Ripley (Director, Illinois Department of Commerce and
Economic Opportunity) and Ms. Theresa McMahon (Deputy Director, Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity), have been very critical of P.O.E.T services, and were
invited to speak at the committee meeting and provide an update on the federal stimulus
package as it relates to workforce development programs. P.O.E.T had anticipated there would
be difficulties with receiving the proper paperwork to implement the youth jobs program for
summer employment. Chairman Collins predicted there would be problems in Illinois and the
nation due to the federal government’s time frame allotted. In spite of the limitations, P.O.E.T
hired youth for 2009 summer jobs.
Mr. Albert Pritchett, Workforce Investment Board, Oversight member stated the role of P.O.E.T
is training and employment of its participants. The agency’s responsibility is not to keep
agencies in business that is not performing. One problem that P.O.E.T experiences is the south
and west suburbs have limited job opportunities. P.O.E.T needs commitments from businesses,
at minimum, to assist the agency to improve the employment and training programs.
Mr. Charles Jenrich, Chairman of the Cook County Workforce Investment Board, stated his
belief that P.O.E.T’s Workforce Board, (CCWIB) has been falsely regarded as a rubber stamp
board by the State of Illinois. Since Karen Crawford has joined P.O.E.T, she has been subject
to provided more oversight. Mr. Jenrich stated he was the Dean at Prairie State College and
there were comments regarding the position being a conflict of interest, so he retired. P.O.E.T
has continued to provide the type of services that have gotten P.O.E.T commendations and
incentives along the way. The board has successfully administered its responsibilities. The
workforce investment board should be allowed to continue functioning in the manner that was
intended in the Workforce Investment Act. It is his sincere effort to run the board in a
professional manner and to resolve any issues that are proposed by the State of Illinois.
Karen S. Crawford, (Director, P.O.E.T) stated the program provides significant services for
individuals located in the south and west suburban Cook County. (See attachment #1.)
Chairman Collins inquired about the number of jobs that were available for the summer
program?
Ms. Crawford responded that system-wide over 4,624 applications were received and 1,200
positions were filled.

 WORKFORCE, JOB DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2009
PAGE 4
Chairman Collins stated Cook County does not receive the grant verification documents that are
needed to forward them to the Comptroller’s office; so the Comptroller cannot process any
financial claims. Therefore, that lag time delays the financial process. The program starts July
1st but Cook County does not start the program and approve it until September – sometimes
October, because the State does not send necessary documentation to the County for inclusion
on the Board agenda. The stimulus grant was awarded in February 2009. However, the
County started the program after the State released the grant documents in May. So, if you
think about 4000 applicants, these individuals still need to be processed to get the job and they
still have to be notified that they have gotten jobs. Futher the State’s direction was not to use
stimulus funding for staff and infrastructure so P.O.E.T had limited means to deal with that kind
of volume.
In addition, the formula grant is a two year program where the federal government stipulated the
80% of the funding should be spent in the first year of the program. If the funding was not
spent, the State would lose the funding and the federal government would be sent to another
state. So with that kind of pressure, the program is doomed for failure.
Commissioner Sims inquired about the letters received from the State of Illinois regarding the
four benchmarks and the hiring of personnel.
Ms. Crawford responded the State of Illinois has alleged that P.O.E.T. does not have an
adequate number of qualified staff to manage the financial function. The State of Illinois
recommended the agency hire a certified public accountant as financial director, a fiscal
manager, a comptroller and up to 4 qualified accountants or bookkeepers. The reality is all
those positions are filled and are functioning. The State of Illinois assessment of their
qualifications seems to be the issue. Ms. Crawford stated that P.O.E.T has a seventeen year
P.O.E.T veteran as the fiscal director with federal funding expertise, a fiscal manager that is a
twenty-four year veteran at P.O.E.T and four bookkeeper positions. The letter refers to an
indictment or the State of Illinois assessment of staff’s qualification versus positions not existing
or functioning. Those positions do in fact function in P.O.E.T.
Commissioner Gorman inquired about the certification of the staff.
Ms. Crawford responded the fiscal director possesses a degree in computer technology which is
significant to P.O.E.T. There is an accountant who is a college graduate. One bookkeeper
came to P.O.E.T with experience from one of P.O.E.T service provider agencies and the other
bookkeeper is a graduate of University of Chicago with a master’s degree in economics.
Finally, the last bookkeeper is an experienced P.O.E.T employee. Further, P.O.E.T has two
CPA’s on staff.
Commissioner Daley inquired on the number of meetings the Workforce Investment Board
schedules.
Mr. Jenrich responded the Workforce Investment Board meets nine times a year as a full board.
Commissioner Daley stated that the CCWIB meets more often the State Board and that the last
time the State was in trouble with the USDOL they seemed to focus unfairly on the Cook
County. This appears personal and the President should probably reach out to the Governor on
the issue of P.O.E.T.
Commissioners Beavers inquired as to the payment of the summer jobs for the youth.

 WORKFORCE, JOB DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2009
PAGE 5
Ms. Crawford replied the majority of the youth came to the orientation without all the required
documentation for payroll processing. All the young people received their paychecks.
Commissioner Gainer inquired to the validity of the State of Illinois’ comments.
Ms. Crawford replied there are four benchmarks remaining of the original ten given to complete.
The letter dated July 29 affords P.O.E.T ninety days before the local area is reorganized by the
Governor. It is P.O.E.T’s intention to meet all remaining benchmarks within the ninety day
period, however the State will assess if they have been completed to their satisfaction. Also, in
the letter there is a requirement that all invoices be submitted in the beginning of August and
using software provided by the State of Illinois; yet it is September 9th and the software has not
been received.
Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Schneider, Commissioners Daley and Gorman voiced their
disappointment in the State of Illinois not appearing today.

Chairman Collins asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-108(dd):

PUBLIC SPEAKERS
1)
2)
3)
4)

George Blakemore – Concerned Citizen
Michael Neal – Youth Committee Workforce Investment Board
Jack Fitzpatrick - CEO, Employment and Employer Services
Rachel Romo – Executive Director, Central States SER

Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Schneider, moved to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER
NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 302413
Communication Number 302435

Receive and File
Receive and File

 WORKFORCE, JOB DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 9, 2009
PAGE 6

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Workforce, Job Development
and Training Opportunities

___________________________________
Earlean Collins, Chairman

Attest:

_________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

The complete audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the
Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 