 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Tuesday, January 14, 2014 9:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 public
testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing ?iture testimony.

14-0175

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED APPOINTMENT

Appointee: Jose Dimas

Position: Trustee

Department/Board/Commission: Central Stickney Sanitary District
Effective date: Immediate

Expiration date: May 1, 2016. Mr. Dimas will replace Fortino Carillo, who is currently serving on an expired
term.

Legislative History: 12/4/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

14-0178

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT

Appointee: Anthony A. Iosco

Position: Member

Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Zoning Board of Appeals

Effective date: Immediate

Expiration date: January 15, 2019

Legislative History: 12/4/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

{?ap B. 1311ij

Seer ary

Chairman: Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Committee of the Whole

Page 1 of 2

