REPORT OF THE COMIVIITTEE ON LEGISLATION
AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS

PUBLIC HEARING

February 9, 2012

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Eritchey, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Collins, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims,

Steele and Tobolski (16)

Absent: Commissioner Goslin (1)

Also Present: Patrick Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau

Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

You?r Committee on Legislation and the Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Thursday, February 9, 2012 at the hour of 10:00 AM. for a
public hearing in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,

Illinois.
The Secretary informed Chairman Suffredin that a quorum was present.

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public Speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

Name Organization

1. Gerald Bromley Concerned Citizen

2. Michael Madia Conc?emed Citizen

3. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

4. Adam Schwartz Senior Staff Attorney, ACLU of Illinois

5. Jorge Avulos . Volunteer, Interfaith Leadership Project

6. Fred Tsao Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights

7. Thomas Weitzel Riverside Police Department

llLEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

Michael Alsop

Christopher A. Garcia

. Mary Meg McCarthy

Carolina Rivera
Dawn Mueller
Claudia Henriquez
Maria Pesqueira
Yesenia Sanchez

Jose Luis Gutierrez

Father Brendan Curran, O.P.

Jane Ramsey
Monika Starczuk
Charles Butler
Joseph Watkins

Paul McKinley

PUBLIC HEARING
FEBRUARY 9, 2012
PAGE 2

North Suburban Police Chiefs Association

Law Of?ce ofthe Cook County Public Defender
Heartland Alliance?s National Immigrant Justice Center
Community Leader, Southwest Organizing Project

No Harbor

Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
Mujeres Latinas en Accion and ICIRR

P.A.S.O. West Suburban Action Project

La Federacion de Clubes Michoacanos en Illinois
Priests for Justice for Immigrants; St. Pius Church
President, Jewish Council on Urban Affairs

Polish Initiative Chicago

Aricent LLC

Concerned Citizen

Concerned Citizen

Additionally, the following presentations were recognized by Chairman Suffredin:

Brian McCann

Honorable Torn Dart

Honorable Rod Craig

Juliana Stratton

Concerned Citizen
Cook County Sheriff
Mayor, Village of Hanover Park

Judicial Advisory Council

The following individuals submitted written testimony only:

Ahlam Jbara

Leone Jose Bicchieri

Interim Executive Director, The Council of Islamic
Organizations of Greater Chicago (CIOGC)

Executive Director, Chicago Workers? Collaborative

316283

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

PUBLIC HEARING
FEBRUARY 9, 2012
PAGE 3

AN AMENDMENT TO POLICY FOR RESPONDING TO ICE DETAINERS
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Timothy 0. Schneider, Elizabeth ?Liz? Doody Gorman and
Gregg Goslin, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sec. 46-37. Policy for responding to ICE detainers.

The Sheriff of Cook County shall decline ICE detainer requests unless
there is a written agreement with the federal government by which all costs incurred by
Cook County in complying with the ICE detainer shall be reimbursed or the individual
referenced in the detainer:

(1) Has been charged with:

A felony which is a ?forcible felony? in Illinois, or the equivalent
under the law of any_other iurisdiction, as defined in 720 
5/2-8 treason, ?rst degree murder, second degree murder,
predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, aggravated criminal
_s_exual assault, criminal sexual assault, robbery. burglary.
residential burglary, aggravated arson, arson, aggravated
kidnapping, kidnapping, aggravated battery resulting in 
bodily harm or permanent disability; or i

(B) A Class 2 felony or greater offense under the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act. 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., the Cannabis Control
Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., or the Methamphetamine Control and
Community Protection Act, 720 ILCS 646;? et sea, or the
equivalent under the law of any other iurisdiction; or

A felony offense under the Illinois Compiled Statutes resulting in
the death, great bodily harm or disability or
disfigurement of any individual; or

ls listed on the Terrorist Identities Datamart Enyil?onrnenl (TIDE)

Unless ICE agents have a criminal warrant, or County of?cials have
examined the individuals criminal history and believe the' individual is eligible to have his
detainer honored pursuant to 46-3 ICE agents shall not be given access to individuals
or allowed to use County facilities for investigative interviews or other purposes, and
County personnel shall not expend their time responding to ICE inquiries or
communicating with ICE regarding individuals? incarceration status or release dates while
on duty.

There being no legal authority upon which the federal government may
compel an expenditure of County resources to comply with an ICE detainer issued
pursuant to 8 USC 1226 or 8 USC 1357(d), there shall be no expenditure of any
County resources or effort by on-duty County personnel for this purpose, except as

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

PUBLIC HEARING
FEBRUARY 9, 2012
PAGE4
expressly provided within this Ordinance.
Any person who alleges a violation of this Ordinance may ?le a written

complaint for investigation with the Cook County Sheriff?s Office of Professional Review.

{cl Nothinwthis?ection shall prohibit. or be construed as the
Sheriff of Cook County from identifving and reporting anv person pursuant to State and
or regulation who is in eustodv after being _b_eoked for the alleged commission
gig felony and is suspected of violating the civil provisions of tlte in'tmigt'atiou laws. 
addition, Section shall oreciude anv County department. anenev. officer, or
etnnlovee from {aLr?ep?ortinn information to ICE regarding an individual who has been
booked at auv county jail facility. and who has previously been convicted otja felonv under
the of the State of Illinois; with an ICE for 
Egnrdingan individual who has been convicted of a felonv committed in violation oItlte
laws of the State of Illinois: or to) reporting information as required by federal or state
statute re an__i1_n_l_i_vjdual who has been convicted ofa l?elonv committed in violatigyl
of t_he_laws of the State of Illinois.

     

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations on
January 18, 2012.

3163] 1 AN AMENDMENT TO POLICY FOR RESPONDING TO ICE DETAINERS
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Peter N. Silvestri and John P. Daley, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
POLICY FOR RESPONDING TO ICE DETAINERS

Sec. 46-37. Policy for responding to ICE detainers.

The Sheriff of Cook County shat-l m_ay decline ICE detainer requests
unless there is a written agreement with the federal government by which all costs incurred
by Cook County in complying with the ICE detainer shall be reimbursed.

  

tIhere shall be no expenditure of any County
resources or effort by on?duty County personnel for this purpose, except at the discretion
ofthe Sheriff of Cook County or as expressly provided within this Ordinance.

 

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

FEBRUARY 9, 2012

PAGES

(at) Any person who alleges a violation of this Ordinance may ?le a written
complaint for investigation with the Cook County Sheriff?s Of?ce of Professional Review.

Nothing in this Section shall prohibit. or be construed as prohibiting. the
Sheriff of Cook Countv from identifving and reporting anv person pursuarll to state and
federal law or regulation who is in cuslodv after being booked for the alleged coinlnissio_n
[elonv and is suspected ot?violating the civil provisions ot'anv statoor federal laws. In
addition, notliinglin this Section shall preclude anv countv department. agency, officer, or
einolovee __l'ronI reporting or cooperating with an request for information regarding?
individual who has been convicted of a felonv committed in violation of the laws oi~ the
State ofIllinois,

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective immediately upon adoption.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations on
January 18, 2012.

Commissioner Daley moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 316283 No Action Taken
Communication Number 31631 1 No Action Taken

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

Larry SuWhairmani -

Attest:

?l

lhd' ew liDeLeon, Secretary

 

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark
Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

Chau
Legislation and
intergovernmental Relations

County Building
118 N. Clark Street
Room 567

Chicago. IL 60602 Committee .
(312) 603-6383 Rulces and Administration
(312) 603-3622 (E) ommittee
ber
em

 

.
9 Criminal Justice Committee

Finance Committee

 

- - th - - Litigation Sub-Committee
meme, emce Commissmner 13 District Health and Hospitals Committee
820 Davis St, Ste. 104 - - Homeland Security and
mansion, .L 50201 Cook Cou nty Board of CommISSioners Emergency Management
(847) 864-1209 Committee
(847) 864-1445 Human Relations Committee

Pensions Subcommittee

Roads 8. Bridges Committee

Veterans Committee

Workforce. Job Development
and Training Committee

Zoning and Building
Committee

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Cook County Board of Commissioners
February 9, 2012

Documents to be included in the Record

 

1. Decision in Lngrid Buquer, et. V. City of Indianapolis, 2011 US. Dist. Lexis
68326 (8D. Ind. June 24, 2011)

2. Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attorney; dated July 26,
2011; re: Duty to Enforce ICE Detainers

3. Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attorney; dated September
14, 201 1; re: Board?s Budget Authority ICE Detaincr Ordinance

4. Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attorney; dated October 5,
2011; re: 11-335 Legitimate Law Enforcement Purpose Pursuant to 11-0-73

5. Letter from Cook County Sheriff Thomas Dart to Cook County Commissioner
Larry Suffredin; dated December 15, 2011

6. Letter from John Morton, Director of United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to Cook County President Toni Preckwinkle; dated January 4, 2012

7. Letter from Cook County President Toni Preckwinkle to John Morton, Director of
United States Homeland Security; dated January 19, 2012

8. Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attorney; dated January 12,
2012; re: 12-05: Sheriff?s Proposed Revisions to ICE Dctainer Ordinance

9. Letter from Hanover Park Village President Rodney Craig to Cook County
Commissioner Larry Suffredin; dated January 18, 2012

The 13'" District includes the following communities
49?1 8. 50'h Wards of the City of Chicago, the City of Evanston and the Villages of Glencoe. Glenview, Kenilworth.
Lincolnwood, Morton Grove, Niles, Skokie, Wilmette, and Winnetka

Printed on Recycled Paper

10. Letter from the Cook County Public Defender; dated February 1, 2012; Re:
Ordinance 46?37 and Proposed Amendments

11. Letter from Cook County Sheriff Thomas Dart to John Morton, Director of US.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement; dated January 20, 2012

Document 1

Decision in Ingrid Buquer, et. al. V. City of Indianapolis,
2011 U.S. Dist. Lexis 68326 (S.D. Ind. June 24, 2011)

 L?exisNexis?i

   

Page I

INGRID BUQUER, BERLIN URTIZ, and LOUISA ADAIR, on their own behalf
and on behalf of those similarly situated, Plaintiffs, vs. CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS,
et al., Defendants.



UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
INDIANA, INDIANAPOLIS DIVISION

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326

June 24, 2011, Decided
June 24, 2011, Filed

CASE SUMMARY:

OVERVIEW: Plaintiffs' motion for preliminary injunc-
tion was granted so that State of Indiana was enjoined
from enforcing the recently enacted laws in Indiana Code
34-28-82 and Indiana Code 
because the laws expressly
provided that law enforcement of?cers could arrest indi-
viduals for conduct that parties agreed was not criminal.

OUTCOME: Motions for preliminary injunctions were
granted.

LexisNexis(R) Headnotes

Immigration Law Enforcement State Enforcement
1] in certain limited situations, federal law permits
the delegation of authority to enforce civil immigration
law to state and local law enforcement. For example, the
Department of Homeland Security is permitted to enter
into written agreements with states or any political sub-
division of a state to allow appropriately trained and su-
pervised of?cers or employees of the state or subdivision
to perform certain immigration responsibilities. 8
U.S.C.S. ?1357(g)(l).

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests General Over-
view
Criminal Law Procedure Arrests Probable Cause

See Ind. Code 

Immigration Law >Admission General Overview
The Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.S.
110] et seq, contains provisions that set forth the con-
ditions under which a foreign national may be admitted
to and remain in the United States, establish civil penal-
ties and criminal sanctions for immigration violations,
and grant the Department of Homeland Security the dis-
cretion to place non?citizens into removal proceedings
for various actions. Unlawful presence in the United
States on its own is not a federal crime, although it can
lead to the civil remedy of removal. 8 U.S.C.S. 
1227(a)(1)(B), (C). Removal proceed-
ings take place within an administrative immigration
court system within the Department of Justice. 8. C. .R. 
[003.0 et seq.

Immigration Law Deportation Removal Admin?
istrative Proceedings Procedure

If the Attorney General of the United States issues
a warrant after removal proceedings have been initiated
against an individual under federal law, that person may
be arrested and detained pending a ?nal removal deci-
sion. 8 U.S.C.S. 1226(a). However, removal does not
occur in every case. After removal proceedings are in-
itiated, the noncitizen may still be released during the
pendency of removal proceedings. Under 8 U.S.C.S. 
1226(0), the individual may be released on bond or con-
ditional parole or be provided with work authorization. 8
U.S.C.S. 1226(a)(3). After a removal order is issued by

Page 2

201] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

an immigration Judge. non?citizen has the right to
seek reconsideration as Well as administrative and judi-
cial review ot'that determination and may be released on
bond until a linal determination is made. 8 ll
l229ai'tdij}. Even alter issuance of a ?nal removal or-
der, the individual may, in some circumstances, move to
reopen the removal proceedings. 8 U.S.C.S. 
l229a(c)(7). If the Attorney General fails to remove the
non-citizen within 90 days a?er the removal order be-
comes ?nal1 the individual is released from detention,
subject to supervision by the Attorney General. 8
{13111.51 55 iEJirn?j?}. Finally, in lieu of deportation, the
Attorney tieneral may allow an alien to voluntarily de-
part the United States during a predetermined period of
time. if Ulrit'lS. i229c.

Immigration Law Deportation Removal Admin-
istrative Proceedings Custody Bond

If federal or local law enforcement informs the
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement
that an alien is in custody on nonvimmigration
related charges, ICE may issue a detainer requesting that
the law enforcement agency hold the individual For up to
48 hours (not including weekend days and holidays)
beyond the time that the detainee would otherwise be
released in order to allow lCii to assume custody if it
chooses to do so. it (Ii-Tit. 3s" 28?. 7M). A deli-liner is not a
criminal warrant, but rather a voluntary request that the
law enforcement agency advise the Department of Ho?
meland Security prior to release of the alien in
order for DHS to arrange to assume custody. 8 C.F.R. 
287. The detainer automatically expires at the end of
the 48 hour period.

Immigration Law Deportation Removal Admin?
istrative Proceedings Procedure

Immigration Law Deportation Removal Grounds
?2 Criminal A ctivitv 3? Aggro lirtt'erl Felonies

[I-thS} The and Nationality Act, 8 USES.
51? Hill et seq. provides that an alien convicted of an ag?
gravated felony is subject to removal and may not re?
ceive asylum in the United States, become a citizen,
lawfully reenter the United States, or have removal or?
cancelled by the Attorney General. 6' 
il??i??lblixiildlt?t'il. t227 
l?lriwevcr. it is utter: unclear whether a pan
tieiilar crime constitutes an aggravated [elony under t'ed-
immigration law. "Aggravated felony" is de?ned
under it USES. ti ilillinjf?xijl, which encompasses 21
subsections, many of which themselves contain multiple
crimes. Thus, determining whether a particular crime
meets the definition is a comples analytical undertaking
one with which many courts routinely grapple as have

Executive Branch agencies and departments charged
with enforcing this law.

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests General Over-
view

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests Probable Cause
See Ind. Code 34-28-82.

Immigration Law Admission Visas Consular
Processing

Immigration Law Admission Visas Issuance
The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, to
which the United States is a signatory, provides that a
foreign consulate may issue travel documents, visas, or
other appropriate documents to protect and assist its citi-
zens in the foreign country. Consular identi?cation
documents are photo identi?cation cards issued by many
embassies and consulates including the United States to
encourage their citizens abroad to register with the con?
sulates so that they can receive standard consular servic-
es, be noti?ed if necessary, and be located upon inquiry
by relatives and authorities. The issuance of these identi?
?cation documents is a matter which the respective for-
eign governments closely supervise and manage.

Immigration Law Admission Visas Consular
Processing

Under the Vienna Convention on Consular Rela-
tions, 3 foreign national arrested or detained in the Unit?
ed States must be advised of his or her right to request
that appropriate consular of?cials be timely notified of
the individual's detention. Thus, individuals can use
consular identi?cation documents (CID) to alert federal,
state, and local law enforcement authorities of the need
to notify consular of?cials when assistance is required.
Cardholders also commonly use CIDs for identi?cation
purposes, such as with ?nancial institutions, law en-
forcement agencies, and state and local governments in
the United States, as well as for other transactions that
require photo identification, including cashing checks,
renting housing, or enrolling children in school, espe-
cially when no other forms of photo identi?cation are
available to them for their use.

Civil Procedure Remedies Injunctions Prelimi-
nary Temporary Injunctions

The grant of injunctive reliefis appropriate ifthe
moving party is able to demonstrate: a reasonable
likelihood of succeeding on the merits; (2) irreparable
harm if preliminary relief is denied; and (3) an inade-
quate remedy at law. If the moving party fails to demon?

Page 3

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

strate any one of these three threshold requirements, the
emergency relief must be denied. However, if these
threshold conditions are met, the court must then assess
the balance of harm and, where appropriate, also deter-
mine what effect the granting or denying of the injunc-
tion would have on nonparties the public interest.

Civil Procedure Remedies Injunctions Prelimi-
nary Temporary Injunctions

1] In determining whether to grant injunctive relief,
the district court must take into account all four of the
applicable factors and then exercise its discretion to ar-
rive at a decision based on the subjective evaluation of
the import of the various factors and a personal, intuitive
sense about the nature of the case. This process involves
engaging in what is called the sliding scale approach,
meaning that the more likely it is the plaintiff will sue-
ceed on the merits, the less balance of irreparable harms
need weigh toward its side; the less likely it is the plain-
tiff will succeed, the more the balance need weigh to?
wards its side. The sliding scale approach is not mathe-
matical in nature, rather it is more properly characterized
as subjective and intuitive, one which permits district
courts to weigh the competing considerations and mold
appropriate relief.

Civil Procedure Remedies Injunctions Prelimi-
nary Temporary Injunctions

To have standing to seek injunctive relief, a
plaintiff must show that he is under threat of suffering
injury in fact that is concrete and ,particularized; the
threat must be actual and imminent, not conjectural or
hypothetical; it must be fairly traceable to the challenged
action of the defendant; and it must be likely that a fa-
vorable judicial decision will prevent or redress the in-

jury.

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests Probable Cause
Ind. Code speci?cal-
ly authorizes the arrest of anyone for whom an officer
has probable cause to believe has been convicted of one
or more aggravated felonies. Ind. Code 
Whenever the Indiana General As-
sembly seeks to have the term conviction exclude con-
victions that have been reversed or vacated, it makes that
intention clear.

Constitutional Law The Judiciary Case or Contro-
versy Ripeness

The existence of a statute implies a threat to
prosecute and thus pre-enforcement challenges are prop?

er, because a probability of future injury counts as injury
for the purpose of standing.

Constitutional Law The Judiciary Case or Contro-
versy Ripeness

To determine whether a case is ripe for adjudi-
cation, a court must determine first, whether the relevant
issues are suf?ciently focused so as to permit judicial
resolution without ?irther factual development; and
second, whether the parties would suffer any hardship by
the postponement of judicial action. The first factor is
generally met where the issues posed are purely legal and
would not be clarified by administrative proceedings or
any other type of factual development.

Constitutional Law The Judiciary Case or Contro-
versy Ripeness

A plaintiff need not be required to undergo arrest
and prosecution before being able to challenge the con-
stitutionality of a statute. As long as there is a credible
threat of enforcement, the second prong of the ripeness
doctrine is satis?ed. Such a threat is credible when a
plaintiffs intended conduct runs afoul of a criminal sta-
tute and the Government fails to indicate af?rmatively
that it will not enforce the statute.

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests Probable Cause
An arrest is reasonable under US. Const. amend.
1V so long as there is probable cause to believe that some
criminal offense has been or is being committed. 1n eva-
luating a facial challenge to a state law, a federal court
must consider any limiting construction that a state court
or enforcement agency has proffered. However, a federal
court may not slice and dice a state law to save it; courts
must apply the United States Constitution to the law the
state enacted and not attribute to the state a law we could
have written to avoid the problem.

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests General Over-
view

Criminal Law Procedure Arrests Probable Cause
Ind. Code expressly
provides that state and local enforcement officers may
arrest individuals for conduct that is not criminal. The
statute contains no reference to US. Const. amend. IV
protections nor does it include a requirement that the
arrest powers granted to law enforcement officers under
Ind. Code be used only in
circumstances in which the officer has a separate, lawful
reason for the arrest. There is no mention of any re-

Page 4

201] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

quirement that the arrested person be brought forthwith
before ajudge for consideration ofdetention or release.

Constitutional Law Supremacy Clause Federal
Preemption

By virtue ofthe Supremacy Clause, it is a fun-
damental principle of the United States Constitution that
Congress has the power to preempt state law. Preemp-
tion, express or implied, is compelled whether Congress'
command is explicitly stated in the statute's language or
implicitly contained in its structure and purpose. In cases
in which Congress has not explicitly provided for
preemption in a given statute, state law must still yield in
two circumstances. First, when Congress intends federal
law to occupy the ?eld, state law in that area is
preempted. Even if Congress has not occupied the ?eld,
state law is preempted as well where it con?icts with
Federal law. Con?icts arise when compliance with both
federal and state regulations is a physical impossibility or
when state law stands as an obstacle to the accomplish-
ment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of
Congress. To determine whether obstacle preemption
exists, a court must cmpon its judgment, to be informed
by examining the federal statute as a whole and identify-
ing its purpose and intended effects.

Immigration Law Deportation Removal Grounds
Criminal Activity Aggravated Felonies

Federal law speci?es that the immigration pe-
nalties associated with aggravated felonies arise only if
the individual has been convicted of the offense. 8
USCS. Yet Ind. Code 
allows state and local law en-
forcement to arrest those who they have probable cause
to believe have merely been indicted for such an offense.
Considering that the determination of whether a crime
constitutes an i?Iggravatcd felony is otten such a complex
and confusing undertaking, and that there is no guidance
in Ind. Code liter/it?ll) as to how a state
or local of?cer should make that determination, the
power to arrest on that basis threatens serious abuses.
Regardless, authorizing the arrest of: individuals who
have been indicted but not yet convicted of an aggra-
vated felony runs counter to the federal intent to limit
such penalties. Even in cases where there has been a
conviction covered under Ind. Code 
ifthe federal government fully
resolves the issue of the alien's conviction and deter-
mines that no penalty will be imposed, a subsequent ar-
rest by state authorities directly con?icts with the federal
determination.

Constitutional Law The Presidency Foreign A ?airs
The executive branch's authority over matters of
foreign affairs is an implied constitutional power. The
exercise of the federal executive authority means that
state law must give way where there is evidence of clear
con?ict between the policies adopted by the two.

Constitutional Law Bill of Rights Fundamental
Rights Procedural Due Process Scope of Protection
Constitutional Law Equal Protection Scope of Pro-
tection

Under traditional due process and equal protec-
tion analysis, state action must be sustained as long as it
bears a rational relation to a legitimate governmental
interest.

Constitutional Law Equal Protection Full Equal
Bene?t

If the constitutional conception of equal protec-
tion of the laws means anything, it must at the very least
mean that a bare congressional desire to harm a politi-
cally unpopular group cannot constitute a legitimate go-
vernmental interest.

Civil Procedure Remedies Injunctions Prelimi-
nary Temporary Injunctions

When an alleged deprivation of a constitutional
right is involved, most courts hold that no further show-
ing of irreparable injury is necessary. Moreover, showing
irreparable harm is probably the most common method
of demonstrating that there is no adequate legal remedy.

Constitutional Law Supremacy Clause General
Overview

The public has a strong interest in the vindica-
tion of an individual?s constitutional rights. In such cir-
cumstances, the interest of preserving the Supremacy
Clause is paramount.

Civil Procedure Remedies Injunctions Prelimi-
nary Temporary Injunctions

Fed. R. Civ. P. 65(c) provides that the court may
issue a preliminary injunction only if the movant gives
security in an amount that the court considers proper to
pay the costs and damages sustained by any party found
to have been wrongfully enjoined or restrained. Under
appropriate circumstances bond may be excused, not?
withstanding the literal language of Rule 65(c).

Page 5

20]] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

COUNSEL: For INGRID BUQUER, BERLIN
URTIZ, LOUISA ADAIR, on their own behalf and on
behalf of those similarly situated, Plaintiffs: Andre I.
Segura, Lee Gelemt, Omar C. Jadwat, PRO HAC VICE,
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION FOUNDA-
TION RIGHTS PROJECTS, New
York, Angela Denise Adams, LEWIS KAPPES,
Indianapolis, Cecillia D. Wang, Katherine Desor?
meau, PRO HAC VICE, AMERICAN CIVIL 
TIES UNION FOUNDATION 
RIGHTS PROJECT, San Francisco, Gavin Minor
Rose, Jan P. Mensz, Kenneth J. Falk, ACLU OF INDI-
ANA, Indianapolis, Karen Tumlin, Linton Joaquin,
PRO HAC VICE, NATIONAL IMMIGRATION LAW
CENTER, Los Angles, CA.

For CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, Defendant: Jennifer
Haley, CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, CORPORA-
TION COUNSEL, Indianapolis, Justin F. Roebel,
CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS, OFFICE OF 
TION COUNSEL, Indianapolis, IN.

For MARION COUNTY PROSECUTOR, in his of?cial
capacity, JOHNSON COUNTY PROSECUTOR, in his
of?cial capacity, Defendants: Adam Clay, INDIANA
ATTORNEY GENERAL, Indianapolis, Betsy M.
Isenberg, Scott Leroy Barnhart, INDIANA OFFICE OF
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, Indianapolis, Tama-
ra Weaver, INDIANA ATTORNEY GENERAL, Indi-
anapolis, Wade Dunlap Fulford, Indiana At-
torney Genera], Indianapolis, IN.

For CITY OF FRANKLIN, Defendant: Robert Howard
Schafstall, CUTSINGER SCHAFSTALL, Franklin,
IN.

For JOHNSON COUNTY SHERIFF, in his of?cial ca?
pacity, Defendant: William W. Barrett, WILLIAMS
HEWITT BARRETT WILKOWSKI LLP, Green-
wood, IN.

For Amicus Curiae United Mexican States, Hughes So-
col Piers Resnick Dym, Ltd., Amicus: Jose J. Behar,
Joshua Karsh, Matthew J. Piers, PRO HAC VICE,
HUGHES SOCOL PIERS RESNICK DYM, LTD.,
Chicago, IL.

JUDGES: SARAH EVANS BARKER, United States
District Judge.

OPINION BY: SARAH EVANS BARKER

OPINION

ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

This matter is before the Court on Plaintiffs' Motion
for Preliminary Injunction [Docket No. ?led on May
26, 2011, pursuantto Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65
in the above-captioned cause. Plaintiffs seek to have en-
joined without bond two provisions of the recently
enacted Senate Enrolled Act 590, scheduled to go into
effect on July 1, 2011. Speci?cally, the two portions of
that law which Plaintiffs challenge are: Section 19 of
SEA 590, which amends Indiana Code 
by adding new sections 
authorizing state and local law enforcement of?cers to
make a warrantless arrest of a person when the
of?cer has a removal order issued for the person by an
immigration court, a detainer or notice of action issued
for the person by the United States Department of Ho-
meland Security, or has probable cause to believe the
person has been indicted for or convicted of one or more
aggravated felonies. Plaintiffs also challenge Section 18
of SEA 590, to be codi?ed as Indiana Code 34?28-82,
which creates a new infraction under Indiana law for any
person (other than a police of?cer) who knowingly or
intentionally offers or accepts a consular identi?cation
card as a valid form of identi?cation for any purpose.

The legislation under review here, as adopted by the
Indiana General Assembly, mirrors a spate of similar
laws recently enacted (and challenged in their respective
courts) by the states of Alabama, Georgia, South Caroli-
na, Utah and Arizona. Regarding each of these statutes,
the ostensible underlying purpose is the same: all
represent attempts by the states to offset in various ways
difficulties that have arisen within their jurisdictions
from the perceived failures of the federal government to
deal more effectively with the broad problem of
illegal immigration. In their attempts to fashion laws to
advance this purpose, these states have tended to impose
a variety of restrictions on immigrants -- some in this
country legally, some not -- and on businesses who
would hire them or conduct other commercial affairs
with such persons located or otherwise living within their
borders. Tacitly acknowledging that immigration matters
are primarily committed to the federal government to
regulate, the states' enactments re?ect what in some in?
stances appear to be tortuous attempts to carve out legal-
ly permissible roles that do not run afoul of federal juris-
dictional and constitutional requirements as well as the
principles of federal preemption. Unfortunately, insofar
as Indiana's efforts to carve out such a permissible role,
at least with regard to the two sections of the statute un?
der review here, their results have proven to be seriously
flawed and generally unsuccessful.

Plaintiffs' Complaint challenges the constitutionality
of these two sections of SEA 590. Their accompanying

Page 6

201] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

Motion for Preliminary Injunction seeks to have the
Court enjoin the State of Indiana from enforcing them
until a ?nal determination can be made by the 
Court both as to their constitutionality, arguing that the
challenged sections are not only unconstitutional under
the Fourth Amendment and due process provisions, and
because they run afoul of federal presumption principles
as attempts to regulate immigration, an exclusively fed-
eral concern. Oral arguments were heard on June 20,
2011. Having considered the parties' briefmg and oral
arguments, the undisputed documentary evidence, and
the controlling principles of law, the Court now
GRANTS Plaintiffs' motion for injunctive relief.

Factual Background

1. Federal Immigration Regulation

In 1952, Congress enacted the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act 66 Stat. 163, as amended, 8 US. C.
59 1101 et seq. "That statute established a 'comprehensive
federal statutory scheme for regulation of immigration
and naturalization' and set 'the terms and conditions of
admission to the country and the subsequent treatment of
aliens lawfully in the country." Chamber of Commerce of
US. v. Whiting, 131 1968, 1973, 179 L. Ed. 2d
1031, 1043 (2011 (quoting De Canas v. Bica, 424 US.
351, 353, 359, 96 S. Ct. 933, 47 L. .Ed. 2d 43 (1976)).
The INA empowers the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity the Department of Justice and the
Department of State, among other federal agencies,
to administer and enforce immigration law. Within DHS,
various sub-agencies, including the United States Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement the United
States Customs and Border Protection and the
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
are involved in this task.

In certain limited situations, federal law per-
mits the delegation of authority to enforce civil immigra-
tion law to state and local law enforcement. For example,
DHS is permitted to enter into written agreements
(known as ?287(g) agreements") with states or any polit?
ical subdivision of a state to allow appropriately trained
and supervised officers or employees of the state or sub-
division to perform certain immigration responsibilities.
8 USC. 1357(g)(1). It is undisputed that Indiana has
no such agreement with the federal government.

II. Section 19

Section 19 of the Act amends Indiana Code 
by adding new sections
which provide as follows:

A law enforcement officer may ar-
rest a person when the officer has:



(11) a removal order
issued for the person by an
immigration court;

(12) a detainer or no-
tice of action for the person
issued by the United
States Department of Ho-
meland Security; or

(13) probable cause to
believe that the person has
been indicted for or con-
victed of one (1) or more
aggravated felonies (as de-
?ned in 8 (1.8. C.
1101(a)(43)).

An understanding of the material phrases incorporated in
this statute is necessary; that discussion ensues:

A. Removal Order

The INA contains provisions which, inter
alia, set forth the conditions under which a foreign na-
tional may be admitted to and remain in the United
States, establish civil penalties and criminal sanctions for
immigration violations, and grant DHS the discretion to
place non?citizens into removal proceedings for various
actions. See, 8 U.S.C. 1181-1182, 1184, 1225,
122 7-1229, 1306, 1324-25. Unlawful presence in the
United States on its own is not a federal crime, although
it can lead to the civil remedy of removal. 8 USC. 
1227(a)(1)(B), (C). Removal proceed-
ings take'place within an administrative immigration
court system within the DOJ. 8 C.F.R. 1003.0, et seq.

If the Attorney General of the United States
issues a warrant after removal proceedings have been
initiated against an individual under federal law, that
person may be arrested and detained pending a
final removal decision. 8 USC. 1226(0). However,
removal does not occur in every case. After removal
proceedings are initiated, the noncitizen may still be re-
leased during the pendency of removal proceedings, or
even after the removal order has been issued by an im?
migration judge. Under 8 1226(a), the individu-
al may be released on bond or conditional parole, or, in
some cases, be provided with work authorization. Id. 
1226(a)(3). After a removal order is issued by an immi-
gration judge, the non-citizen has the right to seek recon-
sideration as well as administrative and judicial review

Page 7

201] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

of that determination and may be released on bond until
a ?nal determination is made. 8 USC. 1229a(c)(5).
Even after issuance of a ?nal removal order, the individ?
ual may, in some circumstances, move to reopen the re?
moval proceedings, which may stay his/her removal
pending ?nal disposition of the motion. Id. 
1229a(c)(7). If the Attorney General fails to remove the
non-citizen within ninety days after the removal order
becomes final, the individual is released from detention,
subject to supervision by the Attorney General. 8 USC.
1231(a)(3). Finally, in lieu of deportation, the
Attorney General may allow an alien to voluntarily de-
part the United States during a predetermined period of
time. 8 USC. 1229c.

B. Detainer

If federal or local law enforcement informs
ICE that an alien is in custody on non-immigration re?
lated charges, ICE may issue a detainer requesting that
the law enforcement agency hold the individual for up to
48 hours (not including weekend days and holidays)
beyond the time that the detainee would otherwise be
released in order to allow ICE to assume custody, if it
chooses to do so. 8 C.F.R. 287. A detainer is not a
criminal warrant, but rather a voluntary request that the
law enforcement agency "advise prior to release
of the alien, in order for to arrange to assume
custody." Id. 287. The detainer automatically ex?
pires at the end of the 48-hour period. Id.

C. Notice of Action

The standard form that federal immigration authori?
ties utilize to inform individuals with pending petitions
of any sort before the agency of the status of their cases
is known as the Notice of Action Form, Form 1-797. This
form may be used to notify a person of a wide variety of
administrative actions, including that a petition or
application with the agency has been received, that a
decision has been made on a petition or application, and
may even be used to notify an individual that he or she
has been granted lawful status. Because an 1?797 form is
essentially simply a communication between the agency
and the petitioner issued for a wide range of administra-
tive reasons, receipt of a notice of action is not a reliable
indicator of an individual's immigration status, or wheth-
er an individual has engaged in illegal activity, or the
circumstances surrounding the individual's presence in
the United States.

D. Aggravated Felonies

The INA provides that an alien convicted of
an "aggravated felony" is subject to removal and may not
receive asylum in the United States, become a citizen,
lawfully reenter the United States, or have removal or-

ders cancelled by the Attorney General. 8 USC. 
1158(b)(2)(r4)(i1), 1227 
1229b(a)(3). However, it is often unclear whether a par-
ticular crime constitutes an aggravated felony under fed-
eral immigration law. "Aggravated felony" is de?ned
under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43), which encompasses 21
subsections, many of which themselves contain 
multiple crimes. Thus, determining whether a particular
crime meets the de?nition is a complex analytical under-
taking, one with which many courts routinely grapple as
have Executive Branch agencies and departments
charged with enforcing this law.

111. Section 18

Section 18 of the Act, to be codified as Indi-
ana Code 34-28-82, provides:

Chapter 8.2. Offenses Related to Con-
sular Identi?cation

Sec. 1. As used in this chapter, "con-
sular identi?cation" means an identi?ca-
tion, other than a passport, issued by the
government of a foreign state for the pur-
pose of providing consular services in the
United States to a national of the foreign
state.

See. 2. This section does not ap?
ply to a law enforcement of?cer who is
presented with a consular identi?cation
during the investigation of a crime.

Except as otherwise provided un?
der federal law, a person who knowingly
or intentionally offers, accepts, or records
a consular identi?cation as a valid form of
identi?cation for any purpose commits a
Class infraction. However, the person
commits:

(I) a Class infraction
for a second offense; and

(2) a Class A infraction
for a third or subsequent
offense.

Consular Identi?cation Documents 

The Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations to which the United States is a sig-
natory, provides, inter alia, that a foreign consulate may

Page 8

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

issue travel documents, visas, or other appropriate doc-
uments to protect and assist its citizens in the foreign
country. Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and
Optional Protocol on Disputes, Art. T1.A.S.
No. 6820, 2] UST. 77, 1969 WL 97928 (Dec. 14, 1969).
Consular identi?cation documents are photo
identi?cation cards issued by many embassies and con-
sulates, including the United States, ?to encourage their
citizens abroad to register with the consulates so that
they can receive standard consular services, be noti?ed if
necessary, and be located upon inquiry by relatives and
authorities." Congressional Research Service, Consular
Identi?cation Cards: Domestic and Foreign Policy Im-
plications, the Mexican Case, and Related Legislation at
(2005), available at
The
Court has been informed that the issuance ofthese iden-
ti?cation documents is a matter which the respective
foreign governments closely supervise and man-
age.

Under the VCCR, a foreign national 
arrested or detained in the United States must be advised
of his or her right to request that appropriate consular
of?cials be timely noti?ed of the individual's detention.
Thus, individuals can use CIDs to alert federal, state, and
local law enforcement authorities of the need to notify
consular officials when assistance is required. Cardhold-
ers also commonly use CIDs for identi?cation purposes,
such as with ?nancial institutions, law enforcement
agencies, and state and local governments in the United
States, as well as for other transactions that require photo
identi?cation, including cashing checks, renting housing,
or enrolling children in school, especially when no other
forms of photo identi?cation are available to them for
their use.

The parties stipulate that limitations or restrictions
on the use of these documents in connection with of?cial
state matters is a permissible exercise of state govern-
mental authority. As for the non-state governmental uses,
however, the parties here disagree as to their lawfulness.

IV. Background on the Named Plaintiffs

Ingrid Buquer is a Mexican citizen who resides in
Johnson County (Indiana) and also spends a signi?cant
amount of time in Marion County. She has ap-
plied for a U-Visa as a victim of, or a witness to, a vio-
lent crime, which, if granted, will allow her to remain in
the United States. See 8 U.S.C. She
has received an 1-797 Notice of Action to inform her of
the pendency of her U-Visa application. Ms. Buquer has
also received a CID from the Mexican Consulate in In-
dianapolis, which she uses in both Johnson and Marion
Counties for many purposes, such as banking and shop-
ping as well as in other situations in which identi?cation

is required. She has at times presented her when
receiving services at the Mexican Consulate as proof of
her Mexican citizenship. Ms. Buquer testi?ed by af?da-
vit that she is unable to obtain an identi?cation card or
license fromrthe State of Indiana. Buquer Aff. 1] 8. Plain-
tiffs contend that, because Ms. Buquer has received a
Notice of Action, she will be subject to warrantless arrest
pursuant to Section 19 when and if the law goes into
effect on July 1, 2011. Additionally, under Section 18,
effective July 1, 2011, she will not be able to use her
CID for identi?cation without being subject to a civil
infraction.

Louisa Adair is a citizen of Nigeria who currently
resides in Marion County. Ms. Adair had a remov?
al order issued against her in 1996, but she is currently
released by ICE on an Order of Supervision, under which
she reports to ICE every six months. She has been issued
a valid work authorization document ?om DHS and she
receives a 1-797 Notice of Action each time she applies
to renew her employment authorization card. Ms. Adair
has ?led a Motion to Reopen and Terminate Removal
Proceedings and has also made a formal request that the
ICE Chief Counsel's of?ce exercise its prosecutorial dis-
cretion and join in her in that motion. If her request is
granted, she will be eligible to apply for lawful perma-
nent residency because her mother is a citizen of the
United States and Ms. Adair possesses an approved and
current 1-130 visa petition. Ms. Adair also received an
1?797 Notice of Action approving the 1-130 petition that
establishes her relationship to her citizen-mother. Plain-
tiffs contend that, because Ms. Adair has received both a
removal order and various Notice of Action forms, she
will be subject to warrantless arrest by Indiana law en?
forcement of?cers when and if Section 19 goes into ef-
fect on July 1, 2011.

Berlin Urtiz is a citizen of Mexico who cur-
rently resides in Marion County. He has been a lawful
permanent resident of the United States since 2001. In
2004, Mr. Urtiz was convicted of theft in Johnson Coun-
ty and sentenced to two years in prison, which was sub?
sequently suspended to probation. This crime was in-
itially determined to be an aggravated felony under 8
U.S.C. and, in 2010, he was taken into
custody by ICE and detained for four months pending
removal. However, in September 2010, he was granted
post-conviction relief. His theft conviction was vacated
in November 2010 and he was re-sentenced for the mis-
demeanor offense of conversion, which does not qualify
as an aggravated felony. Currently, there are no removal
proceedings pending against Mr. Urtiz and he remains a
law?il permanent resident, but Plaintiffs?contend that,
inasmuch as he has been convicted of an aggravated fe?
lony in the past, he will be subject to warrantless arrest

Page 9

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

by Indiana law enforcement of?cers on this basis when
and if Section I9 goes into effect on July 1,2011.

Legal Analysis

1. Standard of Review

The grant of injunctive relief is appropriate
if the moving party is able to demonstrate: a reasona-
ble likelihood of succeeding on the merits; (2)
irreparable harm if preliminary relief is denied; and (3)
an inadequate remedy at law. Girl Scouts of Manitou
Council, Inc. v. Girl Scouts of the United States of
America, Inc, 549 F.3d 1079, 1086 (7th Cir. 2008). If
the moving party fails to demonstrate any one of these
three threshold requirements, the emergency relief must
be denied. Id. However, ifthese threshold conditions are
met, the Court must then assess the balance of harm 
the harm to Plaintiffs if the injunction is not issued
against the harm to Defendant if it is issued -- and, where
appropriate, also determine what effect the granting or
denying of the injunction would have on nonparties (the
public interest). Id.

In determining whether to grant injunctive
relief, the district court must take into account all four of
these factors and then "exercise its discretion 'to arrive at
a decision based on the subjective evaluation of the im-
port of the various factors and a personal, intuitive sense
about the nature of the case." Id. (quoting Lawson Prod-
ucts, Inc. v. Avnet, Inc, 782 F.2d 1429, 1436 (7th Cir.
1986)). This process involves engaging in what is called
the "sliding scale" approach, meaning that "the
more likely it is the plaintiff will succeed on the merits,
the less balance of irreparable harms need weigh toward
its side; the less likely it is the plaintiff will succeed, the
more the balance need weigh towards its side." Abbott
Laboratories v. Mead Johnson 971 F.2d 6, 12
7th Cir. 1992) (citations omitted). The sliding scale ap-
proach "is not mathematical in nature, rather 'it is more
properly characterized as subjective and intuitive, one
which permits district courts to weigh the competing
considerations and mold apprOpriate relief.? Ty, Inc. v.
Jones Group, Inc., 237 F.3d 891, 895-96 (7th Cir. 200])
(quoting Abbott Laboratories, 971 F.2d at 12).

II. Likelihood of Success on the Merits
A. Section 19

1. Standing

Defendants initially contend that all three named
Plaintiffs lack standing to sue, having failed to show that
they are under threat of suffering any injury because they
have failed to establish with certainty that they will be
subject to arrest under Section 19 when and if it becomes

effective. To have standing to seek injunctive
relief, "a plaintiff must show that he is under threat of
suffering 'injury in fact' that is concrete and particula-
rized; the threat must be actual and imminent, not
conjectural or hypothetical; it must be fairly traceable to
the challenged action of the defendant; and it must be
likely that a favorable judicial decision will prevent or
redress the injury." Summers v. Earth Island Institute,
555 US. 483, 555 US. 488, 129 1142, 1149, 173 L.
Ed. 2d 1 (2009) (citing Friends of Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw
Environmental Servs. (TOC), Inc, 528 US. 167, 180-81,
120 S. Ct. 693, 145 L. Ed. 2d 610 (2000)).

Mr. Urtiz: Defendants argue that Mr. Urtiz lacks
standing to challenge the constitutionality of Section 19
because he has neither been indicted for nor convicted of
an aggravated felony as Plaintiffs allege.I Speci?cally,
Defendants contend that, because all but two days of Mr.
Urtiz's court?ordered two-year sentence in the Indiana
Department of Correction was suspended to probation,
he fails to meet the one-year minimum term of impri-
sonment required for a theft offense to constitute an ag?
gravated felony under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43). However,
the applicable federal statute de?nes "term of imprison-
ment" to include "the period of incarceration or con?ne?
ment ordered by a court of law regardless of any suspen-
si0n of the imposition or execution of that imprisonment
or sentence in whole or in part." 8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(48)(B) (emphasis added). This de?nition applies
regardless of whether the convimion Was entered before,
on, or after September 30, ?.196, the effective date ofthe
INA. 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43). Thus, Mr. Urtiz?s two-year
sentence exceeds the one-year threshold required for a
theft conviction to constitute an aggravated felony, not-
withstanding the fact that nearly the entire sentence was
suspended to probation.

1 As laid out above, pursuant to Indiana Code
a law enforcement of?cer
may arrest a person when the of?cer has "proba-
ble cause to believe that the person has been in?
dicted for or convicted of one (I) or more aggra?
vated felonies (as de?ned in 8 US. C. 


Defendants also argue that Mr. Urtiz does not fall
within the terms of Section 19's proscriptions for the
additional reason that his conviction for an aggravated
felony was subsequently vacated and reduced to a mis?
demeanor. However, Section 19 speci?cally
authorizes the arrest of anyone for whom an of?cer has
probable cause to believe "has been convicted of one
(I) or more aggravated felonies." IND. CODE 
(emphasis added). As Plaintiffs 
note, the use ofthe past participle in the statute implies
that this provision applies as long as the individual was

Page 10

201] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

convicted at any time in the past. Section 19 makes no
distinctions as to convictions that are later overturned or
expunged. Clearly, whenever the Indiana General As-
sembly has sought to have the term "conviction? exclude
convictions that have been reversed or vacated, it has
made that intention clear. See, IND. CODE 
(convictions that have been reversed, vacated, or set
aside do not qualify for statute disqualifying a person
convicted ofa felony from assuming of being a candidate
for elected of?ce). For these reasons, we ?nd that Mr.
Urtiz will be subject to arrest under 
when and if Section 19 becomes effective.

Ms. Adair and Ms. Buquer: Ms. Adair has re-
ceived a removal order from immigration. Defendants
argue that Ms. Adair nonetheless lacks standing to chal-
lenge Indiana Code which allows an
officer to arrest an individual for whom a removal order
has been issued by an immigration court, because her
removal order was subsequently "superseded" by an Or?
der of Supervision. Defendants' characterization is in
error, however, because, rather. than superseding
a removal order, an order of supervision is issued "pend?
ing removal" and merely imposes conditions on an indi?
vidual?s release in cases where the person neither leaves
nor is removed within the statutory period. See 8 U.S.C.
1231(a)(3). Thus, although Ms. Adair has received an
order of supervision, there is no evidence that her re?
moval order is no longer current and in?force. Accor?
dingly, she meets the de?nition of individuals who are
subject to arrest under since she has
"a removal order issued for [her] by an immigration
court."

Defendants argue that neither Ms. Adair nor Ms.
Buquer has standing to challenge Indiana Code 
because the notices of action that they
each received are "benign" and further, the Court must
assume that Section 19 would only be enforced against
those with "non?benign" notices of action.2 However, 
permits the arrest of any person who
has a "notice of action issued by the United States
Department of Homeland Security," making no distinc-
tion between benign and nonbenign notices nor does the
statute (or Defendants for that matter) indicate what con-
stitutes a non?benign notice of action. It is undis-
puted that both Ms. Adair and Ms. Buquer possess no-
tices of action issued by DHS and nothing in the plain
language of the statute excludes their notices of action
from inclusion within the terms of Section 19. Thus, we
find that both Ms. Adair and Ms. Buquer will be subject
to arrest when and if Section 19 becomes effective on
July 1, 2011 suf?cient to satisfy the requirements of
standing.

2 The terms "benign" and "non-benign" do not
appear in the statute; their use here re?ects the
adversarial effort by defense counsel to salvage
their standing arguments.

It is true that none of the Plaintiffs has yet suffered a
direct injury based on Section 19 because, obviously, the
statute is not yet in effect. However, it is well established
that "the existence of a statute implies a threat to
prosecute [and thus] pre?enforcement challenges are
proper, because a probability of future injury counts as
'injury' for the purpose of standing." Bauer v. Shepard,
620 F.3d 704, 708 (7th Cir. 2010) (citations omitted).
Interestingly, Defendants have argued that the authoriza-
tions given police of?cers to effect arrests of persons
under these provisions may never be enforced,
suggesting that Plaintiffs are thus not at risk or otherwise
injured until such time as they are actually arrested. We
reasonably assume that the Indiana General Assembly
intended this law to be enforced in accordance with its
authorizations when it was enacted. Accordingly, be?
cause Plaintiffs have established that they fall within the
de?nition of those individuals who will be subject to
arrest if and when_Section 19 becomes effective on July
their standing to bring this action seeking in?
junctive relief has been established.

2. Ripeness

In related fashion, Defendants maintain that Plain-
tiffs' challenge to Section 19 is not ripe for adjudication.
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs are unable to point to a
Speci?c threat of the application of the Act, and, because
the nature and scope of its application have not yet been
developed, any determination by the Court regarding its
constitutionality would be premature.

To determine whether a case is ripe for ad?
judication, a court must determine "?rst, whether the
relevant issues are suf?ciently focused so as to permit
judicial resolution without further factual development;
and second, whether the parties would suffer any
hardship by the postponement of judicial action." Triple
Land?lls, Inc. v. Bd. of Comm 'rs of Fountain County,
Ind, 977 F.2d 287, 289 (7th Cir. 1992) (citations omit-
ted). The ?rst factor is generally met where "[t]he issues
posed are purely legal and would not be clarified by
administrative proceedings or any other type of factual
development." 1d. The parties here agree that, at least at
the preliminary injunction stage, the Fourth Amendment
and preemption issues presented to the Court are purely
legal rather than factual issues. Accordingly, this first
factor is met.

Plaintiffs argue that the second factor is also met
because, absent judicial action, they face the threat of
arrest when and if Section 19 becomes effective on July

Page 11

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

1, 2011. Defendants rejoin that, because the scope and
application of Section 19 has not yet been developed,
Plaintiffs' assertion that they will be subject to arrest is
nothing more than speculation based on the assumption
that a non-party (a state or local law enforcement of?cer)
will perform a wholly discretionary act, to wit, the arrest
of one of the Plaintiffs, based solely on the authority
granted by Section 19.

Courts have long upheld pre-enforcement 
challenges to various civil and criminal statutes despite
the fact that the discretionary authority of government
of?cials is present in virtually all such statutes, and it is
well?established that a plaintiff need not be re?
quired to undergo arrest and prosecution before being
able to challenge the constitutionality of a statute. See,
Babbit v. UF Nat?l Union, 442 US. 289, 298, 99
S. Ct. 2301, 60 L. Ed 2d 895 (I979) does not
have to await the consummation of a threatened injury to
obtain preventive relief") (citation and quotation omit-
ted); Ste??el v. Thompson, 415 US. 452, 459, 94 S. Ct.
1209, 39 L. Ed. 2d 505 (1974) is not necessary that
petitioner ?rst expose himself to actual arrest or prosecu?
tion to be entitled to challenge a statute that he claims
deters the exercise of his constitutional rights"); Com-
modity Trend Serv., Inc. v. Commodity Futures Trading
Comm'n, 149 F.3d 679, 687 (7th Ctr. 1998) ("It is not
necessary that a plaintiff expose itself to actual arrest
or prosecution").

As long as there is a credible threat of enforcement,
the second prong of the ripeness doctrine is satis?ed.
Such a threat is credible "when a plaintiffs intended
conduct runs afoul of a criminal statute and the Govem-
ment fails to indicate af?rmatively that it will not
enforce the statute." Commodity Trend Serv., I 49 F.3d at
687 (citing Virginia v. American Booksellers Ass?n, Inc.,
484 US. 383, 393, 108 S. Ct. 636, 98 L. Ed. 2d 782
(1988) (emphasis in original)). Here, for the reasons
deemed applicable to resolving the standing issue, Plain?
tiffs have shown that they fall within the ambit of those
who will be subject to arrest under Section 19. Moreover,
neither party has pointed to evidence to establish, nor is
there anything in the statute or legislative history to sug?
gest, that Section 19 will not be enforced as written.

This case is distinguishable from the circumstances
presented in Indiana Right to Life, Inc. v. Shepard, 507
F.3d 545 (7th Cir. 2007), where the Seventh Circuit held
that the issues presented were not ripe for adjudication
because there was no evidence of a real threat of en-
forcement of the challenged provisions. In that case, the
plaintiffs were able to point to evidence that the provi-
sions at issue had never been enforced in the ten years of
their existence. No similar evidence has been presented
here to show that Section 19, having now been enacted,
will not be enforced. Given the concerns and purposes

underlying this statute and informing the decision
of the Indiana General Assembly to enact this law and in
light of the heightened political rhetoric accompanying
public debates on issues of immigration policy across
Indiana and elsewhere, it is reasonable to assume that,
armed with these new and expanded powers, state law
enforcement of?cials will undertake to enforce them.
Accordingly, we ?nd that Plaintiffs have alleged an ac-
tual and credible fear that Section 19 will be enforced
against them, should the statute become effective on July
1, 2011. For these reasons, we hold that Plaintiffs' chal-
lenge is ripe for adjudication.

3. Fourth Amendment and Due Process Issues

Section 19 authorizes state and local law enforce-
ment of?cers to effect warrantless arrests for matters that
are not crimes. Defendants concede that nothing under
Indiana law makes criminal the receipt of a removal or-
der, a notice of action or detainer, or a person's having
been indicted for or convicted of an aggravated felony.
Defs.? Resp. at 12. Defendants also concede that arrests
based solely on Section 19 "could potentially be in viola?
tion of the Fourth Amendment." Id. at 3. Nevertheless,
Defendants argue that, because Plaintiffs have
raised a facial challenge to the statute, the Court must
presume that government of?cials will apply Section 19
in a constitutional manner.

arrest is reasonable under the Fourth
Amendment so long as there is probable cause to believe
that some criminal offense has been or is being commit-
ted." Fox v. Hayes, 600 F.3d 819, 837 (7th Cir. 2010)
(emphasis in original) (citations omitted). It is true that,
evaluating a facial challenge to a state law, a feder-
al court must consider any limiting construction that a
state court or enforcement agency has proffered.? Ward
v. Rock Against Racism, 491 US. 781, 795-96, 109 S. Ct.
2746, 105 L. Ed. 2d 661 (1989) (quoting Ho?man Es?
tates v. The Flipside, Ho?man Estates, Inc, 455 US.
489, 494 n.5, 102 S. Ct. 1186, 71 L. Ed. 2d 362 (1982)).
However, "a federal court may not slice and dice a state
law to 'save' it; we must apply the Constitution to the law
the state enacted and not attribute to the state a law we
could have written to avoid the problem." Pharma-
cies, Inc. v. American Home Products, Corp, 962 F.2d
728, 730 (7th Cir. 1992) (citations omitted). Here, De-
fendants maintain that the Court is obligated to presume
that the arrest provisions set forth in Section 19 would be
applied constitutionally, that is, in accordance
with the Fourth Amendment and due process require-
ments, and thus that these expanded arrest powers would
be utilized only in conjunction with an otherwise lawful
arrest.

We ?nd this interpretation entirely fanciful, howev?
er, given that it completely ignores the plain language of

Page 12

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

the statute. Section 19 expressly provides that
state and local enforcement of?cers "may arrest" indi-
viduals for conduct that all parties stipulate and agree is
not criminal. The statute contains no reference to Fourth
Amendment protections nor does it include a requirement
that the arrest powers granted to law enforcement of?c-
ers under Section 19 be used only in circumstances in
which the of?cer has a separate, lawful reason for the
arrest. Moreover, accepting Defendants' proposed con?
struction would, in effect, read the statute out of exis-
tence. Apart from the exclusion of Fourth Amendment
requirements regarding probable cause to arrest, Section
19 bestows no authority on law enforcement of?cers
beyond the power to arrest for the noncriminal conduct
enumerated therein, leaving a deafening silence as to
what happens to the arrestee post his arrest. There is no
mention of any requirement that the arrested per?
son be brought forthwith before a judge for consideration
of detention or release. There is in fact a complete void
within the new statute regarding all other due process
protections. Our acceptance of Defendants' theory, based
on their seemingly desperate effort to save it, would be to
require the Court to cunstrue it contrary to its plain lan-
guage, which clearly authorizes law enforcement of?-
cials to arrest an individual without regard to whether
that individual was already subject to a lawful arrest.
Such an interpretation, apart from being based on noth-
ing within the text of the statute itself, would render Sec-
tion 19 completely meaningless. We cannot and shall not
interpret a statute in such an unprincipled fashion. United
States v. Berkos, 543 F.3d 392, 396 (7th Cir. 2008).

In short, if the Court were to accept Defendants'
proposed construction of the arrest powers provision, it
would entail a radical rewriting of Section 19, which the
Court is not empowered to do. Even if such broad inter?
pretive powers were possible, the construction Defen-
dants have proposed would be entirely untenable be-
cause, as we have noted above, it would render the chal?
lenged statute meaningless. Accordingly, we ?nd
that Plaintiffs have established that they are likely to
succeed on the merits of their claim that Section 19 is
susceptible to only one interpretation, to wit, that it au-
thorizes the warrantless arrest of persons for matters and
conduct that are not crimes. Because such power contra?
venes the Fourth Amendment, Section 19 would be un-
constitutional.J

3 Defendants make a passing argument that it
is as yet undetermined whether the Fourth
Amendment even applies to undocumented aliens.
However, we read the caselaw to say otherwise.
Following the Supreme Court's decision in 1m?
migration and Naturalization Service v. Lo-
pez-Mendoza, 468 US. 1032, 104 S. Ct. 3479, 82
L. Ed. 2d 778 (1984), in which the Court ac-

cepted the principle that the Fourth Amendment
does apply to undocumented individuals, courts,
including the Seventh Circuit, routinely apply the
Fourth Amendment in cases involving undocu-
mented aliens. See, United States v. Quinta-
na, 623 F.3d 1237, 1239 (8th Cir. 2010); United
States v. Villegas, 495 F.3d 761 (7th Cir. 2007).

4. Preemption

Plaintiffs are also likely to succeed in establishing
that Section 19 is preempted by federal law. By
virtue of the Supremacy Clause, it is fundamental
principle of the Constitution that Congress has
the power to preempt state law." Crosby v. Nat'l Foreign
Trade Council, 530 US. 363, 372, 120 S. Ct. 2288, 147
L. Ed. 2d 352 (2000) (citations omitted). Preemption,
express or implied, ?is compelled whether Congress'
command is explicitly stated in the statute's language or
implicitly contained in its structure and purpose." Jones
v. Rath Packing Ca, 430 US. 519, 525, 97 S. Ct. 1305.
51 L. Ed. 2d 604 (1977) (citations omitted). In cases in
which Congress has not explicitly provided for preemp-
tion in a given statute, state law must still yield in two
circumstances. First, "[w]hen Congress intends federal
law to 'occupy the ?eld,' state law in that area is
preempted." Crosby, 530 US. at 372. Even if Congress
has not occupied the ?eld, state law is preempted as well
where it con?icts with federal law. Con?icts arise when
"compliance with both federal and state regulations is a
physical impossibility or when state law stands as an
obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full
purposes and objectives of Congress." Fid. Fed. Sav. 
Loan Ass?n v. de la Cuesta, 458 US. 141, 153, 102 S. Ct.
3014, 73 L. Ed. 2d 664 (1982) (internal quotations and
citations omitted). To determine whether "obstacle"
preemption exists, a court must employ its
"judgment, to be informed by examining the federal sta-
tute as a whole and identifying its purpose and intended
effects." Crosby, 530 US. at 3 73.

Defendants argue that Section 19 is not preempted
because it does not constitute a regulation of immigration
or a usurpation of federal authority, but.merely "provides
guidance to law enforcement of?cers as to when they
'may' arrest," giving "Indiana of?cers the discretion to
assist federal enforcement of immigration laws." Defs.?
Resp. at 15. However, Defendants have failed to point to
any authority allowing states to sua sponte assist the fed-
eral government in enforcing immigration laws nor is
there evidence that Indiana has entered into a 287(g)
agreement with the federal government that might allow
it to render such assistance. Moreover, the guidance the
statute provides authorizes state and local law enforce-
ment to arrest in circumstances far broader than those in
which Congress has allowed state and local of?cers to

Page 13

2011 US Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

arrest immigrants, (8 US. C. 1252c),? and, in fact, au-
thorizes a much broader warrantless arrest power than
even federal of?cers are given under federal law. 8
U.S.C. We are not aware ofnor has
either party pointed to an INA provision indicating that
Congress intended state and local law enforcement of?c-
ers to retain greater authority to effectuate a warrantless
arrest than federal immigration officials.

4 Pursuant to 8 US. C. 12526, state and local
of?cers are given the authority, "to the extent
permitted by relevant State and local law," to ar-
rest and detain an individual who:

(1) is an alien illegally present
in the United States; and

(2) has previously been con-
victed of a felony in the United
States and deported or left the
United States after such convic-
tion,

but only after the State or 10-
cal law enforcement of?cials ob?
tain appropriate con?rmation from
the Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service of the status of such
individual and only for such pe-
riod of time as may be required for
the Service to take the individual
into Federal custody for purposes
of deporting or removing the alien
from the United States.

5 Under 8 U.S.C. 135 federal of?cers
are authorized to arrest without a warrant any
alien:

who in his presence or view is
entering or attempting to enter the
United States in violation of any
law or regulation made in pur-
suance of law regulating 
the admission, exclusion, expul-
sion, or removal of aliens, or to
arrest any alien in the United
States, if he has reason to believe
that the alien so arrested is in the
United States in violation of any
such law or regulation and is like-
ly to escape before a warrant can
be obtained for his arrest, but the
alien arrested shall be taken with-

out unnecessary delay for exami-
nation before an of?cer of the
Service having authority to ex-
amine aliens as to their right to
enter or remain in the United
States.

It is true that state laws addressing legitimate local
interests that only indirectly touch on immigration mat-
ters are not preempted. See DeCanas, 424 US. at 355-57
(superseded by statute on other grounds). Here, however,
Defendants have failed to identify a specific state or local
interest that is addressed by allowing the warrantless
arrest (without any instructions as to what is to happen
with the arrestee thereafter) of any individual who has
received a detainer order, a notice of action, or a removal
order from the federal government or who has ever been
indicted for or convicted of an aggravated felony, none
of which necessarily indicates that the individual is sub?
ject to federal detention. Far ?'om having an in-
direct impact on immigration, it is reasonable to predict
that many such arrests authorized under Section 19 will
be in direct contravention of "the carefully calibrated
scheme of immigration enforcement that Congress has
adopted." United States v. Arizona, F.3d 2011
US. App. LEXIS 7413, 2011 WL 1346945, at *17 (9th
Cir. Apr. 11, 2011-).

For example, Section 19 authorizes arrest for any
individual in receipt of a removal order. However, hav-
ing a prior removal order is not proof that the person is
subject to detention by federal authorities. In Ms. Adair?s
situation, although she has a removal order issued by the
federal government, with the permission of federal au-
thorities she has been permitted to remain free from cus-
tody and to obtain work authorization. In such circums-
tances where the federal government has exercised its
discretion to release an individual like Ms. Adair, who
has had a removal order issued, the subsequent arrest of
that person by Indiana law enforcement of?cers directly
con?icts with the federal decision, obviously and se-
riously interfering with the federal government's author-
ity in the ?eld of immigration enforcement-

The conflict is even more apparent with re?
gard to Section 19's authorization for arrest of individu?
als who have been issued a notice of action. Notices of
action are inherently non-criminal and receipt of such a
form generally merely acknowledges that the individual's
information dealing with immigration matters has been
received by INS or that an immigration decision has been
made. Such communications could be as innocuous as
informing the recipient that a visa application has been
received and is being processed or even that he or she
has attained lawful alien status. Although Defendants

Page 14

201] US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

argue that it should be presumed that state and local law
enforcement of?cers would utilize their arrest powers
only in cases where the notice of action received is
"substantive" or "non-benign," no such limitation ap-
pears in Section 19 nor are those terms de?ned, leaving
to anyone's guess what would constitute a "non-benign"
or "substantive" notice of action or how any Indiana law
enforcement of?cer could be expected to know the basis
for such a distinction. Clearly, it is not the intent or pur?
pose of federal immigration policy to arrest individuals
merely because they have at some point had contact with
an administrative agency about an immigration
matter and received notice to that effect. Authorizing an
arrest for nothing more than the receipt of an administra-
tive noti?cation plainly interferes with the federal gov-
ernment's purpose of keeping those involved in immigra-
tion matters apprised of the status of their cases, bill not
arresting them.

Federal law speci?es that the immigration
penalties associated with aggravated felonies arise only if
the individual has been convicted of the offense. 8 US. C.
Yet Section 19 allows state and local law
enforcement to arrest those who they have probable
cause to believe have merely been indicted for such an
offense. Considering that the determination of whether a
crime constitutes an aggravated felony is often such a
complex and confusing undertaking, and that there is no
guidance in Section 19 as to how a state or local of?cer
should make that determination, the power to arrest on
that basis threatens serious abuses. Regardless, authoriz-
ing the arrest of individuals who have been indicted but
not yet convicted of an aggravated felony runs counter to
the federal intent to limit such penalties. Even in cases
where there has been a conviction covered under
Section 19, if the federal government ?illy resolves the
issue of the alien's conviction and determines that no
penalty will be imposed, a subsequent arrest by state
authorities directly con?icts with the federal determina-
tion. That is the harm posed Mr. Urtiz.

Federal immigration law consists of a myriad of
provisions together creating a balance between compet?
ing regulatory and policy objectives. In order to maintain
that balance throughout the country, federal law vests
discretion at the federal level regarding whether and
which persons without full, lawful alien status should be
arrested. However, Section 19 alters that balance by an-
thorizing the arrest for immigration matters of individu-
als within the State of Indiana only whom, in many cas-
es, the federal government does not intend to be de-
tained. As such, Section 19 interferes with federal discre?
tion relating to priorities for immigration enforcement
and the best methods for carrying out those enforcement
responsibilities. For these reasons, we ?nd that Plaintiffs
have established a likelihood of ultimately prevailing on

the merits of their claim that Section 19 is preempted by
federal law.

B. Section 18

1. Standing

Defendants contend that Ms. Buquer does
not have standing to challenge the constitutionality of
Section 18 because there is no evidence that she is una-
ble to obtain a valid identi?cation card from the State of
Indiana or that, in fact, she has even attempted to do so,
thereby failing to establish that she will be subject to
Indiana Code 34-28-82. However, Ms. Buquer testi-
?ed by af?davit that she is unable to obtain an identi?ca-
tion card or a driver's license from the State of Indiana
because she does not possess any of the requisite docu-
ments for doing so. Buquer Aff. 1  8; Buquer Supp. Aff. 1!
2. Thus, Ms. Buquer has presented suf?cient evidence to
show that she will be subject to Section 18, if and when
it goes into effect on July 1, 20] 1, which is suf?cient to
confer standing on her claim.

2. Preemption

Plaintiffs argue that Section 18 interferes with rights
bestowed on foreign nations by treaty as well as with the
federal government's responsibilities for the conduct of
foreign relations, and is thus preempted. Defendants
rejoin that the statute does not directly con?ict with any
treaty nor does it impede the federal government's ability
to manage foreign affairs, because Section 18 is
merely an internal regulation outlining acceptable forms
of identi?cation within the State of Indiana that does not
single out or con?ict with any identi?able immigration
policy or regulation.

Issuing CIDs is one of the prerogatives of a foreign
government that is protected by the Vienna Convention
of Consular Relations to which the United
States is a signatory. Defendants maintain that Section 18
does not conflict with the VCCR because it does not
prevent a consulate from issuing a CID or from accepting
a CID at the consulate itself. It is true that Section 18
does not prohibit a foreign government from issuing
CIDs to its citizens, and thus does not directly conflict
with the VCCR. However, while Section 18 does not
prohibit a consulate from issuing CIDs, it in essence
makes their issuance meaningless as it prohibits almost
every use for which the documents are ordinarily issued,
including for identi?cation purposes in private commer-
cial transactions that are conducted between private par-
ties. In light of this drastic limitation imposed by Section
18, we are unable to dismiss the statute's impact as in?
consequential. Rather, it appears that the statute directly
interferes with rights bestowed on foreign nations
by treaty.

Page 15

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

It is also clear that such a sweeping prohibition has
the potential to directly interfere with. executive discre-
tion in the foreign affairs ?eld. The executive
branch?s authority over matters of foreign affairs is an
implied constitutional power. Youngstown Sheet Tube
Co. v. Sawyer, 343 US. 579, 610, 72 S. Ct. 863, 96 L.
Ed. 1153, 62 Ohio Law Abs. 417 (1952). "The exercise
of the federal executive authority means that state law
must give way where there is evidence of clear con-
?ict between the policies adopted by the two." American
Ins. Ass?n v. Garamendi, 539 US. 396, 421, 123 S. Ct.
2374, 156 L. Ed. 2d 376 (2003). The State Department
has in the past cautioned the federal government against
taking action against CIDs that might cause other coun-
tries to similarly restrict the use and acceptance of such
documentation for American citizens abroad.6 See Tes-
timony of Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of State
Roberta Jackson for the Bureau of Western Hemisphere
Affairs, Hearing on the Federal Government's Response
to Consular Identi?cation Cards Before the House Sub-
committee on Immigration, Border Security, and Claims,
House Committee on the Judiciary, 108th Cong. 44-45,
at 14 (Jun. 26, 2003).

6 The risk that a state law could result
in similar retaliatory actions by foreign govem-
ments is no less a concern. The potential impact
that Section 18 has on the United States' rela-
tionship and dealings with foreign countries is re-
?ected in the concerns raised by Mexico, Brazil,
Guatemala, El Slavador, and Colombia in their
amicus curiae briefs ?led in this action.

Additionally, the United States Treasury Department
has adopted regulations which, though not requiring 
nancial institutions to accept Cle and other foreign
government-issued documents for identi?cation purpos-
es, allow such entities to do so, and has speci?cally de-
clined to prohibit financial institutions from relying on
particular forms ofl?orcign government?issued identi?ca-
tion. See 31 1020.220; 68 Fed. Reg. 55335,
55336 (Sept. 25, 2006). Thus, while these regulations
may not create a direct con?ict with Section 18, they are
further evidence of the federal government's overarching
and legitimate interest in proceeding with caution with
regard to regulating the use of CIDs. The State of Indi?
ana's decision to enact a statute which makes it a civil
infraction for anyone to use CIDs as valid identi?cation
for any purpose is incompatible with the federal
government's supremacy as well as its deliberately
measured approach.

Defendants cite to cases in which courts have found
state laws not preempted which deal with matters of tra-
ditional state regulation and had only an indirect impact
on foreign policy. See Dunbar v. Seger-Thomschitz, 615

F.3d 574 (5th Cir. 2010) cert. denied, 131 S. Ct. 1511.
179 L. Ed. 2d 307 (2011) (holding that Louisiana pre?
scription period applying generally to any challenge of
ownership to movable property was not preempted even
though the object of the litigation was Nazi-con?scated
artwork); Museum of Fine Arts, Boston v. Seg-
er-Thomschitz, 623 F.3d 1 (Ist Cir. 2010) cert. denied,
131 S. Ct. .1612, 179 L. Ed. 2d 501 (2011) reh'g denied,
131 S. Ct. 2176, 179 L. Ed. 2d 954, 2011 WL 1529816
(US. 2011) (holding that statute of limitations on con-
version was statute of general regulation that does not
con?ict with federal policy). Defendants maintain that,
similar to the statutes of general application directed to-
ward matters of state concern, Section 18 "does not sin-
gle out any identi?able immigration policy or regulation,
but rather outlines acceptable forms of identi?cation
within the State ofIndiana." Defs.? Resp. at 21.

The problem with Defendants? argument here
is that Section 18 is anything but a neutral law of general
application that just happens to have a remote and indi-
rect effect on foreign relations. Rather, it targets only one
form of identi?cation -- Cle issued by foreign govem-
ments. Moreover, Section 18 regulates Cle in the
broadest possible terms, restricting not just what state
agencies may accept as valid identi?cation but prohibit-
ing what identi?cation may be shown and accepted for
purely private transactions. person," the statute says,
and that's all it says. These sweeping regulations, tar-
geted solely at foreign government-issued identi?cation
that consulates are, by treaty, entitled to issue, and which
restrict the manner in which foreign citizens may travel,
live, and trade in the United States have a direct effect on
our nation?s interactions with foreign nations. Such inte-
ractions cannot be dictated or restricted by individual
states. For these reasons, we ?nd that, at this preliminary
stage, Plaintiffs have established a likelihood of success
on the merits of their claim that Section 18 is preempted.

3. Due Process and Equal Protection

Plaintiffs also challenge Section 18 on due process
and equal protection grounds, arguing that the
statute is arbitrary and bears no rational relation to legi-
timate government interests. Defendants rejoin that the
statute is rationally related to the legitimate government
purpose of ensuring the reliability of identification of
individuals within the state and preventing fraud against
law enforcement, merchants, and consumers.

Under traditional due process and equal
protection analysis, state action must be sustained as long
as it bears a rational relation to a legitimate governmental
interest. R.A.V. v. City ofSt. Paul, Minn, 505 US. 377,
406, 112 S. Ct. 2538, 120 L. Ed. 2d 305 (1992). Even
under this highly deferential standard of review, we ?nd
that Plaintiffs have demonstrated a reasonable likelihood

Page 16

2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

of success on the merits of their claim that Section 18 is
violative of due process and equal protection principles.
Although we do not dispute that the stated purpose of
ensuring the reliability of identi?cation of individuals
within the state and preventing fraud against the state is a
legitimate governmental purpose, the breadth of the li-
mitation imposed by Section 18, to wit, preventing any
person (other than a police of?cer) from either kno-
wingly presenting or accepting a CID as a valid
form of identi?cation for any purpose far exceeds its
stated purpose and therefore is not rational.

While all parties agree that the State of lndiana has
the authority to prohibit the use of various forms of iden?
ti?cation, including CIDs, at state agencies, such as the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles, Section 18 goes far beyond
such regulation to prohibit their use or acceptance in any
transaction requiring valid identi?cation, even those be-
tween purely private parties who would otherwise be
willing to accept CIDs in the context of wholly private
transactions. Although Defendants maintain that there
has long been a concern regarding the reliability of CIDs,
Plaintiffs have presented evidence indicating that they
are actually a highly secure form of identi?cation. Upon
careful review of the admittedly limited evidence before
us given the preliminary stage of this litigation, we are
persuaded that CIDs are, at the very least, as reliable as a
number of other forms of documentation that individuals
are permitted to use for certain identi?cation purposes in
Indiana, such as leases, utility bills, and student ID cards.
Accordingly, the legislature's decision to single out
for punishment individuals using CIDs for identi-
?cation purposes from all other individuals, many of
whom are using other, arguably more unreliable forms of
identi?cation simply does not rationally further the goal
of the prevention of fraud or otherwise ensure the relia-
bility of identi?cation. Regrettably in our view, the dis-
tinction more accurately appears to have been designed
simply to target foreign nationals. As the Supreme Court
has recognized, "if the constitutional conception
of ?equal protection of the laws' means anything, it must
at the very least mean that a bare congressional desire to
harm a politically unpopular group cannot constitute a
legitimate governmental interest." United States Dep'l of
Agriculture v. Moreno; 413 US. 528, 534, 93 S. Ct.
2821, 37L. Ed. 2d 782 (1973).

II. Irrepa rable Harm/Inadequate Remedy at Law

Plaintiffs have met their burden on both of these
prongs of the preliminary injunction analysis. It is
well?established that, an alleged depri-
vation of a constitutional right is involved, most courts
hold that no further showing of irreparable injury is ne-
cessary.?' Campbell v. Miller, 373 F.3d 834, 840 (7th
Cir. 2004) (quoting Mitchell v. Cuomo, 748 F.2d 804,

806 (2d Cir: 1984)). Moreover, "showing irre-
parable hann is ?[p]robably the most common method of
demonstrating that there is no adequate legal remedy.?
Id. (quoting 11A Wright, Miller Kane, Federal Prac-
tice and Procedure 2944).

Balance ofHarms

We have already found that Plaintiffs will suffer ir-
reparable harm if a preliminary injunction does not issue.
In contrast, Defendants will suffer minimal, if any, harm
by allowing the status quo to be maintained pending a
?nal determination in this matter, since these areas ad-
dressed by the new and soon to be enjoined state law will
remain under federal controls and authority. Thus, the
balance of harms weighs clearly in Plaintiffs' favor.

IV. Public Interest

Plaintiffs have also established that a preliminary
injunction is in the public interest. It is well?established
under controlling Seventh Circuit law that "the
public has a strong interest in the vindication of an indi-
vidual's constitutional rights O?Brien v. Town of Ca-
ledom'a, 748 F.2d 403, 408 (7th Cir. 1984). Additionally,
as the Ninth Circuit recently recognized in the closely
analogous case, United States v. Arizona, 2011 US. App.
LEXIS 7413, 2011 WL 1346945, at *19, it is clearly not
in the public interest "'to allow the state to vi-
olate the requirements of federal law In such cir-
cumstances, the interest of preserving the Supremacy
Clause is paramount.? Id. (quoting Cal. Pharmacists
Ass?n v. Maxwell-Jolly, 563 F.3d 847, 852-53 (9th Cir.
2009)) (emphasis omitted).

V. Bond

Rule 65(0) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure provides that: "The court may issue a prelim-
inary injunction . . . only if the movant gives security in
an amount that the court considers proper to pay the
costs and damages sustained by any party found to have
been wrongfully enjoined or restrained." However, the
Seventh Circuit has recognized that, "[u]nder appropriate
circumstances bond may be excused, notwithstanding the
literal language of Rule Wayne Chem, Inc. v.
Columbus Agency Serv. Corp, 567 F.2d 692, 701 (7th
Cir. 1977) (citations omitted). We hold that a bond is not
required here, as Defendants are not facing any monetary
injury as a result of the issuance of the preliminary in-
juncdon.

VI. Conclusion

For the foregoing reasons, we GRANT Plaintiffs'
Motion for Preliminary Injunction. Defendants are here?
by PRELIMINARILY ENJOINED from enforcing the

Page 17
2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326, 

following sections of Senate Enrolled Act 590: Section Date: 06/24/2011
18, to be codi?ed as Indiana Code 34-28-82,
and Section 19, which amends Indiana Code 
by adding new sections SARAH EVANS BARKER, JUDGE
until further order of this Court. Defendants are hereby
further ordered to inform forthwith all the affected Indi-
ana state governmental entities of this injunction. Southern District of Indiana

IT IS SO ORDERED.

Sarah Evans Barker

United States District Court

Document 2

Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s
Attorney; dated July 26, 2011; re: Duty to Enforce ICE
Detainers

 

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY
COOK COUNTY, 

ANITA AWARE: CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU 500 RICHARD J. DALEY CENTER
ATTORNEY CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60602
- AREA 312603-5440

July 26, 2011

Honorable Jesus G. Garcia
Commissioner 7'1h District

Cook County-Board of Commissioners
118 North Clark Street, Room 567
Chicago, Illinois 60602

CONFIDENTIAL ATTORNEY CLIENT COWIINICATION

In? Re: Duty to Enforce-ICE Detainers

Dear Commissioner Garcia:

This letter is in response to your request that this Of?ce render an updated legal opinion
regarding the duty to enforce detainers issued by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE).

ISSUE
Whether the duty to enfome ICE detainers is mandatory.
CONCLUSION
. Based upon a recently decided federal court decision, ICE detainers are a not akin to a
criminal warrant, but rather a voluntary request of a law enforcement agency to cooperate with ICE.

It is our opinion that ICE detainers may be treated by the Sheriff as requests for voluntary
cooperation, not as orders with which they are required to cemply.

DISCUSSION
ICE has the authority to issue a detainer requesting that an inmate be held for a period of time

after the completion of a term of imprisonment or release on bail. The regulation found at 8 CFR
287.7 governs ICE detainers and was promulgated purSuant to 8' USC 1227 and 1357 (Sections 236

Commissioner Garcia
July 26, 2011
Page 2

and 287 of the Immigration and Nationality Act), which authorizes any immigration of?cer to issue a
form 1-247, Immigratioo Detainer, to any other Federal, State or local law enforcement agency. The
purpose of ICE detainers are to allow ICE agents time to arrive at the Jail to take into custody at
detainee whose immigration status is in question before the detainee is released frorn'thc Sheriff?s
custody. Although the regulations refer to the detainer as a ?request,? the language in the regulations
directed that upon receipt of a retainer, the local law enforcement agency ?shall maintain custody of
the alien for a period not to exceed 48 hours." 8 CFR Presumably in reliance on this
language, ICE has always publicly suggested that a detainer requires cooperation by the local law
enforcement agency.

However, a recent federal court opinion of ?rst impreSSion clari?es that local law
enforcement agencies are not required to comply with ICE detainers. In Bnqner v. City of
Indianapolis, 2011 US. Dist. LEXIS 68326 (SD. Ind. June 24, 201-1), a federal district court has
provided the ?rst clear guidance on the status of detainers as voluntary. The court stated that a
detainer ?is not a criminal warrant, but rather a voltmtary request that the law enforcement agency
?advise [the Department of Homeland Security prior to release of the alien, in order for
to arrange to assume custody.? Banner at The court?s interpretation provides the ?rst clear
indication that, despite some conflicting language within the regulations, ICE detainers are not
mandatory orders, but merely a request for cooperation.

We further note that this interpretation is consistent with constitutional prohibitions against
the federal enacting laWs directing states to participate in the administration of a
federally enacted regulatory scheme. It is our opinion, based upon this recent clear authority from
the federal courts, that I CE detainers may be treated by the Sheriffas requests for cooperation, not as
orders with which they are required to comply. Please feel free to contact me if you have any further

questions.
truly you s,
r?
gasp. cc 75'

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr.
Deputy State?s Attorney
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau

Document 3

Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s
Attorney; dated September 14, 2011; re: Board?s
Budget Authority ICE Detainer Ordinance

 

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY
COOK COUNTY. ILUNOIs

ANITA ALVAREZ . CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU 500 RICHARD J. onev camera
smrE's ATTORNEY 60602
AREA 312-6103611110

September 14, 2011

Peter M. Kramer

General Counsel

Sheriff's Of?ce of Cook County
Richard J. Daley Center -

50 W. Washington Room 704
Chicago. Illinois 60602

CONFIDENTIALATTORNEY CLIENT COMM UNICA TI 0N

Re; 11-313: Board?s Budget Authority - ICE Detainer Ordinance.
Dear Mr. Kramer:

Issue. Presented

You 1133):: asked this Office to advise you whether the County Board's adoption, on September 7,
2011, of an ordinance titled ?Policy for responding to ICE detainees," is a proper eXereise of the
County?s home rule authority,

Conclusion
The ordinance, which directs the Sheriff to decline ICE detainer requests unless the County has
entered into a written agreement providing for reimbursement from the federal government for
voluntarily holding persons, appears to be a proper exercise of the County's home rule power to
perform any funcrion pertaining to its government and affairs. See, 1970 111. Const, art. VII, 6 
DiscuSsion
Article VII, section, 6(a) of'the Illinois Constitution provides in relevant part as follows:
as limited by this Section, a home rule unit may exercise any pOWer and
perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs including. but not
limited to. the power to regulate for the pretection of thepublic health, safety, morals

and Welfare-..

1970 I11. Const, art. VII, 6 In the preamble to the ordinance the County Board makes several

 

   

legielaUVe findings, including that it "costs Cook County approximately $43,000 per day to hold? the
detainees on a voluntary basis. The Gaunty?s {memes are clearly a matter pertaining to its own
government and affairs. See. Allen. v. County of 00k, 65 Ill. 2d 281 (1976).

We. note that the ordinance does not appear to impact the County?s budgetary process, which is set
forth in Division 6-24 of the Counties Code, titled "Cook C0u11ty Appropriations." 55 ILCS 5/6-
24001 at Seq.

If this Of?ce can be of further aSsista'nce to you in this matter please contact us.
Yours truly,

ANITA ALVAREZ

ATTORNEY OF COOK COUNTY


SEMI $165

Assistant State 63-

Transactions and Health Law
(312) 603-3474

cc: Randolph M. Johnston, Supervisor, Transactions and Health Law

Document 4

Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s
Attorney; dated October 5, 2011; re: 11-335 Legitimate
Law Enforcement Purpose Pursuant to 11-0-73

 

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS

ANITA ALVAREZ CML ACTIONS BUREAU 500 RICHARD J. DALEY CENTER
ATTORNEY CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60602 

AREA 312-603-5440
October 5, 2011

Peter M. Kramer

General Counsel

Sheriff?s Of?ce of Cook County
Richard . Daley Center

50 W. Washington Room 704
Chicago, Illinois 60602

CONFIDENTLAL ATTORNEY CLIENT COMMUNICATION

In Re: 11-335 Legitimate Law Enforcement Purpose Pursuant to 11-0?1;

Dear Mr. Kramer:

You have asked this of?ce whether the. ?legitimate law enforcement purpose" language
described in Section 46-37 of Ordinance 11?0-73, ?Policy for Responding to ICE Detainers" (the
?Ordinance?) permits the Sheriff to exercise discretion in complying with ICE detainers where
there is a legitimate law enforcement purpose.

The Ordinance is clear that the Sheriff must decline ICE detainer requests unless there is
a written agreement with the federal government by which all costs metered by the County in
complying with the ICE detainers ere reimbursed. The Sheriff does not have discretion regarding
compliance with ICE deteiners even where there isa legitimate law enforcement purpose
because the ?legitimate law enforcement purpose" contemplated by the Ordinance refers to
communication with ICE for purposes other than ICE detainers-

Please feel free to contact me if you have any further questions.

Very truly yours,

ANITA A 
ATTO OF CQOK COUNTY

BWLM
Julie C. Dimoff

ASSiStan't State?s Attorney
(3 12) 603?5468

Document 5

Letter from Cook County Sheriff Thomas Dart to Cook
County Commissioner Larry Suffredin; dated
December 15, 2011



 

PHONE (312) 603?6444

OFFICE OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
RICHARDJ. DALEY CENTER
50 W. WASHINGTON - ROOM 704
CHICAGO, IL 60602
THOMAS J. DART

SHERIFF

December 15, 201 

Honorable Larry Suffredin

Cook County Board of Commissioners
118 N. Clark Street, Room 567
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Dear Commissioner Suffredin,

It has been just over a month, November since the last written correspondence with my
of?ce and you regarding Immigration Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers. There have been
productive conversations taking plate and I wanted to reiterate that I believe it is important we
move forward on this issue. 

I believe that measures can be put into place that would allow the residents of Cook County to
feel safe in their community without unfairly targeting any immigrant community. As I
mentioned in the last letter, it is my hope that you agree that those charged with a ?forcible
felony,? those who have a history of ctmvict?ions and those on a Homeland Security Terrorist
Watch List should be held on an ICE detainer rather than released immediately.

The media has reported on some of the individuals that have been released since the passage of
the ordinance on September 7th of. this year- There are two cases in particular that I wanted to
point out on why I believe our communities would be safer without those charged with serious
offenses on our streets.

The first individual was arrested in June (prior to Ordinance being passed) for burglary. This
individual along with an accomplice broke into a home Where a 13 year old girl was hiding in the
basement. The girl was able to call the police and both were arrested. He was bonded out in
October, has not shown for his court date and has a warrant out for his arrest. This individual is
also a child sex offender and has been deported to Mexico twice in the past. The ICE detainer
was placed on this individual in lime.

Princh on Recycled Paper

The second individual was arrested in June for aggravated DUI and leaving the scene of an
accident. After hitting and rolling. over the victim while trying to leave the scene he was cornered
by another car He then jumped from his car and tried running from the scene but was thankfully
caught According the Medical Examiner 3 Of?ce the victim died of multiple injuries from being
hit by a vehicle This individual was bonded out in November has not shown for his court date
and has a warrant out for his arrest. The ICE detainer was placed on this individual in June.

I want to reiterate two items that I mentioned before. First, the ordinance actually articulates as
did the September 7th testimony of both legal counsels, the States Attorney 3 and Sheriff?s that
this ordinance would allow those charged With either a misdemeanor or felony back on the
streets immediately once their bond Was. paid. No consideration is given to the severity or type of
crime, but rather the ordinance demands that ICE detainers not be honored as a blanket policy for
ALL offenders-

The second issue is a belief that the Sheriff?s of?ce has ?discretion? to hold someone on an ICE
detainer should we choose to do 50. Again, not only does the ordinance NOT allow us the
discretion to hold someone on an ICE detainer, but a States Attorney 5 opinion states quite
clearly, ?The Sheriff does not have discretion regarding compliance with ICE detainers even
where there 13 a legitimate law enforcement purpose because the ?legitimate law enforcement
purpose? contemplated by the Ordinance refers to communication with ICE for purposes other
than ICE detainers-?

I am once again requesting that the Board conduct a hearing so that all parties affected by ICE
detainers in the Cook County Criminal Justice System be heard, including the Juvenile Detention
Center and the Judiciary. Attached is the language I am preposing for the amendment. I implore
you give it serious consideration.

Sincerely

    

Thomas J. Dart
Cook County Sheriff

Pending Charge

ICE Detainers received for individuals who have been booked into the Cook County Sheriff?s
custody, shall be booked and/or honored for anyone who has been charged with:

a) At least one felony which is a ?forcible felony?.? in Illinois, Or the equivalent under the law
of any other jurisdiction, as de?ned in 720 ILCS 5/2-8 treason, ?rst degree murder,
second degree murder, predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, aggravated criminal
sexual assault, criminal sexual assault, robbery, burglary, residential burglary, aggravated
arson, arson, aggravated kidnapping, kidnapping, aggravated battery resulting in great
bodily harm or permanent disability or dis?gurement and any other felony which
involves the use or threat of physical force or violence against an individual. Or

b) A Class 2 felony or greater offense under the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720
ILCS 570/100 ct seq., the Cannabis Control Act, 7201LCS 550/1 et seq., or the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, 720 ILCS 646/1 et seq., or
the equivalent under the law of any other jurisdiction.

Ifthe charge against the individual is subsequently dismissed and prior to the release it is veri?ed
that the individual does NOT meet any of the criteria below, that person shall be released and the
ICE Detainer will NOT be honored.

Previously Convicted 
ICE Detainers received for individuals who have been booked into the Cook County Sheriff?s
custody shall be booked and] or honored for anyone who has been previously CONVICTED of
a) felony offense(s) or
b) two misdemeanor offenses (resulting from two different criminal cases)

OR

Prior to any release, a deputy shall check the subject?s Criminal History Information in C11 and
the FBI Criminal history databases. Individuals are NOT eligible for release and ICE Detainers
shall be booked and/or honored for anyone who has been previously ARRESTED for any

a) domestic violence offence either for a felony or misdemeanor classi?cation, or

b) violation of a domestic violence protective order.

Document 6

Letter from John Morton, Director of United States
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to Cook
County President Toni Preckwinkle; dated January 4,
2012

 uJ 

LLS. Department of Homeland Security
500 121.11 Street. SW
Washington, DC. 20536

  
 
  
 

gut-En?.

US. Immigration

and Customs
"a Enforcement

I 151-?
Hui-r

 

JANE II 2012

Ms. Toni Preckwinkle

President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
118 N. Clark Street, Room 537

Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Ms. Preckwinkle:

I write to express my serious concerns with the Ordinance passed by the Cook County
Board of Commissioners on September 7, 2011, entitled ?Policy for Responding to ICE
Detainers? (the Ordinance). As you know, the Ordinance directs the Sheriff to decline
immigration detainer requests, bars US. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) of?cials
from County facilities when enforcing immigration laws, and prohibits County personnel from
responding to ICE inquiries. This Ordinance undermines public safety in Cook County and
hinders ability to enforce the nation?s immigration laws.

Of great concern is the serious impediment the Ordinance poses to lCE?s ability to
promote public safety through the identi?cation of deportable criminals. As written, the
Ordinance restricts County assistance in all immigration enforcement matters?including those
involving individuals convicted of a crime, whether violent or otherwise. As a result, the
Ordinance disrupts the federal government?s efforts to remove deportable criminal offenders
?om the country and instead allows for their release back into the community. In light of-
criminal recidivism rates, the release of so many these individuals to the streets of Cook County
is deeply troubling and directly undermines public safety.

Our concern is not an abstract one, as the Ordinance?s restrictions have already limited
ability to take custody of criminal aliens detained in Cook County. facilities. Since the
Ordinance was enacted, ICE has lodged detainers against more than 268 removable aliens in
Cook County?s custody who have been charged with or convicted of a crime, including serious
and violent offenses like assault on a. law enforcement of?cer. Cook County has not honored
any of these 268 detainers, however, preventing: ICE from considering removal proceedings
against all but 15 of these individuals whOm we were able to locate independently and arrest
following their release into the community. The potential gravity of Cook County?s actions is
highlighted in very real terms in today?s Chicagc Tribune: article concerning the ease of Saul
Chavez. -

In addition to undermining local public safety, the Ordinance may also violate federal
law. The Immigration and Nationality Act provides that a ?local government entity may not
prohibit, or in any way restrict, any government entity or official from sending to, 0r receiving

Ms. Toni Preckwinkle
Page 2

?om, information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of
any individual.? See 8 USE. 1373(a). This provision is designed to ensure that ability
to enforce immigration law in our communities is not unduly obstructed .by state or local laws or
policies. The Ordinance nevertheless prohibits County personnel from responding to ICE
inquiries or communicating with ICE regarding an individuals? incarceration status or release
date.

The Ordinance also inhibits ability to validate: Cook County?s annual request for
State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) funding. As you are aware, through the
SCAAP program, the federal government reimbursed Cook County with nearly $3 .4 million in
2010 and nearly $4.4 million in 20.09 for the cost of detaining criminal aliens in Cook County
detention facilities. In administering the SCAAP program, the Department of Justice requires
the Department of Homeland Security to verify the immigration status of inmates fer whom state
and local agencies seek reimbursement. Without access to the Cook County jails, ability
to accurately verify the immigration status of criminal aliens detained by Cook County becomes
more difficult- Moreover, it is fundamentally inconsistent for Cook COunty to request federal
reimbursement for the cost of detaining aliens who commit or are charged with crimes while at
the same time thwarting efforts to remove those very same aliens from the United States.

Because of the gravity of these concerns, I requeSt that you consider amending the
Ordinance to avoid any legal con?ict with federal law and to restore sensible cooperation
between Cook County and ICE when it comes to the identi?cation and removal of deportable
o?enders incarcerated in Cook County jails.

Sincerely yours,

1 .

0hr] Morton
Director

    

 
 

Document 7

Letter from Cook County President Toni Preckwinkle
to John Morton, Director of United States Homeland
Security; dated January 19, 2012

 

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

118 NORTH CLARK STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603-6400
TDD (312) 603-5255

TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT

January 19, 2012

Mr. John Morton

Director

US. Department of Homeland Security
500 12"1 Street, sw

Washington, DC. 20536

Dear Mr. Morton:

1 am in receipt of your letter, date?stamped January 4, 2012, in which you express your concerns
regarding Cook County?s policy for responding to ICE detainers.

Let me begin by emphasizing that like you, I am ?rmly committed to the public safety of all
residents of Cook County. I also support the .8. Immigration and Customs Enforcement being
able to carry out its duties and responsibilities. What is troubling to me, however, is a policy
which treats people differently under the law solely based upon their immigration status.

You raise the concern that the County ordinance poses a threat to ability to identify
deportable criminals. Subsection of the ordinance does not prohibit honoring of ICE
detainers if, ..there is a written agreement with the federal government by which all costs
incurred by Cook County in complying with the ICE detainer shall be reimbursed.? In other
words, the ordinance makes it clear that if your agency agrees in writing to cover the costs for
housing the ICE detainees at the jail for the additional 48 hours (or, up to 96 hours over
weekends) then the detainer could be honored. It costs the taxpayers of Cook County $143.00
per day to house an inmate in the Cook County Jail and we cannot justify shouldering the cost of
holding detainees beyond their release date. Please be reminded of what is stated in the
ordinance itself: ?There (is) no legal authority upon which the federal government may compel
an expenditure of County resources to comply with an ICE detainer.?

Moreover, subsection of the ordinance does not prohibit ICE agents from having access to

detainees if, . .ICE agents have a criminal warrant, or County officials have a legitimate law
enforcement purpose that is not related to the enforcement of immigration The

Printed on Recycled Papal

 

ordinance recognizes there may be legitimate public safety reasons for providing access to
detainees and provides statutory exceptions for the same. Again, the ordinance does not pose a
threat to ability to identify deportable criminals and the very fact that an ICE detainer is
issued means ICE is already aware of an individual?s whereabouts.

In your letter, you reference the fact that, ?since the Ordinance was enacted, ICE has lodged
detainers against more than 268 removable aliens in Cook County?s custody who have been
charged with or convicted of a crime, including serious and violent This raises two
points that are troubling to me in light of your public safety argument. First, honoring ICE
detainers would apply to those who have yet to be convicted of a crime. If an individual is
charged with a violent offense or is a ?ight risk then an appropriate bond or no bond should be
set to address public safetey; immigration status should not be the driving force for dctainment.
Second, you make it clear that not all of the charges are for serious or violent offenses. Again, it
belies your argument that there is a threat to public safety when the charge could be a low?level

or non?violent offense.

You also indicate that out of the 268 ICE detainers lodged in Cook County since enacting the
ordinance, you were only able to independently locate and arrest 15 of these individuals post?
release. As I have previously stated, I fully support ability to carry out its responsibilities,
yet, I ?rmly believe it must do so through its own due diligence. You refer to Saul Chavez, for
example, who was housed in the Cook County Jail for ?ve months after the ICE detainer was
issued. As you are well aware, this was not Mr. Chavez?s ?rst run?in with the law and prior?to
the arrest on the most recent charge, he had served out a sentence of probation. ICE was not
only aware of Mr. Chavez?s whereabouts during those ?ve months he was detained in 2011 and
could have pursued deportation efforts, but I imagine ICE was also aware of Mr. Chavez?s status
upon his prior conviction. The reason his case was not prioritized while under probation or
during his 2011 detainment escapes me.

Your letter points out that our ordinance may also violate federal law based upon a provision
under the Immigration and Nationality Act. In your letter, you quote a portion of 8 U.S.C.
Section 1373(a). However, if you were to quote the entire provision of sub-section it reads,
?Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal, State, or local law, a Federal, State, or local
government entity or of?cial may not prohibit, or in any way restrict, any government entity or
of?cial from sending to, or receiving from, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
information regarding the citizenship or immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of any
individual.? (Italics added) In this instance, there is a local law??our policy for responding to
ICE detainers?that outlines limitations for utilizing County staff and resources to respond to
ICE inquiries. As previously mentioned, the federal government cannot compel a local agency
to use its resources to enforce federal immigration laws. Furthermore, it is my understanding
that ICE continues to have personnel in Cook County?s criminal courts on a daily basis and that
its of?cials are not prohibited from gathering needed information from other means.

Finally, you reference that the County Ordinance ability to validate Cook
County?s annual request for State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) funding.? We
are certainly aware of and appreciate being reimbursed by the federal government for the cost of
detaining criminal aliens in Cook County detention facilities. However, it is my understanding

that SCAAP funding only applies to the time that an individual is detained in our jail.
Once that individual posts bond or charges are dismissed, they are to be released?regardless of
their immigration status. SCAAP funds do not cover costs of detaining individuals for the
additional 48 hours. Cook County Jail will continue to detain individuals per judge?s discretion
and, during that time, SCAAP funds should be available if detaining immigrants. It would be
unjust to hold someone at the mere request of another governmental entity when that individual
has met all prerequisites for being released from the jail. It may be true, as you state in your
letter, that lCE?s ability to verify immigration status of criminal aliens detained by Cook County
?becomes more dif?cult,? but, that certainly does not mean it is impossible.

Mr. Morton, I welcome the opportunity to meet with you directly on these issues. This is not a
matter I take and as I have said throughout this process, I continue to be open to
thoughtful dialogue and reasoning. If you are interested in scheduling a meeting to discuss this
further, please contact me directly.

Sincerely, .

Toni Preckwinkle
President

Document 8

Opinion from the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s
Attorney; dated January 12, 2012; re: 12-05: Sheriff?s
Proposed Revisions to ICE Detainer Ordinance

 

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS

ANITA ALVAREZ CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU 500 RICHARD J. DALEY CENTER
STATES ATTORNEY CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 00602
AREA 3 i zoos-5:140

January 12, 2012

Honorable Peter N. Silvestri
Commissioner 9'h District

Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Building Room 567

118 North Clark Street

Chicago, Illinois 60602

CONFIDENTIAL ATTORNEY CLIENT COMMUNICATION
In Re: 12-05: Sheriff?s Proposed Revisions to ICE Detainer Ordinance
Dear Commissioner Silvestri:

You have asked this Office to advise you concerning the legality of possible revisions to
Section 46?3? of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, establishing the County?s ?Policy for
responding to ICE Detainers," suggested by the Cook County Sheriff.? (Ordinance attached.) 'You
attach corresPondence sent to you by the Sheriff as well as the Sheriff?s suggested? revisions to the
ordinance. These revisions (attached), which are presented in general form, rather than as an
ordinance amendment. would require the Sheriff to honor ICE detainers for certain categories of
detainees including those charged with forcible felonies or specified drug offenses and also those
detainees previously convicted of a felony offense or two misdemeanor offenses.

You additionally ask that this Office advise concerning any discretion the Sheriff?s office
currently may have with respect to ICE detainers.

ISSUES Presented

Does the Sheriff have any discretion with respect to cooPerating with detainer requests issued
by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs 

May the Cook County Code Section 4637 be amended to require the Sheriff to honor ICE
detainers for certain categories of detainees?

Conclusion

Cook County Code Section 46?37 is clear that the Sheriff must decline ICE detainer requests
unless there is a written agreerrtent with the federal government by which all costs incurred by the
County in complying with the ICE detainers are reimbursed. There being no such agreement, the
Sheriff does not have discretion to choose to c00perate with ICE detainer requests. See Cook
County Code ?46e37(ra).

Cook County Code Section 46-37 may be amended to require that the Sheriff comply with
ICE detainer requests for certain categories of detainees such as those charged with forcible felonies
or specified drug offenses, as well as those previously convicted of felonies or multiple
misdemeanors. However, the classifications set forth must be reasonable and bear a rational
relationship to a legitimate government interest. Proposed classifications based on current charges-
?and prior convictions would likely satisfy these due process and equal protection concerns.

Discussion

ICE has the authority to issue a detainer requesting that an inmate be held for a brief period of
time after the completion of a term of imprisonment or release on bail. The regulation found at 8
CFR 287.7 governs ICE detainers and was promulgated pursuant to 8 USC 1227 and 1357 (Sections
236 and 287 of the Immigration and Nationality Act), which authorizes any immigration officer to
issue a form 1?247, Immigration Detainer, to any other Federal, State or local law enforcement
agency. The purpose of ICE detainers are to allow ICE agents time to take into custody at detainee
whose immigration status is in question before the detainee is released from the law enforcement
agency?s custody, Subsection 287.7(d) directs the law enforcement agency to maintain custody? of
the alien for a period not to exceed 48 hours (excluding weekends and holidays), for this purpose. 8
CFR Detainers issued to local law enforcement agencies such as the Sheriff are not
mandatory orders. or warrants but instead are requests by ICE for the Sheri ff ?5 voluntary cooperation
in keeping a saspected alien in custody, and the detainer automatically expires at the end of the 48
hour period. See, Buquer v; City ofIndianapolis, 201 I U. S. Dist. LEXIS 68326 (SD. Ind. lune?24,
2.011). Where alocal law enforcement agency holds a suspected alien on an ICE detainer in excess
of the 48 hour period, however, the local law enforcement agency may be subject to liability. See,
Rivas v. Martin, 781 F. Supp. 2d 776 (N. D. Ind. 2011).

The County Board adopted Ordinance No. 11?0-73, ?Policy for Responding to ICE
Detainers,? on September 7, 201] (codified in Cook County Code 46-37). Subsection ofthis
ordinance effectively removes any discretion delegated to the Sheriff by federal regulation for
voluntary compliance with ICE detainers. That subsection provides as follows:

The Sheriff of Cook County shall decline ICE detainer requests unless
there is a written agreement with the federal government by which all costs incurred
by Cook County in complying with the ICE detainer shall be reimbursed.

Cook County Code While there is federal statutory authority to enter into such
agreements, no agreement has been entered into by the County and the United States. See 8 USC 

1357(g). 'Ihu?s, pursuant to the plain language of this subsection, the Sheriff is required to decline
ICE detainer requests. In this regard, we note that subsection which permits ICE agents access to
County facilities only in the limited context of criminal warrants or ?legitimate law enforcement
purposes? unrelated to the enforcement of immigrations, does not provide any alternate basis for
authorizing the Sheriff to cooperate with ICE detainers.

Should the County Board wish to restore the Sheriff?s discretion to voluntarily comply with
ICE detainer. requests, or to require that the Sheriff comply with ICE detainer requests for certain
defined categories of detainees, Section 46-37 may be amended to so provide.

With regard to the Sheriff?s general suggested revisions, the proposal to mandate cemplianee
with ICE detainer requests for jail detainees charged with ?forcible felonies? pursuant to Criminal
Code section 2&8 (720 ILCS and for those charged with certain specified felony drug offenses,
as well as those previously convicted of a felony offense or two separate misdemeanor offenses
appears to comport with equal protection and due process requirements. The proposed
classifications, based on a detainee?s current criminal charges and prior convictions appear to be
reasonable and bear a rational relationship to a legitimate government interest, 6., public safety and
cooperation with the federal government' 3 immigration enforcement efforts. 66, Brewer v. Peters,
262111- App. 3d 610 (5th Dist. 1994). Although the law is not clear, the Sheriff?s alternate proposal
to require compliance with ICE detainer requests for jail detainees based solely on the fact they had
been previously arrested for certain types of offense, regardless of whether they had been convicted
of such an offense, may be more vulnerable to challenge as not being rationally related to a
legitimate government interest.

If this Office can be of further assistance to you in this matter please contact us.

cry truly yet


Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr.
Deputy State?s Attorney
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau

Li.)

Document 9

Letter from Hanover Park Village President Rodney
Craig to Cook County Commissioner Larry Suffredin;
dated January 18, 2012

 

Hanover Park

 

Village Of Hanover Park Municipal Building Rodney Craig

2 I 2  Wesl Lake Slreel Village Pr?esiden!
k. Eira Corral

Village Clerk
630-372?4200 RonaIdA Moser
Fax 630?372-42 I 5 Village Managcr

January 18, 2012



wl?L

Mr. Larry Suffredin,

County Commissioner - 13th District
Cook County Board
118 N. Clark Street - Room 567
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Mr. Suffredin:

Recently, a meeting took place between myself, Chief David Webb (Hanover Park Police
Department), Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart, and three police associations being the
North Suburban Chiefs of Police Association, West Suburban Chiefs of Police
Association, and South Suburban Chiefs of Police Association. This meeting was to
discuss the important topic of ICE detainers. The outcome of this meeting was very
positive.

The County Board of Cook County had passed its Ordinance 11-0?73 on September 7,
2011 which sets forth a concise and inflexible policy that Cook County decline ICE
detainers absent a written agreement with the Federal government that a_l  costs
incurred by Cook County in complying with the ICE detainer shall be reimbursed and
that absent a criminal warrant, ICE agents shall have no access to individuals in county
facilities nor shall they be allowed to use county facilities for investigative interviews or
other purposes, nor shall county personnel spend any time in communication with ICE
officials regarding inmate's status or release dates.

The Village of Hanover Park is a Cook County community with a police department that
processes incarcerated arrestees through the Cook County Sheriff's office. The
aforementioned ordinance directly affects the residents of the Village of Hanover Park,
as well as all other residents of the State of Illinois. The people of Illinois rely on Cook
County and its Sheriff's department's jail in processing those charged with and held on
serious crimes.

The policy of the Cook County Board has resulted in individuals charged with battering
Village police officers not being held on an ICE detainer, but rather being afforded a
?benefit" by the Cook County Board directing their release without concern of an ICE
detainer, all to the detriment of local Cook County municipal police efforts, namely the
Village of Hanover Park's police department and its officers.

Document 10

Letter from the Cook County Public Defender; dated
February 1, 2012-; Re: Ordinance 46-37 and Proposed
Amendments

Law Of?ce of the
COOL lelifljf 1; 



69w wasnrno?rou - 16TH FLOOR . CHICAGO, IL 60602 - (312) 603?0600

 

Hon. Abishi C. Cunningham, Jr. (Rat) - Public Defender

 

Hon. Toni Preckwinlcle

President, Cook Connty Board Of Commissioners
118 N. Clark Street, Room 537

Chicago, IL 60602

February 1, 2012

Re: Ordinance 46-37 and Proposed Amendments

Dear President Preckwinkle,

On September 7, 2011, you and The Cook County Board of Commissioners passed Ordinance
46-37 regarding Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainers. re?ected in Ordinance
46-37, ICE Detainers are not warrants or court orders and have no due process or constitutional
safeguards attached to them. ICE Detainers do not have the force of law and are merely requests that
Cook County detain even those who have posted bond at the County?s expense. Ordinance 46?37 was
?scally responsible in insuring that the County was reimbursed for housing those whom ICE wished to

detain.

Ordinance 46?37 also re?ected Cook County?s history and doctrine embedded in the
Sanctuary resolution 07' 240, offering equal protection to all Cook County Residents regardless of
national origin, citizenship or immigration status. That resolution, as well as Ordinance 46-37,
recognized that equal protection for ail Cook County residents will ?engender trust and cooperation
between law enforcement officials and immigrant comm rarities to aid in crime 

Both amendments being considered effectively repeal the existing ordinance by carving out
exceptions thatallow?s the Sheriff of Cook County absolute discretion in cooperating and reporting to
ICE in advance of, and one assumes in expectation of, ICE detainers. Moreover, both. amendments
vitiate the requirement that the federal government agree to reimburse Cook County for housing costs.
As a detainer is not based on observable evidence or investigation, such as would be required for a
warrant or court order, citizens of Cook County have been detained and held, despite posting bail, at

the County?s expense until ICE Agents appear.

The language in the. amendments that allows reporting of those susPected of violating
inunigration laws is vague, con - no due process safeguards as would a warrant or a police search
requiring ?probable cause,? and will lead to the type of discrimination that the existing ordinance
addressed and corrected, Speci?cally, Ordinance 476-37 expressly referenced that detainers
encourage racial pro?ling and haraSSment. . Again, the prOposed amendments are a repealing of the
Ordinance they purport to amend.

It is easy and historically commonplace to scapegoat immigrant communities in times of
economic distress. It is a sirnple matter to target the most vulnerable of Cook County?s residents, most
of. Whom are law abiding", tax paying residents, who also contribute to social security money they
themselvesr?wi'll never. see;-

Ihe laws and rules Cook County pass re?ect who we are as a County, who we are as a
people?our- characterland our conscience. Ordinance 46?37 re?ected the best and the most
courageous of our traditions: extending the equal protection of our laws in those whercannot protect
themselves. The Law Of?ce of the Cook County Public Delimcler respect?illy urges the Board of
Commissioners to reject-any ame?ndr?nents to the existing ordinance. Ordinance 46-37 has deep
constitutional implications in its implementation; it ought not to be subject to the vicissitudes and
prejudices attendantuupon a bad economy.

Sincerely,

I on. Abishi C. Cunningham, Jr- er.)
Public Defender

 

Co: The Cook County. Board of CommissiOners

Document 11

Letter from Cook County Sheriff Thomas Dart to John
Morton, Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement; dated January 20, 2012

 

THE 
RICHARD J. DALEY CENTER
COOK COUNTY
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602

THOMAS J. DART
SHERIFF

January 20, 2012

 

Director John Morton

US. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
500 12th Street, sw

Washington, DC 20536

Dear Director Morton:

As you are aware there has been a continuing debate throughout the United-States and in
particular Cook County, Illinois on how and if the County is to respond to ICE detainers. This
week, the Cook County Board of Commissioners moved an ordinance into their Legislation
and Intergovernmental Relations Committee to further discussions on if and how the County
should respond to detainers.

Today the Committee notified me that the hearing will take place on Thursday, January 26,
2012 at the County Building, which is located at 118 North Clark Street in Chicago, Illinois.
The hearing will start at 10:00 A.M. in Room 569.

It is my hope and that of all the stake holders in the County, that you will be present for
this important hearing. I have told others and I will tell you, I believe that measures can be
put into place that would allow the residents of Cook County to feel safe in their community
without unfairly targeting any immigrant community. Good policy will be achieved by
bringing everyone to the table to hear their questions, comments and concerns. It would be
a tremendous value if you would be able to share with the Committee your insights into
what is happening with regards to securing our communities.

Sincerely,

Thomas J. Dart
Cook County Sheriff

cc: Commissioner Larry Suffredin

