Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Contract Compliance Committee Minutes
Wednesday, June 29, 2016

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)

Also Present:

Commissioners Daley, Morrison, and Suffredin (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Steele asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.
There were no public speakers

16-0295
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/22/2016
A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)

16-0189
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
1-8-5b Subdivision II Construction Ordinance

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 5 Minority - And Women Owned Business
Enterprises, Section 5b (O) - Subdivision II Construction Ordinance of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Code is
hereby amended as Follows:
Title 1 - Administrative
Chapter 8 - District Finances
Section 5 - Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises
Section 5b - Subdivision II Construction Ordinance
***
(O) Program Review and Sunset.

1. The President and the Board of Commissioners shall receive quarterly and annual reports from
the CCA detailing the District's performance under the Program.
2. The President and the Board of Commissioners will review these reports, including the Annual
Participation Goals and the County's District’s progress towards meeting those Goals andeliminating
discrimination in its contracting activities and marketplace.
3. Within five (5) years after the effective date of this ordinance, t The District will periodically
review the operation of the Program and the evidentiary basis for the Program in order to determine
whether the District has a continuing compelling interest in remedying discrimination against
MBEs and WBEs in its construction marketplace, and the permissible scope of any narrowly
tailored remedies to redress discrimination against MBEs or WBEs so that the District will not
function as a passive participant in a discriminatory marketplace.
***
4. This subdivision shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that this committee
accept the substitute to this Ordinance Amendment. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)

Page 2 of 32

 PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 16-0189 (6-29-2016)
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
1-8-5b: SUBDIVISION II—CONSTRUCTION ORDINANCE.
A. Short Title; Incorporation of Provisions. This subdivision may be known and cited as the "Forest
Preserve District of Cook County Public Works Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprise
Ordinance" and may be cited as such.".
B.

C.

Preface and Findings.
1.

The findings set forth in Subdivision I Section B of this Section 1-8-5 are incorporated herein by
this reference.

2.

On July 11, 2012, the Governor of Illinois signed a new law allowing the District to establish
provisions to address the underutilization of M/WBEWBEs with respect to construction
Contracts.

3.

The District seeks to provide a level playing field and equal access for all prime contractors and
subcontractors to participate in Public Works Contracts;

4.

In the absence of authority to establish the type of provisions referenced via the Program to Public
Works Contracts, the District has witnessed a significantly low level of participation by M/WBEs
in its Public Works Contracts and, thus, the District has been a passive participant in a
discriminatory marketplace without the application of M/WBE goals.

Policy and Purpose. It is hereby found, determined and declared that the purpose of this Ordinance is
to ensure the full and equitable participation of Minority- and Women-Owned Business
EnterprisesLocal Small Businesses owned by Economically Disadvantaged M/WBEs in the District's
procurement process as both prime contractors and subcontractors in the District's construction
contracts. The District is committed to a policy of preventing discrimination in the award of, or
participation in, construction contracts and has recommended appropriate narrowly tailored remedies
to address past discrimination and eliminate potential discrimination with respect to District contract
awards.

D. Applicability. This subdivision shall apply to all construction contracts funded in whole or in part by
CountyDistrict funds, regardless of the sources of other funds; provided that any contract with respect
to which a goal for Minority-Owned Business Enterprise or Women-Owned Business Enterprise
participation is inconsistent with or prohibited by State or Federal law shall be exempt from the goals
included in this subdivision.
E.

Definitions. The following terms shall have the following meanings:
1.

Affiliate of a person or entity means a person or entity that directly or indirectly through one (1)
or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person
or entity. In determining Affiliation, the District shall consider all appropriate factors, including
common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships.

2.

Annual ParticipationAspirational Goals mean the targeted levels of participation established by
the District for the annual aggregate participation of MBEs and WBEs in District construction
contracts.

Page 3 of 32

 3.

Applicant means a person who submits documents and information seeking certification,
continued certification, or re-certification as an MBE or WBE to Cook County’s Office of
Contract Compliance.

4.

Business means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint
Venture or any other business or professional entity.

45. Certified or Certification means registration of the Minority Business Enterprise or Women's
Business Enterprise status of a business in the County's Directory of Minority Business
Enterprises and Women's Business Enterprises or registration as a minority or women owned
business by a reciprocal agency acceptable to the County.
6.

Certified Firm means a firm that has been registeredaccepted by the County as a certified MBE
or WBECertified.

57. Commercially Useful Function means responsibility for the execution of a distinct element of the
work of the contract, as described in subsection K.(4) of this Subdivision.
8.

Contract Compliance Administrator or CCA means the Forest Preserve District Contract
Compliance Administrator.

69. Contract Compliance Director or CCD means the Cook County Contract Compliance Director.
The CCD also shall be empowered to act as, or assist, the CCA with respect to the functions of
the CCA referenced herein.
710. Contractor means any Business that seeks to enter into a construction contract with the District,
other than for professional services, and includes all partners and Affiliates Business.
8.

Commercially Useful Function means responsibility for the execution of a distinct element of the
work of the contract, which is carried out by actually performing, managing, and supervising the
work involved, or fulfilling responsibilities as a Joint Venture partner.

9.

Director or CCD means the Contract Compliance Director.

1011.
District means the Forest Preserve District of Cook County and its participating Using
Department.
1112.
District's Marketplace means the six-county region, currently the counties of Cook,
DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will.
12. Doing Business means having a physical location from which to engage in for profit activities in
the scope(s) of expertise of the Business.
13. Economically Disadvantaged means an individual withhaving a Personal Net Worth less than two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00)), indexed annually for the Chicago Metro Area Consumer Price
Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, published by the U.S. Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Standards, beginning January 20112008.
14. Expertise means demonstrated skills, knowledge or ability to perform in the field of endeavor in
which certification is sought by the Business as defined by normal industry practices, including
licensure where required
15. Good Faith Efforts means actions undertaken by a Contractor to achieve an MBE or WBE goal,
which, by their scope, intensity, and appropriateness to the objective, can reasonably be expected
to fulfill the Program'ssuch goals.
1615.
Joint Venture means an association of two (2) or more Businesses proposing to perform a
for profit business enterprise. Joint Ventures must have an agreement in writing specifying the

Page 4 of 32

 terms and conditions of the relationships between the partners and their relationship and
responsibility to the contract.
1716.
Local Business means a Business located within the District's Marketplace which has the
majority of its regular, full time work force located within the District's Marketplace.
1817.

Local Small Business means a Local Business which is also a Small Business.

1918.
Manufacturer means a firmPerson (as this term is defined below) that operates or maintains
a factory or establishment that produces, on the premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or
equipment required under the contract and of the general character described by the specifications.
2019.

Minority Business Enterprise or MBE means a Business:

a.

Which is at least fifty-one (51) percent owned by one (1) or more Minority Individuals who
are Economically Disadvantaged, or in the case of a publicly owned Business, at least fiftyone (51) percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one (1) or more such
Minority Individuals;

b.

Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are
independently managed and controlled by one (1) or more Minority Individuals;

c.

Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

d.

Which is a Certified Firm; and

e.

Which is a Local Small Business.

2120.

Minority Individual means a natural person in one (1) of the following groups:

a.

African-Americans or Blacks, which includes persons having origins in any of the Black
racial groups of Africa;

b.

Hispanic-Americans, which includes persons ofwho are Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban,
Caribbean, Dominican, Central or South American, regardless of race;

c.

Native-Americans, which includes persons who are American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or
Native Hawaiians; or

d.

Asian-Americans, which includes persons whose origins are in any of the original peoples
of the Far East Asia, Southeast Asia, the islands of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas, or
the Indian Subcontinent; or

e.

Individual members of other groups, including, but not limited to, Arab-Americans, found
by the District to be socially disadvantagedSocially Disadvantaged by having suffered racial
or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society, without regard to individual
qualities, resulting in decreased opportunities to compete in the District's marketplace or to
do business with the DistrictMarketplace.

2221.
Owned means having all of the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of
disposition, and sharing in all of the risks, responsibilities and profits commensurate with the
degree of ownership.
2322.
Person(s) or Personsperson(s) means any individualnatural person, corporation,
partnership, Joint Venture, trust, association, limited liability company, sole proprietorship or
other legal entity.
2423.
Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets of an individual after total liabilities
are deducted. An individual's personal net worthPersonal Net Worth does not include the
individual's ownership interest in an applicantApplicant or other District certifiedCertified MBE
Page 5 of 32

 or WBE, provided that the other firmCertified MBE or WBE is certified by a governmental
agency that meets the District's eligibility criteria or the individual's equity in his or her primary
place or residence. As to assets held jointly with his or her spouse, an individual's personal net
worthPersonal Net Worth includes only that individual's share of such assets. An individual's net
worthPersonal Net Worth also includes the present value of the individual's interest in any vested
pension plans, individual retirement accounts, or other retirement savings or investment programs
less the tax and interest penalties that would be imposed if the asset were distributed at the present
time, and shall not include future payments receivable from a pension or Social Security.
2524.
Program means the Program established by thePublic Works Minority- and WomenOwned Business Enterprise Ordinanceprogram established in this Subdivision.
2625.
Project Specific Goals means the Goals established for a particular project or contract
based upon the availability of MBEs or WBEs in the scopes of work of the Project.
2726.
Public Works means all fixed works constructed or demolished by the District, or paid for
wholly or in part out of public funds administered by the District. Public Works as defined herein
includes all projects financed in whole or in part with bonds, grants, loans, or other funds made
available by or through federal or State government, or local government. Public Works includes
any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly work performed on equipment whether
owned, leased, or rented. the County. Public Works does not include projects undertaken by the
owner at an owner-occupied single-family residence or at an owner-occupied unit of a
multifamily residence. Public Works includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly
work performed on equipment whether owned, leased, or rented.
2827.
Public Works Contracts means Contractscontracts for all fixed works constructed or
demolished by the District, or paid for wholly or in part out of public funds administered by the
DistrictPublic Works.
2928.

Purchasing Agent means the Purchasing Agent of the District.

3029.
Regular Dealer means a firmPerson that owns, operates, or maintains a store, warehouse,
or other establishment in which the materials, supplies, articles or equipment of the general
character described by the specifications and required under the contract are bought, kept in stock,
and regularly sold or leased to the public in the usual course of business. To be a Regular Dealer,
the firmPerson must be an established, regular Business that engages, as its principal business
and under its own name, in the purchase and sale or lease of the products in question. A
firmPerson may be a Regular Dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products, steel, cement,
gravel, stone, or asphalt without owning, operating, or maintaining a place of business if the
firmPerson both owns and operates distribution equipment for the products. Any supplementing
of a Regular Dealer'sPerson’s distribution equipment shall be by a long-term lease agreement and
not on an ad hoc or contract-by-contract basis. Packagers, manufacture representatives, or other
persons who arrange or expedite transactions are not Regular Dealers.
3130.
Small Business means a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business
Administration, pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121, relevant to the
scope(s) of work the firmPerson seeks to perform on District contracts. A firmPerson is not an
eligible small business enterprise in any calendar fiscal year in which its gross receipts, averaged
over the firm'sPerson's previous five (5) fiscal years, exceed the size standards of 13 CFR Part
121.
3231.
Socially Disadvantaged means a Minority Individual or Woman who hashaving been
subjected to racial, ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias within American society because
of his or her identity as a member of a group and without regard to individual qualities. Social
disadvantage must stem, stemming from circumstances beyond the individual'srelevant person’s
Page 6 of 32

 control. A Socially Disadvantaged individualnatural person must be a citizen or lawfully admitted
permanent resident of the United States.
32. 33.
Using Department means the department ofas defined by the District responsible for
initiating the procurement process.
33. 34. Utilization Plan means the lista plan for utilization of MBEs and M/WBEs that the
Bidder/Proposer commits will be utilized, the scopesdescribed in subsection L. of the work and
the dollar values or the percentages of the work to be performed.this Subdivision.

F.

35. 34.

Woman means a natural person of the female gender.

3635.

Woman-Owned Business Enterprise or WBE means a Business:

a.

Which is at least fifty-one (51) percent owned by one (1) or more Women who are
Economically Disadvantaged, or in the case of a publicly owned Business, at least fifty-one
(51) percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one (1) or more such Women;

b.

Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are
independently managed and controlled by one (1) or more such Women;

c.

Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

d.

Which is a Certified Firm; and

e.

Which is a Local Small Business.

Program Administration.
1.

The CCA, who shall report toin conjunction with the General SuperintendentDistrict’s Purchasing
Agent and the President of the Board of Commissioners of Forest Preserve District of Cook
CountyCCD, shall administer the Program, whose. The duties of the CCA shall include:
a.

Formulating, proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Program.

b.

Providing information and assistance to MBEs and WBEs relating to District procurement
practices and procedures, bid specifications, requirements, goals and prerequisites. M/WBEs
and Small Businesses relating to the Program, serving as a liaison to community, contractor,
professional and supplier groups, and serving as a liaison to various other associations and
organizations.

c.

Establishing uniform procedures and criteria for accepting certifications ofVerifying that
Persons as M/WBEs by interested in participating in the County of CookProgram are
Certified and monitoring the City of Chicago, and maintaining a directory of Certified Firms.
M/WBEs maintained by Cook County.

d.

Establishing Project Specific Goals in collaboration with the UserUsing Department based
upon the availability of M/WBEs to provide the supplies, materials and equipment or
services required by the contract.

e.

Evaluating Contractors' achievement of Project Specific Goals and Good Faith Efforts to
meet Project Specific Goals.

ff.

Cooperating with and providing assistance to Using Departments to facilitate participation
by M/WBEs in procurements.

g.

Reviewing, approving, and, if necessary, rejecting Utilization Plans for achievement of
Project Specific Goals; evaluating the extent to which the goals were achieved.

Page 7 of 32

 h.

Working with Using Departments to monitor contracts to ensure prompt payments to MBEs
and WBEs and compliance with Project Specific Goals and commitments, including
gathering data to facilitate such monitoring.

gi. Receiving, reviewing, and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the Program.
hj. Collecting data to evaluate the Program and other District contracting initiatives.
ik. Monitoring the Program and the District's progress towards its Annual
ParticipationAspirational Goals. The CCA shall report on a quarterly and annual basis to the
General Superintendent and the President on the administration and operations of the
Program.
l.
2.

3.

Impose sanctions and penalties as described in Subsection N.

The Using Departments that receive appropriate delegation for project management, contract
management, and/or construction and/or design contract responsibility shall have the following
duties and responsibilities with regard to the Program:
a.

Assisting the CCA with setting Project Specific Goals.

b.

Assisting in the identification of available MBEs and WBEs, and providing other assistance
in meeting the Project Specific Goals.

c.

Performing other activities to support the Program.

d.

Gathering and maintaining prime contracting and subcontracting data for those contracts
which they manage.

e.

Submitting subcontracting data as required to the CCD or CCA.

Intergovernmental Agreement Betweenbetween District and County. The Forest Preserve District
of Cook County shall provide staff and/or reimbursement to Cook County as set out in an
intergovernmental agreement for the CCD to also act as, or assist, the CCA.

G. Race- and Gender-Neutral Measures to Ensure Equal Opportunities for all Contractors and
Subcontractors. The District has adopted and shall continue to develop and use measures to facilitate
the participation of all firms in District construction contracting activities. These measures shall
include, but are not limited to:
1.

Arranging solicitation times for the presentations of bids, quantities, specifications, and delivery
schedules to facilitate the participation of interested firms;

2.

Segmenting, structuring or issuing contracts to facilitate the participation of MBEs, WBEs and
other Small Businesses;

3.

Providing timely information on contracting procedures, bid preparation and specific contracting
opportunities;

4.

Providing assistance to Businesses in overcoming barriers such as difficulty in obtaining bonding
and financing;

5.

Holding pre-bid conferences, where appropriate, to explain the projects and to encourage
Contractors to use all available qualified firms as subcontractors;

6.

Adopting prompt payment procedures, including, requiring by contract that prime Contractors
promptly pay subcontractors;

7.

Reviewing retainage, bonding and insurance requirements to eliminate unnecessary barriers to
contracting with the District;

Page 8 of 32

 8.

Collecting information from all prime Contractors on District construction contracts detailing the
bids received from all subcontractors for District construction contracts and the expenditures to
subcontractors utilized by prime Contractors on District construction contracts;

9.

At the discretion of the District, letting a representative sample of District construction contracts
without goals, to determine MBE and WBE utilization in the absence of goals;

10. Maintaining information on all firms bidding on District prime contracts and subcontracts; and
11. Referring complaints of discrimination to the appropriate authority, for investigation.
H. Program Eligibility. Only Businesses that meet the criteria as defined by the CCD for the County of
Cook, for certification as a MBE or WBE may participate in the Program.
I.

Annual Aspirational Goals. The Annual Aspirational Goals for the utilization of MBEs and WBEs on
District construction contracts and subcontracts shall be twenty-four (24) percent for MBEs and ten
(10) percent for WBEs.

J.

Project Specific Goals. The CCA, following the compilation and stringent review of the most current
data that is feasibly and practicably available relative to the availability of MBEs and WBEs who have
the capacity to successfully supply the relevant goods and services, and in consultation with the Using
Department, shall establish Project Specific Goals for construction Contracts based upon the
availability of at least three (3) MBEs and three (3) WBEs to perform the anticipated subcontracting
functions of the project and the District's utilization, which shall be incorporated into each bid and
RFP. No goal shall be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any Person on the
basis of MBEs and WBEs to daterace, color, national origin, religion or sex.

K. Counting MBE and WBE Participation.
1.

The entire amount of that portion of a contract that is performed by the MBEs or WBEs own
forces shall be counted, including the cost of supplies and materials obtained by the MBE or WBE
for the work of the contract, and supplies purchased or equipment leased by the MBE or WBE
(except supplies and equipment the MBE or WBE purchases or leases from the prime Contractor
or the prime Contractor's Affiliate).

2.

The entire amount of fees or commissions charged by a MBE or WBE for providing a bona fide
service, such as professional, technical, consultant or managerial services, or for providing bonds
or insurance specifically required for the performance of a contract, shall be counted, provided
the fee is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily charged for similar
services.

3.

When a MBE or WBE performs as a participant in a Joint Venture, only the portion of the total
dollar value of the contract equal to the distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the Joint
Venture's contract that is performed by the MBE or WBE with its own forces and for which it is
separately at risk, shall be counted.

4.

Only expenditures to a MBE or WBE that is performing a Commercially Useful Function shall
be counted. To determine whether a MBE or WBE is performing a Commercially Useful
Function, the District will evaluate the amount of work subcontracted, industry practices, whether
the amount the MBE or WBE is to be paid under the contract is commensurate with the work it
is actually performing and other relevant factors. To perform a Commercially Useful Function,
the MBE or WBE must be responsible, with respect to materials and supplies used on the contract,
for negotiating price, determining quality and quantity, ordering the material, installing (where
applicable) and paying for the material itself. A MBE or WBE does not perform a Commercially
Useful Function if its role is limited to that of an extra participant in the contract through which
funds are passed in order to obtain the appearance of MBE or WBE participation. If a MBE or
WBE subcontracts a greater portion of the work of a contract than would be expected based on
Page 9 of 32

 normal industry practice, it is presumed not to perform a Commercially Useful Function. When
a MBE or WBE is presumed not to be performing a Commercially Useful Function, the Certified
Firm may present evidence to rebut this presumption.

L.

5.

One hundred (100) percent of the cost of the materials or supplies obtained from a MBE or WBE
Manufacturer or Regular Dealer shall be counted. One hundred (100) percent of the fees or
transportation charges for the delivery of materials or supplies required on a job site shall be
counted only if the payment of such fees is a customary industry practice and are commensurate
with fees customarily charged for similar services.

6.

If a firm ceases to be a Certified Firm for anyreasons associated with malfeasance, fraud or other
reason than graduation from thefactors set forth in Subsection N. Sanctions and Penalties, an
M/WBE Construction Programceases to be Certified during its performance on a
contractprocurement, the dollar value of work performed under a contract with that firmM/WBE
after it has ceased to be certifiedCertified shall not be counted. If for other reasons not associated
with malfeasance, fraud or other factors set forth in Subsection N. Sanctions and Penalties, an
M/WBE ceases to be Certified during its performance on a procurement, the dollar value of work
performed under a contract with that M/WBE after it has ceased to be Certified shall be counted
for the remaining term of the contract.

7.

In determining achievement of Project Specific Goals, the participation of a MBE or WBE shall
not be counted until that amount has been paid to the MBE or WBE.

Contract Pre-Award Compliance Procedures.
1.

For all solicitations, the bidder/proposer shall submit a Utilization Plan detailing all
subcontractors from which the Contractor solicited bids or quotations, and if Project Specific
Goals have been established, its achievement of the Goals or its Good Faith Efforts to do so. The
Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid proposal is due. In the event a bid or proposal
leads to a contract with the District, the Utilization Plan as approved by the CCA shall be
incorporated as a material commitment as between the Contractor and all relevant M/WBEs, and
the Contractor and the District.

2.

Any agreement between a Contractor and a MBE or WBE in which the Contractor requires that
the MBE or WBE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors is prohibited.

3.

Parties submitting bids or proposals may in all instances request a partial or full waiver of one or
more established Project Specific Goals for M/WBE participation. Where the Contractor cannot
achieve the Project Specific Goal(s), the CCD or CCA will determine whether the Contractor has
made Good Faith Efforts to meet the Goal(s). In making this determination, the CCA will
consider, at a minimum, whether the Contractor's efforts toContractor has:
a.

SolicitSolicited through all reasonable and available means (e.g., attendance at pre-bid
meetings, advertising and written notices) the interest of all MBEs and WBEs certified in
the scopes of work of the contract. The Contractor shall provide interested MBEs and WBEs
with timely, adequate information about the plans, specifications, and requirements of the
contract to allow MBEs and WBEs to respond to the solicitation. The Contractor must follow
up initial solicitations with interested MBEs and WBEs.

b.

SelectSelected portions of the work to be performed by MBEs and WBEs in order to increase
the likelihood that the Project Specific Goals will be achieved. This includes, where
appropriate, breaking out contract work items into economically feasible units to facilitate
MBE and WBE participation, even when the Contractor would otherwise prefer to perform
these work items with its own forces. It is the Contractor's responsibility to make a portion

Page 10 of 32

 of the work available to MBEs and WBEs and to select those portions of the work or material
needs consistent with the availability MBEs and WBEs to facilitate their participation.
c.

NegotiateNegotiated in good faith with interested MBEs and WBEs. Evidence of such
negotiation includes the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of MBEs and WBEs that
were contacted; a description of the information provided regarding the plans and
specifications for the work selected for subcontracting; and why agreements could not be
reached with MBEs and WBEs. The Contractor may not reject MBEs and WBEs as being
unqualified without sound reasons based on a thorough investigation of their capabilities.
That there may be some additional costs involved in finding and using MBEs and WBEs is
not in itself sufficient reason for a Contractor's failure to meet the Project Specific Goals, as
long as such costs are reasonable. The ability or desire of a Contractor to perform the work
of a contract with its own organization does not relieve it of the responsibility to make Good
Faith Efforts on all scopes of work that could be subcontracted.

d.

MakeMade efforts to assist interested MBEs and WBEs in obtaining bonding, lines of credit,
or insurance as required by the District or the prime Contractor, where appropriate; provided,
however, that such efforts shall not be inconsistent with the requirement that the M/WBE be
responsible for actually obtaining and paying for such items.

e.

MakeMade efforts to assist interested MBEs and WBEs in obtaining necessary equipment,
supplies, materials, or related assistance or services, where appropriate; provided, however,
that such efforts shall not be inconsistent with the requirement that the M/WBE be
responsible for actually obtaining and paying for such items.

f.

UseUsed the services of the CCA, available minority/women community organizations,
minority/women contractors' groups, government sponsored minority/women business
assistance offices and other appropriate organizations to provide assistance in the
recruitment and placement of MBEs and WBEs.

g.

Maintained or committed to establish and maintain a mentor-protégé agreement with one or
more M/WBEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgment of the CCA, has performance
standards and outcomes that are clearly established and effective in terms of assisting the
M/WBE in acquiring additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the long-term
success of the M/WBE.

4.

In determining whether a Contractor has made Good Faith Efforts, the performance of other
Contractors in meeting the Project Specific Goals may be considered. For example, when the
apparent successful Contractor fails to meet the Project Specific Goals but others meet it, it may
be reasonably questioned whether, with additional reasonable efforts, the apparent successful
Contractor could have met the Project Specific Goals. Similarly, if the apparent successful
Contractor fails to meet the Project Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average MBE or
WBE participation obtained by other Contractors, this may be evidence that the apparent
successful Contractor made Good Faith Efforts.

5.

A signed letter of intent from each listed MBE or WBE, describing the work, materials, equipment
or services to be performed or provided by the MBE or WBE and the agreed upon dollar value
shall be due at the time of bid proposal or within three (3) days after such submission.

6.

The CCA shall timely review the Utilization Plan before award, including the scope of work and
the letters of intent from MBEs and WBEs. The CCA may request clarification in writing of items
listed in the Utilization Plan, provided such clarification shall not include the opportunity to
augment listed participation or Good Faith Efforts.

Page 11 of 32

 7.

If the CCA determines that the Utilization Plan demonstrates that the Project Specific Goals have
been achieved or Good Faith Efforts made, with the concurrence of the Using Department, the
CCA and Using Department shall recommend award to Purchasing Department.

8.

If the CCA finds that a Contractor did not make sufficient Good Faith Efforts, the CCA shall
communicate this finding to the Purchasing Department and recommend that the bid/proposal be
rejected. A Contractor may protest this determination pursuant to the County's bid protest
procedures.

9.

The CCA shall from time to time, by way of seminars and internet-based communications, make
available to the business community such information and documents as will assist the
community in understanding the manner in which a full or partial waiver may be requested, and
the manner in which such a request may be supported. In addition, the CCA shall make
representatives available to confer on the subject of waivers with parties who plan on submitting
particular bids or proposals.

M. Contract Administration Procedures.
1.

Upon award of a contract by the District that includes Project Specific Goals; the Project Specific
Goals become covenants of performance by the Contractors and incorporated in the contract.

2.

The Contractor shall provide a listing of all subcontractors to be used in the performance of the
contract, and detailed subcontractor information to the District with each request for payment
submitted to the District or as otherwise directed by the District. The CCA and the Using
Department shall monitor subcontractor participation during the course of the contract. The
District shall have full and timely access to the Contractor's books and records, including without
limitation payroll records, tax returns and records and books of account, to determine the
Contractor's compliance with its commitment to MBE and WBE participation and the status of
any MBE or WBE performing any portion of the contract. This provision shall be in addition to,
and not a substitute for, any other provision allowing inspection of the Contractor's records by
any officer or official of the District for any purpose.

3.

The Contractor cannot make changes to the Utilization Plan or substitute MBEs or WBEs named
in the Utilization Plan without the prior written approval of the CCA, in consultation with the
Purchasing Agent and the Using Department. Unauthorized changes or substitutions shall be a
violation of this subdivision and a breach of contract, and may constitute grounds for rejection of
the bid or proposal or cause termination of the executed contract for breach, the withholding of
payment and/or subject the Contractor to contract penalties or other sanctions.
a.

All requests for changes or substitutions of a MBE or WBE Subcontractor(s) named in the
Utilization Plan shall be made to the CCA, Purchasing Agent and the Using Department in
writing, and shall clearly and fully set forth the basis for the request. A Contractor shall not
substitute a MBE or WBE subcontractor or perform the work designated for a MBE or WBE
subcontractor with its own forces unless and until the CCA, Purchasing Agent in consultation
with the Purchasing Agent and Using Department, approves such substitution in writing. A
Contractor shall not allow a substituted subcontractor to begin work until the DirectorCCA,
Purchasing Agent and the Using Department have approved the substitution.

b.

The facts supporting the request must not have been known nor reasonably should have been
known by either party before the submission of the Utilization Plan. Bid shopping is
prohibited. The Contractor must negotiate with the MBE or WBE subcontractor to resolve
the problem. Where there has been a mistake or disagreement about the scope of work, the
MBE or WBE can be substituted only where an agreement cannot be reached for a reasonable
price for the correct scope of work.

Page 12 of 32

 c.

Substitutions of the subcontractor shall be permitted only on the following bases:
(i)

Unavailability after receipt of reasonable notice to proceed.

(ii) Failure of performance.
(iii) Financial incapacity.
(iv) Refusal by the subcontractor to honor the bid or proposal price.
(v) Mistake of fact or law about the elements of the scope of work of a solicitation where
agreement upon a reasonable price cannot be reached.
(vi) Failure of the subcontractor to meet insurance, licensing or bonding requirements; or
(vii) The subcontractor's withdrawal of its bid or proposal.
d.

The final decision whether to permit or deny the proposed substitution, and the basis of any
denial, shall be communicated to the parties in writing by the CCA.

e.

Where the Contractor has established the basis for the substitution to the satisfaction of the
District, the Contractor shall make Good Faith Efforts to fulfill the Utilization Plan. The
Contractor may seek the assistance of the CCA in obtaining a new MBE or WBE. If the
Project Specific Goal(s) cannot be reached and Good Faith Efforts have been made, the
Contractor may substitute with a non-Certified Firm.

f.

If the District requires the substitution of a MBE or WBE subcontractor listed in the
Utilization Plan, the Contractor shall undertake Good Faith Efforts to fulfill the Utilization
Plan. The Contractor may seek the assistance of the CCA in obtaining a new MBE or WBE
subcontractor. If the Goal(s) cannot be reached and Good Faith Efforts have been made, the
Contractor may substitute with a non-Certified Firm.

4.

If a Contractor plans to hire a subcontractor on any scope of work that was not previously
disclosed in the Utilization Plan, the Contractor shall obtain the approval of the CCA to modify
the Utilization Plan and must make Good Faith Efforts to ensure that MBEs and WBEs have a
fair opportunity to bid on the new scope of work.

5.

Changes to the scopes of work shall be documented by the Using Department at the time they
arise, to establish the reasons for the change and the effect on achievement of the MBE or WBE
goal.

6.

Prior to contract closeout, the CCA shall evaluate the Contractor's fulfillment of the contracted
goals, taking into account all approved substitutions, terminations and changes to the contract's
scope of work. If the District determines that Good Faith Efforts to meet the MBE or WBE
commitments were not made, or that fraudulent misrepresentations have been made, or any other
breach of the contract or violation of this subdivision, a remedy or sanction may be imposed, as
provided in the contract.

N. Sanctions and Penalties.
1.

2.

The following violations of this subdivision may result in a breach of contract:
a.

Providing false or misleading information to the District in connection with submission of a
bid, responses to requests for qualifications or proposals, Good Faith Efforts documentation,
post-award compliance, or other Program operations or colluded with others to do so.

b.

Committing any other violations of this subdivision.

A Contractorcontractor or subcontractor is subject to withholding of payments under the contract,
termination of the contract for breach, contract penalties, or being barred or deemed nonPage 13 of 32

 responsive in future District solicitations and contracts as determined by the District's Purchasing
Agent, if it is found to have:
a.

Provided false or misleading information in connection with an application for certification
or recertificationthe submission of a bid, responses to requests for qualifications or proposal,
Good Faith Efforts documentation, post-award compliance, or other Program operations or
colluded with others to do so;

b.

Provided false or misleading information in connection with the submission of a bid or
proposal or documentation of Good Faith Efforts, post-award compliance, or other Program
operations or colluded with others to do so;

cb. Failed in bad faith to fulfill ProjectContract Specific Goals, thereby materially breaching the
contract; or
dc. Failed to comply in good faith with substantive provisions of this subdivision.
3.

The CCA may refer instances of non-compliance as described in Subsection N (2)(a-c) that may
warrant decertification to the CCD if any M/WBE involved was certified by Cook County, or
other applicable agency if any M/WBE involved was certified by an agency other than Cook
County.

4.

A Contractor, MBE, WBE who fails to comply with the requirements of a Utilization Plan may
be liable for a fine of $2,500.00, and such sanction, if issued, shall apply jointly and individually
to the Contractor and the relevant owner(s) of the Contractor; the MBE and the relevant owner(s)
of the MBE; and/or the WBE and the relevant owner(s) of the WBE. Such fine, once imposed,
may be taken, at the District’s sole discretion, from any retainage or future payments due from
the District to such Contractor. The determination as to whether a Contractor, MBE, or WBE has
failed to comply with the requirements of a Utilization Plan shall be made by an Administrative
Law Judge from the Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2,
Article IX, of the Cook County Code. Decisions of the Cook County Administrative Hearing
Department shall be subject to review pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Act (735 ILCS 5/3101 et seq.).

O. Program Review and Sunset.
1.

The President and the Board of Commissioners shall receive quarterly and annual reports from
the CCA detailing the District's performance under the Program.

2.

The President and the Board of Commissioners will review these reports, including the Annual
ParticipationAspirational Goals and the County'sDistrict's progress towards meeting those Goals
and eliminating discrimination in its contracting activities and marketplace.

3.

Within five (5) years afterPrior to the effectivesunset date of this ordinancesubdivision, the
District will review the operation of the Program and the evidentiary basis for the Program in
order to determine whether the District has a continuing compelling interest in remedying
discrimination against MBEs and WBEs in its construction marketplace, and the permissible
scope of any narrowly tailored remedies to redress discrimination against MBEs or WBEs so that
the District will not function as a passive participant in a discriminatory marketplace.

4.

This subdivision shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.2021.

A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that this committee
approve this Ordinance Amendment as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 14 of 32

 Aye:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)

16-0204
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
1-8-5 Minority - And Women - Owned Business Enterprises
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 5 Minority - And Women - Owned Business
Enterprises, Section 5A - Subdivision I (R) - General Provisions of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County is hereby amended as Follows:
Title 1 - Administrative
Chapter 8 - District Finances
Section 5 - Minority - And Women - Owned Business Enterprises
Section 5A - Subdivision I - General Provisions
***
(R.) Review and Sunset
1. On or before the sunset date of this Ordinance, t The District shall periodically review new
evidence to determine whether it has a compelling interest in continuing narrowly tailored
remedies to redress discrimination against M/WBEs so that the District will not function as a
passive participant in a discriminatory marketplace.
2. This Ordinance shall sunset on or before June 30, 2016.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this committee
accept the substitute to this Ordinance Amendment. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)

Page 15 of 32

 PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 16-0204 (6-29-2016)
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
1-8-5a: SUBDIVISION I—GENERAL PROVISIONS.
A. Short Title. This Subdivision shall be known and may be cited as the "Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprise General Ordinance." This Subdivision is
applicable to all Contracts, except Public Works Contracts, which are governed by Subdivision II of
this Section 1-8-5.
B.

Preface and Findings.
1.

Currently,Prior to an 2012 amendment to the Enabling Act of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County (the "District") does"), 70 ILCS 810/0.01 et seq., which authorized the District to establish
procedures to comply with State and federal regulations concerning affirmative action and the
use of small businesses or businesses owned by minorities or women in construction and
procurement contracts, the District did not have an ordinance specifically crafted to address the
underutilization of Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (M/WBEs) and barriers
to the full and fair participation of M/WBEs in District prime contracts and subcontracts.

2.

M/WBEs have contributed significantly to the economic development of the community, and
played a similar role in increasing employment, including that of minorities.

3.

M/WBEs may be awarded prime contracts and subcontracts in dollar amounts that are
disproportionately lower than the availability of such businesses to perform Forest Preserve
District contracts.

4.

In 1988, Cook County adopted a Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance
establishing an affirmative action program to ensure the full and equitable participation of
M/WBEs in the County's procurement process as both prime contractors and subcontractors.

5.

In 1993, Cook County amended its Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises
Ordinance to include specific minority and women participation goals in construction contracts.

6.

The affirmative action program for construction projects set goals of thirty (30) percent minorityowned participation and ten (10) percent women-owned participation on all County construction
projects in order to remedy ongoing discrimination and the effects of past discrimination against
women and members of minority groups, so as not to be a passive participant in such
discrimination.

7.

This program as it relates to construction projects was declared unconstitutional in Builders
Association of Greater Chicago v. Cook County, 123 F.Supp.2d 1087 (N.D. Ill. 2000), and a
permanent injunction was entered against the program preventing the County from setting
minority and women participation goals in County construction projects.

8.

The district court's holding was affirmed in Builders Association of Greater Chicago v. Cook
County, 256 F.3d 672(7th Cir. 2001).

Page 16 of 32

 9.

The County complied with the permanent injunction and ceased setting M/WBE goals on County
construction projects in early 2001, causing an immediate and drastic reduction in M/WBE
construction prime contract and subcontract participation.

10. Evidence presented at trial in Builders Association of Greater Chicago v. City of Chicago, 298
F.Supp.2d 725 (N.D. Ill. 2003) and Northern Contracting, Inc. v. Illinois Department of
Transportation, 2005 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19868 (N.D. Ill. Sept. 8, 2005) established that there is
strong evidence of the effects of past and current discrimination against M/WBEs in the
construction industry in the Chicago area.
11. The trial court's decision was affirmed in Northern Contracting, Inc. v. Illinois Department of
Transportation, 473 F.3d 715 (7th Cir. 2007).
12. In 2005, the County commissioned a review of the utilization of M/WBEs in its construction
contracts since the injunction.
13. The results of this review were presented to the County in a 2006 Report titled, "Review of
Compelling Evidence of Discrimination Against Minority- and Women-Owned Business
Enterprise in the Chicago Area Construction Industry and Recommendations for Narrowly
tailored Remedies for Cook County, Illinois" (Cook County 2006 Report).
14. The Report concluded that there is extensive evidence of discrimination against M/WBEs in the
Chicago area construction marketplace, and the participation of M/WBEs in the County's
construction prime contracts and subcontracts is below the availability of such firms.
15. The Report recommended, among other initiatives, the establishment of an interim ordinance to
remedy the underutilization of M/WBEs in the County's construction contracts and ensure that
the County is not passively participating in discrimination against Minority- and Women-Owned
Business Enterprises in the Chicago area construction marketplace.
16. In response to the Cook County 2006 Report the County adopted a Minority- and Women-Owned
Business Enterprise Construction Interim Ordinance in 2007.
17. In 2006, the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority commissioned a study for the availability of
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBEs) in its geographic and procurement markets, to ensure
that its DBE program was narrowly tailored as required by constitutional standard, which found
19.56% DBE availability in construction, 19.36% DBE availability in construction-related
professional services, and that DBE utilization had steadily increased from 2.40% in 2004 to
24.72% in 2010.
18. The County commissioned a new report, entitled "The Status of Minority- and Women-Owned
Business Enterprises Relevant to Construction Activity In and Around Cook County, Illinois"
(Cook County 2010 Study).
19. The Cook County 2010 Study made recommendations for a revised M/WBE program for
construction contracting, emphasizing the establishment of project-specific goals,
implementation of race- and gender-neutral measures, and enhancements to data gathering,
implementation and performance monitoring of the program.
20. In 2010 the U.S. Department of Justice produced a report to Congress, entitled "Compelling
Interest for Race- and Gender-Conscious Federal Contracting Programs: An Update to the May
23, 1996 Review of Barriers to Minority- and Women-Owned Businesses," that updated the
original basis for the U.S. Department of Transportation's DBE program and concluded that
discriminatory barriers continue to impede the ability of M/WBEs to compete with other firms on
a fair and equal footing in government contracting markets.

Page 17 of 32

 21. Based upon this evidentiary record, the District concludesconcluded that in the absence of
affirmative action remedies for both procurement and construction contracts, the District will
likely be a passive participant in discrimination against M/WBEs.
22. Based upon the experiences of other local governments and other entities and the trial records in
BAGC v. Chicago and Northern Contracting v. Illinois DOT, race- and gender-neutral measures
have not and are not likely to eliminate the competitive disadvantage of M/WBEs in participating
in District contracts due to discrimination in the local economy.
C.

Policy and Purpose.
11. It is the continuing public policy of the District to strive to achieve the full and equitable
participation of Local Small Businesses owned by Economically Disadvantaged minorities and
women in the District's procurement process as both prime contractors and subcontractors.
2.

The District is committed to a policy of preventing and reducing discrimination in the award of
or participation in District contracts and eliminating arbitrary barriers to full participation in such
contracts by all persons regardless of race, ethnicity or sex.

23. It is the District's desire to affirm its commitment to full and fair opportunities for all firms to
participate in its procurement and construction contracts.
34. The District's procurement practices in the past may have contributed to the above identified
underutilization of M/WBEs on District contracts.
45. To offset the effects of negative disparate impacts on Small Businesses owned and managed by
Economically Disadvantaged minorities and women with respect to public and private
transactions; reduced earnings among County-based Small Businesses owned by minorities and
women; reduced business formation among County-based minorities and women; a chronic lack
of wealth and financial liquidity among the County’s minority communities; the obstacles and
hindrances in obtaining business loans faced by County-based Small Businesses owned by
minorities and women; the underutilization of regionally-based Small Businesses owned by
minorities and women in public and private-sector business; and the disproportionate levels of
poverty among minorities in the County, the purpose of this Division is to establish and implement
goals for participation of M/WBEs in procurements, in compliance with all applicable laws.
6.

The numerical goals for the participation of M/WBEs in District contracts are commensurate with
the availability of M/WBEs to perform District work as established by the evidentiary record.

557. The District may undertake additional efforts to gather evidence relevant to its compelling interest
in remedying discrimination in its geographic and procurement markets and narrowly tailoring
any race- and gender-conscious remedies to that evidence.
D. Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Subdivision I shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning. Additional terms applicable to Subdivision II are set forth in such subdivision.
1.

Annual Participation Goals means the targeted levels of participation established by the District
for the annual aggregate participation of MBEs and WBEs in procurement contracts.

21. Affiliate of a person or entity means a person or entity that directly or indirectly through one (1)
or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person
or entity. In determining Affiliation, the District shall consider all appropriate factors, including
common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships.
2.

Applicant means a person who submits documents and information seeking certification,
continued certification, or re-certification as an MBE or WBE to Cook County’s Office of
Contract Compliance.
Page 18 of 32

 3.

Broker means a Person who or which neither manufactures the supplies, equipment or goods
supplied ornor owns or operates a store, warehouse or other establishment (and related
distribution equipment) in which it maintains, consistent with industry standards, an inventory of
the supplies, equipment or goods, materials or supplies required for performance of the
Contractcontract for sale in the normal course of business. A Broker provides no substantial
service other than acting as a conduit between his or her supplier and his or her customer.

34. Business means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, Joint
Venture or any other business or professional entity.
5.

Certified or Certification means registration of the Minority Business Enterprise or Women's
Business Enterprise status of a business in the County's Directory of Minority Business
Enterprises and Women's Business Enterprises ("M/WBE Directory).or registration as a minority
or women owned business by a reciprocal agency acceptable to the County.

46. Certified Firm means a firm that has been accepted by the County as Certified.
7.

Commercially Useful Function shall have the meaning set forth in subsection J. of this
Subdivision.

58. Contract Compliance Administrator or CCA means the Forest Preserve District Contract
Compliance Administrator.
69. Contract Compliance Director or CCD means the Cook County Contract Compliance Director.
The CCD also shall be empowered to act as, or assist, the CCA with respect to the functions of
the CCA referenced herein.
710. Contractor means any Business that seeks to enter into a general contract with the District, other
than for construction, and includes all partners and Affiliates Business.
11. Contract Specific Goals means the goals established under this Subdivision that are based upon
relevant factors including, but not limited to, the availability of MBEs or WBEs in the scopes of
work of the Projectproject.
812. District means the Forest Preserve District of Cook County and its participating Using
Department.
13. District Marketplace means the six-county region, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry and Will.
914. Economically Disadvantaged means an individual withhaving a Personal Net Worth less than two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00)), indexed annually for the Chicago Metro Area Consumer Price
Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, published by the U.S. Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Standards, beginning January 20112008.
1015.
Expertise means demonstrated skills, knowledge or ability to perform, as defined by
normal industry practices, including licensure where required, in a field.
11. Good Faith Efforts shall have the meaning set forth in this Subdivision.
1216.
Good Faith Efforts means actions undertaken by a Contractor to achieve an MBE or WBE
goal, which, by their scope, intensity, and appropriateness to the objective, can reasonably be
expected to fulfill such goals.
17. Joint Venture means an association formed byof two (2) or more Persons (as this term is defined
below) to carry out a singleBusinesses proposing to perform a for profit business enterprise, for
which purpose they combine their expertise, property, capital, efforts, and skills. Joint Ventures
must have an agreement in writing specifying the terms and conditions of the relationships
between the partners and their relationship and responsibility to the contract.
Page 19 of 32

 1318.
Local Business means a Business located within the District'sDistrict Marketplace which
has the majority of its regular, full time work force located within the District'sDistrict
Marketplace.
1419.

Local Small Business means a Local Business which is also a Small Business.

1520.
Manufacturer means a Person (as this term is defined below) that operates or maintains a
factory or establishment that produces, on the premises, the materials, supplies, articles, or
equipment required for a Procurementunder the contract and of the general character described
by the specifications.
1621.

Minority Business Enterprise or MBE means a Business:

a.

Which is at least fifty-one (51) percent owned by one (1) or more Minority Individuals who
are Economically Disadvantaged, or in the case of a publicly owned Business, at least fiftyone (51) percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one (1) or more such
Minority Individuals;

b.

Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are
independently managed and controlled by one (1) or more Minority Individuals;

c.

Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

d.

Which is a Certified Firm; and

e.

Which is a Local Small Business.

1722.

Minority Individual means an individuala natural person in one (1) of the following groups:

a.

African-Americans or Blacks, which includes persons having origins in any of the Black
racial groups of Africa;

b.

Hispanic-Americans, which includes persons ofwho are Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban,
Caribbean, Dominican, Central or South American, regardless of race;

c.

Native-Americans, which includes persons who are American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or
Native Hawaiians; or

d.

Asian-Americans (, which includes persons whose origins are in any of the original peoples
of the Far East Asia, Southeast Asia, the islands of the Pacific or the Northern Marianas, or
the Indian Subcontinent);; or

e.

OtherIndividual members of other groups, including, but not limited to, Arab-Americans,
found by the District to be socially disadvantagedSocially Disadvantaged by having suffered
racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society, without regard to
individual qualities, resulting in decreased opportunities to compete in the District's
Marketplace.

1823.
Owned means having all of the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of
disposition, and the sharing in all of the risks, responsibilities and profits commensurate with the
degree of ownership interest.
1924.
Person(s) or Personsperson(s) means any individualnatural person, corporation,
partnership, Joint Venture, trust, association, limited liability company, sole proprietorship or
other legal entity.
2025.
Personal Net Worth means the net value of the assets) of an individual after total liabilities
are deducted. An individual's personal net worthPersonal Net Worth does not include the
individual's ownership interest in an applicantApplicant or other Certified MBE or WBE,
provided that the other PersonCertified MBE or WBE is certified by a governmental agency that
Page 20 of 32

 meets the District's eligibility criteria or the individual's equity in his or her primary place or
residence. As to assets held jointly with a spouse, an individual's Personal Net Worth includes
only that individual's share of such assets. An individual's Personal Net Worth also includes the
present value of the individual's interest in any vested pension plans, individual retirement
accounts, or other retirement savings or investment programs less the tax and interest penalties
that would be imposed if the asset were distributed at the present time, and shall not include future
payments receivable from a pension or Social Security.
2126.
Program means the Minority- and Women-Owned Businesses Enterprise General Program
established in this division, and shall include the Public Works Participation ProgramSubdivision.
22. Program Goals means the goals set forth in subsection H. of this Subdivision.
2327.
Program Goals mean the targeted levels of participation established by the District for the
periodic aggregate participation of MBEs and WBEs in District non-construction contracts
28. Public Works means all fixed works constructed or demolished by the CountyDistrict, or paid for
wholly or in part out of public funds administered by the CountyDistrict. "Public Works" as
defined herein includes all projects financed in whole or in part with bonds, grants, loans, or other
funds made available by or through federal or State government, or the County.local government.
“Public Works" includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or disassembly work performed on
equipment whether owned, leased, or rented. "Public Works" does not include projects
undertaken by the owner at an owner-occupied single-family residence or at an owner-occupied
unit of a multifamily residence. "Public Works" includes any maintenance, repair, assembly, or
disassembly work performed on equipment whether owned, leased, or rented.
2429.

Public Works Contracts means contracts for Public Works.

30. Purchasing Agent means the Purchasing Agent of the District.
2531.
Regular Dealer means a Person that owns, operates, or maintains a store, warehouse, or
other establishment in which the materials, supplies, articles or equipment of the general character
described by the specifications and required forunder the Procurementcontract are bought, kept
in stock, and regularly sold or leased to the public in the usual course of business. To be a Regular
Dealer, the Person must be an established businessregular Business that engages, as its principal
business and under its own name, in the Procurementpurchase and sale or lease of the products in
question. A Person may be a Regular Dealer in such bulk items as petroleum products, steel,
cement, gravel, stone, or asphalt without owning, operating, or maintaining a place of business if
the Person both owns and operates distribution equipment for the products. Any supplementing
of such Person'sa Person’s distribution equipment shall be by a long-term lease agreement and
not on an ad hoc or contract-by-contract basis. Packagers, manufacturermanufacture
representatives, or other Persons who arrange or expedite transactions are not Regular Dealers.
2632.
Small Business means a small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business
Administration, pursuant to the business size standards found in 13 CFR Part 121, relevant to the
scope(s) of work the Person seeks to perform on Contractscontracts. A Person is not an eligible
small business enterprise in any calendar fiscal year in which its gross receipts, averaged over the
Person's previous five (5) fiscal years, exceed the size standards of 13 CFR Part 121.
2733.
Socially Disadvantaged means an individual who hashaving been subjected to racial,
ethnic or gender prejudice or cultural bias within American society because of his or her identity
as a member of a group, and without regard to individual qualities. Social disadvantage must
stem, stemming from circumstances beyond the individual'srelevant person’s control. A Socially
Disadvantaged individualnatural person must be a citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident
of the United States.
Page 21 of 32

 2834.
Using Department means the department withinas defined by the District responsible for
initiating the procurement process.
2935.
Utilization Plan" means a plan for utilization of M/WBEs described in subsection J. of this
Subdivision.

E.

F.

3036.

Woman means a natural person of the female gender.

3137.

Woman-Owned Business Enterprise or WBE means a Business:

a.

Which is at least fifty-one (51) percent owned by one (1) or more Women who are
Economically Disadvantaged, or in the case of a publicly owned Business, at least fifty-one
(51) percent of all classes of the stock of which is owned by one (1) or more such Women;

b.

Whose management, policies, major decisions and daily business operations are
independently managed and controlled by one (1) or more such Women;

c.

Which performs a Commercially Useful Function;

d.

Which is a Certified Firm; and

e.

Which is a Local Small Business.

Race- and Gender-Neutral Measures to Implement the Program. The District has adopted and shall
continue to develop and use race- and gender-neutral measures to facilitate the participation of all firms
in the procurement process. These measures include, but are not limited to, the following:
1.

Establishing schedules for submitting Bids and Quotations with adequate time frames for
identifying and contacting M/WBEs qualified to participate in the Procurementprocurement;

2.

Segmenting Procurementsprocurements to facilitate the participation of MBEs, WBEs and other
Small Businesses;

3.

Providing timely information on contracting procedures, Bid preparation and specific contracting
opportunities;

4.

Holding pre-Bid conferences, where appropriate, to explain the projects and to encourage
Contractors to use available qualified M/WBEs;

5.

Reviewing retainage, bonding and insurance requirements to eliminate unnecessary barriers to
contracting with the District;

6.

Collecting information from all Contractors detailing the Bids or proposals received from all
subcontractors for Procurementsprocurements and the expenditures to M/WBEs;

7.

At the discretion of the CCA, in cooperation with the Purchasing Agent, periodically entering
into a procurement process without Program Goals or ProjectContract Specific Goals in order to
determine MBE and WBE utilization in the absence of such goals;

8.

Referring complaints of discrimination to Cook County's Commission on Human Rights, or other
appropriate authority, for investigation.

Program Administration.
1.

The CCA, in conjunction with the District's Purchasing Agent and the CCD, shall administer the
Program. The duties of the CCA shall include:
a.

Formulating, proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Program.

Page 22 of 32

 b.

Providing information and assistance to M/WBEs and Small Businesses relating to the
Program, serving as a liaison to community, contractor, professional and supplier groups,
and serving as a liaison to various other associations and organizations.

c.

Verifying that Persons interested in participating in the Program have M/WBE certifications
from the County of Cook and/or the City of Chicago,are Certified and monitoring the
directory of Certified M/WBEs maintained by Cook County.

d.

Establishing Contract Specific Goals, in collaboration with the Using Department, based
upon the availability of M/WBEs to provide the supplies, materials and equipment or
services required by the Contractcontract.

e.

Monitoring Contractscontracts to evaluate compliance with Contract Specific Goals and
commitments.

f.

Cooperating with and providing assistance to Using Departments to facilitate participation
by M/WBEs in Procurementsprocurements.

g.

Reviewing, approving, and, if necessary, rejecting Utilization Plans for achievement of
Contract Specific Goals, evaluating the extent to which goals were achieved.

h.

Monitoring contracts to ensure compliance with subsection O. of this Subdivision, Prompt
Payment of M/WBEs.

i.

Receiving, reviewing, and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the Program.

j.

Evaluating the effectiveness and utility of the Program.

k.

Monitoring the Program and the District's progress towards the Program Goals.

l.

Impose sanctions and penalties as described in Subsection R.

2.

The CCA shall report to the Contract Compliance committeeCommittee on an annual basis, or as
requested by the Contract Compliance Committee, information regarding the administration of
the Program and its progress toward achieving the Program Goals.

3.

Using Departments shall cooperate with the CCA in the administration of the Program,
specifically including assisting the CCA with setting Contract Specific Goals and assisting in the
identification of available MBEs and WBEs.

4.

Intergovernmental Agreement between District and County. The Forest Preserve District of Cook
County shall provide staff and/or reimbursement to Cook County as set out in an
intergovernmental agreement for the CCD to also act as, or assist, the CCA.

G. Contract Compliance Committee. The Contract Compliance Committee ("CCC") shall be a Standing
Committee of the Board, consisting of seven (7) members of the Board selected as set forth in Title 1,
Chapter 5, Section 1-5-2 of the Code. The CCC shall review procedures, proposed modifications to
the Program or this Section 1-8-5, and complaints as referred by the CCA or the Purchasing Agent.
H. Program Goals.
1.

The District aspires to the following annual Program Goals: A goal of twenty-five (25) percent
of the annual total dollar amount of Contractscontracts other than Public Works Contracts to
MBEs, and ten (10) percent of the total dollar amount of such Contractscontracts to WBEs.

2.

The CCA, following the compilation and stringent review of the most current data that is feasibly
and practicably available relative to the availability of MBEs and WBEs who have the capacity
to successfully supply the relevant goods and services and in consultation with CCD, the
Purchasing Agent and the Using AgencyDepartment shall establish Contract Specific Goals for
each Contract. In establishing a Contract Specific Goal, the CCAcontract, which shall consider
Page 23 of 32

 the availability of sufficient Certified MBEs and WBEs be incorporated into each bid notice and
Request for the supplies, materials and equipment or services required as part of the
ProcurementProposals. No goal shall be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate
against any Person on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
I.

Program Eligibility. Only Businesses that meet the criteria as determined by the CCD for the County
of Cook, for certification as a MBE or WBE may participate in the Program.

J.

Utilization Plan; Commercially Useful Function.
1.

Utilization Plan Required. The Purchasing Agent shall include in Contract Documentscontract
documents for Contractscontracts covered by this Division, a requirement that a Utilization Plan
be submitted from a bidder or proposer that either: (i) commits to M/WBE participation equal to
or greater than the applicable Program Goals or Contract Specific Goals, or (ii) requests a waiver
of all or a portion of a Program Goals or Contract Specific Goals based on the bidder'bidder's or
proposer's good faith effortsGood Faith Efforts to meet the goals. The Utilization Plan shall be in
such form and contain such information as is required by the CCA. Failure to include a Utilization
Plan will render the submission not Responsive.responsive. In the event a bid or proposal leads
to a contract with the District, the Utilization Plan as approved by the CCA shall be incorporated
as a material commitment between the Contractor and all relevant M/WBEs and the Contractor
and the District. The CCA shall review and either approve or reject the Utilization Plan. For
purposes of evaluationevaluating a Utilization Plan, only M/WBEs which perform a
Commercially Useful Function shall be considered.

2.

Commercially Useful Function. To be considered in meeting Goals, a M/WBE must perform a
Commercially Useful Function, as determined pursuant to subsection K.. "Commercially Useful
Function" means the performance of a distinct element of work required for the
Procurementprocurement, with the requisite skill and expertiseExpertise.
a.

In the case of a Procurementprocurement of goods or equipment, ordering from a
manufacturer or distributor for delivery directly to the Using AgencyDepartment is not a
Commercially Useful Function; provided, however, that to the extent such practice is
consistent with normal industry practices, aan M/WBE subcontractor may enter into second
tier subcontracts. However, if aan M/WBE Contractor or subcontractor subcontracts a
significantly greater portion of the work of the Contractcontract than would be expected on
the basis of normal industry practices, the M/WBE shall be presumed not to be performing
a Commercially Useful Function.

b.

In the case of a Procurementprocurement of services, a Person which subcontracts with
another Person to perform the services required does not perform a Commercially Useful
Function unless such Person also performs significant supervisory or management
responsibilities. A Broker does not fulfill a Commercially Useful Function. In the case of a
Joint Venture partner, each Joint Venture partner must perform a Commercially Useful
Function.

3.

M/WBE does not perform a Commercially Useful Function if its role is limited to that of an extra
participant in the Contractcontract through which funds are passed in order to obtain the
appearance of M/WBE participation.

4.

When aan M/WBE is presumed not to be performing a Commercially Useful Function, the
Certified M/WBE and the Person seeking to include that M/WBE in its Utilization Plan, may
present evidence to rebut this presumption.

5.

Once a Utilization Plan has been approved, the Contractor cannot make changes to the Utilization
Plan, including substituting M/WBEs named in the Utilization Plan, without the prior written
Page 24 of 32

 approval of the CCA, Purchasing Agent and the Using Department. The CCA shall promulgate
procedures for changes to the Utilization Plan. Unauthorized changes or substitutions shall be a
violation of this subdivision and a breach of contract, and may constitute grounds for rejection of
the bid or proposal or cause termination of the executed contract for breach, the withholding of
payment and/or subject the Contractor to contract penalties or other sanctions.
K. Methods to Achieve Goals and Compliance. A Person may achieve the applicable Contract Specific
Goals in any one (1) or more of the methods set forth below. The same M/WBE, whether as a
contractor, subcontractor or supplier, cannotmay not be utilized duplicatively as both a MBE and a
WBE on the same Contractcontract.
1.

M/WBE as Prime Contractor. An MBE or WBE may count its own participation toward the
achievement of the applicable MBE or WBE goal. Such M/WBE will be required to meet the
other goalgoals by another method described herein. If a WBE is also a MBE, such WBE's
participation may count toward either the MBE or WBE Goal but not both.

2.

Joint Venture with One or More M/WBE. Where a Person engages in a Joint Venture with one (1)
or more M/WBEs, the Utilization Plan shall include a written agreement providingcontaining at
least the information set forth in this Subsection. The CCA shall consider the following in
determining whether the proposed Utilization Plan satisfies the Program Goals based upon such
written Joint Venture agreement and the Utilization Plan.

3.
L.

a.

Each Joint Venture partner's initial capital investment;

b.

The extent to which theeach M/WBE's proposed participation in the performance of the
Contractcontract constitutes a Commercially Useful Function;

c.

Whether the M/WBE's sharerelevant M/WBE shares in the risks and profits of the Joint
Venture isare proportional to their ownership interest;

d.

Whether the relevant M/WBE will have duties, responsibilities, management Controlcontrol
and risk with respect to the Joint Venture in proportion to its ownership interest.

Subcontracting. A Person may achieve the Contract Specific Goals by means of subcontracting
with, or purchasing from one (1) or more M/WBEs.

Request for a Total or Partial Waiver of the Contract Specific Goals; Good Faith Efforts.
1.

Parties submitting bids or proposals may in all instances request a partial or full waiver of one or
more established Contract Specific Goals for M/WBE participation. In reviewing a request for a
partial or total request for waiver of a Contract Specific Goal, the CCA shall determine whether
a Person has made good faith effortsGood Faith Efforts to meet the applicable Goals and to what
extent the waiver request should be granted. In determining whether a Person has made good faith
effortsGood Faith Efforts, the CCA will consider whether the Person has taken the following
actions:
a.

Reviewed lists of M/WBEs maintained by Cook County and other State and local
governments and agencies to identify qualified M/WBEs for solicitation for Bids;

b.

Divided Procurementprocurement requirements into small tasks or quantities. This shall
include, where appropriate, whether the person has broken out Contractcontract work items
into economically feasible units, consistent with the availability of M/WBEs, to facilitate
M/WBE participation, even when the Contractor would otherwise prefer to perform these
work items with its own forces;

c.

Adjusted any insurance requirements imposed by the Person seeking M/WBEs, or otherwise
assisted M/WBEs in obtaining any required insurance, where economically feasible, to
encourage participation by M/WBEs;
Page 25 of 32

 d.

Made timely attempts to contact M/WBEs providing the type of supplies, equipment, goods
or services required for the Procurementprocurement; and provided them with a convenient
and timely opportunity to obtain and review all information concerning the
Procurementprocurement necessary to enable such M/WBE to respond;

e.

Followed up on initial contacts of M/WBEs to determine if they are interested participating
in the Procurementprocurement;

f.

NegotiateNegotiated in good faith and on a timely basis with M/WBEs to enable them to
participate in the Procurementprocurement. Evidence of such negotiation includes the
names, addresses, and telephone numbers of M/WBEs that were contacted; a description of
the information provided regarding the plans and specifications for the work selected for
subcontracting; and why agreements could not be reached. The Contractor may not reject
M/WBEs as being unqualified without sound reasons. That there may be some additional
costs involved in finding and using M/WBEs is not in itself sufficient reason for a
Contractor's failure to meet the Goals, as long as such costs are reasonable;

g.

MakeMade efforts to assist interested M/WBEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies,
materials, or related assistance or services, where appropriate; provided, however, that such
efforts shall not be inconsistent with the requirement that the M/WBE be responsible for
actually obtaining and paying for such items;

h.

EstablishEstablished delivery schedules which will encourage participation by M/WBEs,
where the requirements of the Procurementprocurement permit;

i.

UseUsed the services and assistance of the CCD's or CCA'sCCA and the District's staff, the
Small Business Administration, the Office of Minority Business Enterprises of the U.S.
Department of Commerce;

j.

Timely notifynotified appropriate community and minority and women's business
organizations identified as assist agencies of the opportunity for participation in the
Procurementprocurement.

k.

Established and/or maintained a mentor-protégé agreement with one or more M/WBEs that
is enforceable and that, in the judgement of the CCA, has performance standards and
outcomes that are clearly established and effective in terms of assisting the M/WBE in
acquiring additional skills, experience and relationships helpful to the long-term success of
the M/WBE.

2.

In determining whether a Bidder or Respondent has made Good Faith Efforts, the levels of
participation by M/WBEs set forth in Utilization Plans submitted by other Persons for the same
Procurementprocurement may be considered. For example, if the apparent successful Bidder or
Respondent fails to meet the Contract Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average M/WBE
participation obtained by other Bidders or Respondents, this may be evidence that the apparent
successful Bidder or Respondent made Good Faith Efforts.

3.

Where the District requires professional services, the District must be able to call upon those
professionals whose particular training and experience are most beneficial to the District.
a.

The District setsaspires to an annual goal of thirty-five (35) percent aggregate M/WBE
participation for the total professional services and consulting services utilized by the
District.

b.

A Utilization Plan shall be required, and if a waiver or partial waiver is requested, "good
faith" efforts shall be demonstrated as set forth in this subsection L.; provided, however, that
such Persons shall not be required to attempt to subcontract with M/WBEs if subcontractors
Page 26 of 32

 would not typically be utilized for the type of Procurementprocurement. In such cases, the
Person shall document the reasons for not subcontracting in a waiver request.
c.

The Contractor will endeavor to maximize use of M/WBEs for supplies, equipment, goods
or services for such Contractor's business operations not specifically for the
Procurementprocurement.

d.

If such Person is required to have or has an affirmative action plan and goals, such plan and
goals shall be submitted with their Utilization Plan. The CCA shall compare such plan and
goals with the Person's actual affirmative action achievements and such achievements may
be considered by the District in future Procurementsprocurements.

44. Mentor/protégé agreements. Where a contractor enters into mentor/protégé agreement with a
M/WBE to improve or develop certain aspects of the business of the M/WBE, the CCA shall
evaluate the effect of such agreement as a factor in determining Good Faith Efforts. The
mentor/protégé agreement may provide for the contractor to assist the M/WBE in such areas as
technical aspects of the M/WBE’s business, improving financial management, or providing onthe-job training. To constitute Good Faith Efforts, the mentor/protégé agreement shall satisfy the
following requirements.

5.

a.

The M/WBE performs a Commercially Useful Function;

b.

The agreement shall be included in the Utilization Plan; and

c.

The agreement clearly defines the respective responsibilities of the contractor and the
M/WBE and includes specific, measurable goals to be attained by both parties through the
performance of the agreement. In order to be a factor in establishing best efforts, the
mentor/protégé agreement must be for a reasonable period of time.

The CCA may grant a total or partial waiver based upon the following criteria:
a.

There are not sufficient M/WBEs capable of providing the supplies, equipment, goods or
services required for the Procurementprocurement;

b.

The Procurementprocurement cannot reasonably be divided;

c.

The price required by potential M/WBEs is more than ten (10) percent above competitive
levels; and

d.

Any other factor relating to good faith effortsGood Faith Efforts as set forth in the Person's
Utilization Plan.

e.

The CCA shall, from time to time, by way of seminars and internet-based communications
make available to the business community such information and documents as will assist the
community in understanding the manner in which a full or partial waiver may be requested,
and the manner in which such a request may be supported. In addition, the CCA shall make
representatives available to confer on the subject of waivers with parties who plan on
submitting particular bids or proposals.

M. Calculating M/WBE Participation. In calculating a M/WBE's participation, only dollar amounts
commensurate with a M/WBE's performance of a Commercially Useful Function may be counted.
1.

The dollar value of that portion of a Procurementprocurement that is performed by the
M/WBEs'WBE’s own forces shall be counted, including the cost of supplies, materials and
equipment furnished by the M/WBE for the Procurementprocurement, whether purchased or
leased (except to the extent purchased or leased from the Contractor or the Contractor's Affiliate).

2.

The dollar amount of fees or commissions charged by a M/WBE for providing a bona fide service,
such as professional, technical, consultant, managerial, insurance brokerage or surety services,
Page 27 of 32

 shall be counted, provided the fee is reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees
customarily charged for similar services.
3.

When aan M/WBE is a Joint Venture partner, only the dollar value of the distinct, clearly defined
work performed by the M/WBE with its own forces shall be counted.

4.

Only the dollar value must be commensurate with the work the M/WBE actually performs.Only
expenditures to a MBE or WBE that is performing a Commercially Useful Function shall be
counted. To determine whether a MBE or WBE is performing a Commercially Useful Function,
the District will evaluate the amount of work subcontracted, industry practices, whether the
amount the MBE or WBE is to be paid under the contract is commensurate with the work it is
actually performing and other relevant factors. To perform a Commercially Useful Function, the
MBE or WBE must be responsible, with respect to materials and supplies used on the contract,
for negotiating price, determining quality and quantity, ordering the material, installing (where
applicable) and paying for the material itself. A MBE or WBE does not perform a Commercially
Useful Function if its role is limited to that of an extra participant in the contract through which
funds are passed in order to obtain the appearance of MBE or WBE participation. If a MBE or
WBE subcontracts a greater portion of the work of a contract than would be expected based on
normal industry practice, it is presumed not to perform a Commercially Useful Function. When
a MBE or WBE is presumed not to be performing a Commercially Useful Function, the Certified
Firm may present evidence to rebut this presumption.

55 Only the dollar amount actually paid to the M/WBE shall be counted toward the participation of
a M/WBE.
6.

One hundred (100) percent of the cost of the supplies, equipment or goods obtained from a
M/WBE Manufacturer or Regular Dealer shall be counted.

67. One hundred (100) percent of the fees or transportation charges for the delivery of supplies,
equipment, materials or goods shall be counted only if the payment of such fees is a customary
industry practice and such fees are commensurate with fees customarily charged for similar
services.
78. If afor reasons associated with malfeasance, fraud or other factors set forth in Subsection R.
Sanctions and Penalties, an M/WBE ceases to be Certified during its performance on a
Procurementprocurement, the dollar value of work performed under a Contractcontract with that
PersonM/WBE after it has ceased to be Certified shall not be counted.
8.

OnlyIf for other reasons not associated with malfeasance, fraud or other factors set forth in
Subsection R. Sanctions and Penalties, an M/WBE ceases to be Certified during its performance
on a procurement, the dollar amount actually paid to the M/WBE value of work performed under
a contract with that M/WBE after it has ceased to be Certified shall be counted towardfor the
remaining term of the participation of a M/WBEcontract.

N. Review of Contract Performance.
1.

Compliance with Utilization Plan. The CCA shall review the Contractor'sContractor and M/WBE
compliance with its Utilization Plan as necessary during the performance of the Contractcontract.
The CCA may establish such requirements for periodic Contractor and M/WBE reporting on
compliance with its Utilization Plan as the CCA determines appropriate and necessary. A
Contractor and M/WBE shall be required to provide any additional requested compliance
documentation within fourteen (14) days of request by the CCA.
a.

If the CCA determines that the Contractor or M/WBE has failed to comply with itsa
Utilization Plan and has failed to provide a cure accepted by the CCA in his or her discretion,
Page 28 of 32

 the CCA shall notify the Purchasing Agent of such failure. The Purchasing Agent shall then
send notice of default to the Contractor or M/WBE, or both, and the Contractor and M/WBE
shall have such time to cure the default as is provided in the Contractcontract. If no such
period is provided, the Contractor or M/WBE, as the case may be, shall have ten (10) days
to cure such default. For purposes of this section, providing a plan for bringing the
Contractcontract into compliance with the Utilization Plan may constitute a cure, if
compliance cannot reasonably be achieved within the applicable cure period, and if
compliance is achieved in accordance with such plan.
b.

2.

If a Contractor or M/WBE fails to provide any documentation required by the CCA, the CCA
shall notify the CPO Purchasing Agent of such failure. The Purchasing Agent shall then send
notice of default to the Contractor or M/WBE, and the Contractor or M/WBE shall have such
time to cure the default as is provided in the Contractcontract. If no such period is provided,
the Contractor shall have ten (10) days to cure such default.

Bid and Target Market Programs. To address more specifically the barriers to M/WBE
participation as prime Contractors in District work, the CCA may recommend to the Purchasing
Agent to institute the following special M/WBE bidding provisions, following determination of
the appropriateness of such provisions.
a.

In connection with the award of a Contractcontract subject to competitive bidding on which
a M/WBE has bid and where the M/WBE is bidding on the item in question for the first time;
and has never successfully bid on a Forest Preserve District of Cook County purchasing
contract, the CCA may, at the opening of the bids on the item, compare the M/WBE Bid
with the lowest Bid, and, if the M/WBE's Bid is closely competitive as defined by guidelines
to be established by the CCA with that of lowest actual Bids, direct the Purchasing Agent to
declare the M/WBE the successful Bidder. A M/WBE may use this procedure only once to
become the successful Bidder on any particular item. Thereafter, the M/WBE must be totally
competitive in terms of price to be the successful Bidder.

b.

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall develop and coordinate a target market
program as follows:
(i)

The CCA shall review the availability of M/WBEs providing various goods and services
and shall identify for inclusion in a potential program for bidding among M/WBE
Persons certain commodity areas with sufficient M/WBE availability to ensure that the
District receives a competitive price. The CCA shall report his/her findings and
recommendations to the Contract Compliance Committee;

(ii) Upon a determination by the CCA that such a program is advisable for any particular
commodity procurement; the CCA will institute the following procedures:
(a) The CCA will notify the Purchasing Agent of identification of those commodity
codes appropriate for a target market program;
(b) To the extent practicable, the Purchasing Agent, with the aid of the CCA, shall
divide procurement in the designated commodity areas into economically feasible
sizes to facilitate Bids or offers from M/WBEs and shall designate contracts to be
offered under the target market program;
(c) The Purchasing Agent shall offer M/WBEs the opportunity to bid on such contracts
in a limited competition;
(d) All standard District rules for bidding will then become effective and, provided
that at least three (3) M/WBEs Bid or make an offer on the contract, the lowest
Responsive and Responsible Bidder among the M/WBEs will receive the contract;
Page 29 of 32

 (e) In the event less than three (3) M/WBEs Bid or make an offer on the
Contractcontract or if there is no Responsive Bid or offer received from a
Responsible M/WBE, the Purchasing Agent shall rebid the Contractcontract not
subject to the target market program.
(iii) Participation in the target market program shall be limited to Minority Business
Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises and Joint Ventures consisting exclusively
of Minority Business Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises or both. The M/WBE
Contractor on a target market Contractcontract may subcontract up to forty-nine (49)
percent of the dollar value of the target market Contractcontract to subcontractors who
are not Minority Business Enterprises or Women's Business Enterprises.
O. Prompt Payment of Firms. If an invoice from a Contractor includes payment for supplies, equipment,
goods or services furnished by a M/WBE, Contractor shall pay such M/WBE for such supplies,
equipment, goods or services within fourteen (14) days after receipt of payment from the District. The
CCA shall investigate any complaint or charge of excessive delay in payment, and shall report the
results of such investigations to the Contract Compliance Committee and to the District Comptroller.
Failure of Contractor to comply with this Section shall constitute a material breach of the
Contractcontract.
P.

Reporting and Review. The CCA shall report to the Board on an annual basis with respect to the
following:
1.

The percentage of the total dollar amount of Procurementsprocurements for such year actually
received by M/WBEs;

2.

The number of MBEs and WBEs available for participation in Procurementsprocurements, by
category;

3.

An evaluation of the effectiveness of this division in ensuring equitable participation by M/WBEs
in Procurementsprocurements;

4.

An assessment of the continuing need for the Program;

5.

Identification of any enforcement problems; and

6.

Any recommendations with respect to modifying or improving the Program, including
discontinuing or modifying Program Goals in those cases where Minority Business Enterprises
and Women's Business Enterprises no longer are disadvantaged by the effects of discrimination
in their participation in Procurementsprocurements.

Q. Prohibited Provisions. Any agreement between a Contractor and a MBE or WBE in which the
Contractor requires that the MBE or WBE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors
is prohibited.
RR. Sanctions and Penalties.
1.

2.

The following violations of this subdivision may result in a breach of contract:
a.

Providing false or misleading information to the District in connection with submission of a
bid, responses to requests for qualifications or proposals, Good Faith Efforts documentation,
post-award compliance, or other Program operations, or colluded with others to do so.

b.

Committing any other violations of this subdivision.

A contractor or subcontractor is subject to withholding of payments under the contract,
termination of the contract for breach, contract penalties, or being barred or deemed nonresponsive in future District solicitations and contracts as determined by the District's Purchasing
Agent, if it is found to have:
Page 30 of 32

 S.

a.

Provided false or misleading information in connection with the submission of a bid,
responses to requests for qualifications or proposal, Good Faith Efforts documentation, postaward compliance, or other Program operations, or colluded with others to do so;

b.

Failed in bad faith to fulfill Contract Specific Goals, thereby materially breaching the
contract; or

c.

Failed to comply in good faith with substantive provisions of this subdivision.

3.

The CCA may refer instances of non-compliance as described in Subsection R (2)(a-c) that may
warrant decertification to the CCD if any M/WBE involved was certified by Cook County, or
other applicable agency if any M/WBE involved was certified by an agency other than Cook
County.

4.

A Contractor, MBE, WBE who fails to comply with the requirements of a Utilization Plan may
be liable for a fine of $2,500.00, and such sanction, if issued, shall apply jointly and individually
to the Contractor and the relevant owner(s) of the Contractor; the MBE and the relevant owner(s)
of the MBE; and/or the WBE and the relevant owner(s) of the WBE. Such fine, once imposed,
may be taken, at the District’s sole discretion, from any retainage or future payments due from
the District to such Contractor. The determination as to whether a Contractor, MBE, or WBE has
failed to comply with the requirements of a Utilization Plan shall be made by an Administrative
Law Judge from the Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2,
Article IX, of the Cook County Code. Decisions of the Cook County Administrative Hearing
Department shall be subject to review pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Act (735 ILCS 5/3101 et seq.).

Review and Sunset.
1.

On or before the sunset date of this Ordinance, the District shall review new evidence to determine
whether it has a compelling interest in continuing narrowly tailored remedies to redress
discrimination against M/WBEs so that the District will not function as a passive participant in a
discriminatory marketplace.

2.

This Ordinance shall sunset on or before June 30, 20162021.

A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Moore, that this Ordinance
Amendment be approved as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chair Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Steele, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Butler, García, Moore and Sims (6)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Murphy and Tobolski (3)

Page 31 of 32

 Respectfully submitted,

___________________________________
Chairman

_________________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://fpdcc.legistar.com

Page 32 of 32

 