BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA
Wednesday, July 19, 2017, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three
(3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda
and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
PRESIDENT
17-4297
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Dr. Janette C. Wilson Howard
Position: At large Commissioner
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/2018 or until a successor is approved and qualified.
Note: Dr. Wilson and Ms. Bernarda Wong will complete the terms of Dr. Ann Kalayil & Dr. Harvette
Gray
17-4353
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Bernarda “Bernie” Lo Wong
Position: At large Commissioner
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/ 2018 or until a successor is approved and qualified.

Page 2 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Note: Dr. Jeanette Wilson and Ms. Wong will complete the terms of Dr. Ann Kalayil & Dr. Harvette

Gray
COMMISSIONERS
17-4298
Presented by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Eileen J. Dordek, LCSW
Position: 10th District Women’s Commission
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/2018 or until a successor is appointed or qualified.
17-4188
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING
THE
ETHICAL
PRACTICES
ORDINANCE
TO
PROHIBIT
CONTRIBUTIONS BY ATTORNEYS, LAW FIRMS AND BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS FOR
HIRE ENGAGING IN PROPERTY TAX APPEALS TO CANDIDATES FOR THE OFFICE OF
COOK COUNTY ASSESSOR.
WHEREAS, Joseph “Joe” Berrios assumed the office of Cook County Assessor in December of 2010;
and
WHEREAS, the number of successful residential appeals granted by the Cook County Assessor has
increased from twenty seven (27%) percent of successful appeals in 2009 to sixty one (61%) percent in
2015; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Assessor, since taking office has raised substantial amounts of political
funds from tax attorneys and related businesses; and
WHEREAS, in June of 2017, the Chicago Tribune published findings of its yearlong investigation into
the fairness and accuracy of property assessments conducted by the Cook County Assessor’s Office; and

Page 3 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

WHEREAS, the Tribune analysis found that Cook County’s assessment process has disproportionately
impacted residents in working-class neighborhoods; and
WHEREAS, residents in working-class areas tend to pay more in taxes, proportionally, than residents in
more affluent communities; and
WHEREAS, the Tribune partnered with the University of Chicago’s Harris School of Public Policy to
study appeals filed by homeowners; and
WHEREAS, to reduce regressivity, an alternative assessment model was developed by experts for the
Cook County Assessor’s Office and funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation; and
WHEREAS, in July of 2015, the Cook County Assessor’s Office publicly announced its adoption of the
new assessment model, which it stated would improve accuracy by fifty percent; and
WHEREAS, the Tribune analysis found that the new model was not implemented, and no proper
explanation has been provided by the Cook County Assessor’s Office; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Assessor’s Office has made public statements indicating that it does not
independently check its assessment values and instead relies on “hand checks,” a process that manually
adjusts values on a case-by-case basis; and
WHEREAS, the Tribune partnered with the University of Chicago’s Harris School of Public Policy to
study appeals filed by homeowners; and
WHEREAS, the Tribune and University of Chicago found that the appeals process in Cook County
makes the property tax system more unfair as owners of higher-priced homes are more likely to file
appeals; and
WHEREAS, the Tribune and University of Chicago found that the Cook County Assessor’s Office’s
practices are inconsistent with international assessment standards for the years including and in between
2010 and 2015.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Assessor’s practices raise potential
ethical concerns, and create an appearance of mismanagement and or have created an environment
susceptible to mismanagement requiring immediate action.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, that Ethics, Article VII, Division 4, Sections 2-671 to 2-685
of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby enacted as follows:
DIVISION 4. TAX APPEALS FOR HIRE
Section 2-671. Short Title

This chapter shall be known as the “Ethical Practices Ordinance”.

Page 4 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Section 2-672. Definitions

Contribution has the same meaning as that term is defined in Section 9-1.4 of the Election Code, 10
ILCS 5/9-1.4.
Real estate taxation attorney means any person for hire that represents any individual or corporation,
partnership, limited liability company that is protesting a tax determination or assessment before the
Assessor’s Office, the Board of Review, the Circuit Court or any other competent venue with
jurisdiction.
Real Estate taxation business organizations means any person or groups of persons that provide
services for hire to represent any individual or corporation, partnership, limited liability company that is
protesting a tax determination or assessment before the Assessor’s Office, the Board of Review, the
Circuit Court or any other competent venue with jurisdiction.
Real estate taxation law firm means any entity for hire engaging in the legal practice of appealing
property taxes, or representing any individual or corporation, partnership, limited liability company in a
tax determination or assessment before the Assessor’s Office, the Board of Review, the Circuit Court or
any other competent venue with jurisdiction.
Section 2-673. Real estate taxation attorneys; contributions

It is unlawful for any law firm or individual attorneys or any political action committee created
by any real estate taxation law firm or individual real estate taxation attorneys or any political action
committee in which a real estate taxation attorney is an officer to make a campaign contribution to any
political committee established to promote the candidacy of a candidate for Cook County Assessor. It is
unlawful for any candidate, political committee, or other person to knowingly accept or receive any
contribution prohibited by this Section. It is unlawful for any officer or agent of a real estate taxation law
firm or individual real estate taxation attorneys to consent to any contribution or expenditure by the tax
appeal law firm or individual attorneys that is prohibited by this Section.
Section 2-674. Real Estate taxation business organizations; contributions

It is unlawful for any real estate taxation business organization or any political action committee
created by real estate taxation business organization or any political action committee in which an officer
of the business organization is an officer to make a campaign contribution to any political committee
established to promote the candidacy of a candidate for Cook County Assessor. It is unlawful for any
candidate, political committee, or other person to knowingly accept or receive any contribution
prohibited by this Section. It is unlawful for any officer or agent of a real estate taxation business
organization to consent to any contribution or expenditure by the real estate taxation organization by any
other officer or agent that is prohibited by this Section.
Sections 2-675 to 2-679. Reserved

Page 5 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Section 2-680. Registration and Reporting

(a) The following persons shall register with the Cook County Clerk as provided in this
ordinance:
(1) Any person who provides real estate taxation services for hire.
(2) Any attorney that provides real estate taxation services for hire.
(3) Any person who employs or contracts with another person for the purpose of
providing real estate taxation services for hire.
(b) Candidates for Cook County Assessor must report receipt of contributions under this ordinance to
the Cook County Human Rights and Ethics Commission and must return funds to entities under this
ordinance within five business days.
Section 2-681. Penalties

Any candidate or their political action committee that willfully violates sections 2-673 and 2-674 of
this article shall be fined 150% of the total amount of contributions that were unlawfully accepted as
contributions made payable to the Fair Elections Fund of Cook County; managed by the Clerk’s office.
Section 2-682. Complaints.

(a) Complaints may be filed with the Department of Human Rights and Ethics, which will
establish rules on managing such complaints that will include but not limited to conferring with the
Clerk’s office, conducting investigations, making determinations and holding hearings on the matter.
(b) This ordinance does not provide a private cause of action.
Section 2-683. Severability.

This Ordinance and every provision thereof shall be considered severable and the invalidity of
any section, clause, paragraph, sentence or provision of this Ordinance will not affect the validity of any
other portion of this Ordinance.
Sections 2-684 to 2-685. Reserved.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect Effective September 1, 2017

Page 6 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-4245
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
THE COOK COUNTY SOCIAL ENTERPRISE ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, nonprofit organizations serving the residents of Cook County and its environs are
becoming increasingly entrepreneurial, supplementing charitable donations and foundation and
government grants with revenue earned by the businesses they own and run, instrumentalities of mission
in their own right; and
WHEREAS, for-profit social-purpose businesses serving the residents of Cook County and its environs
are defining success in terms of both financial and social returns.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
34 Finance, Article IV Procurement Code, Division 11 Social Enterprises, sections 34-320 through
34-325 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-320. Short title

This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Social Enterprise Ordinance.”
Sec. 34-321. Preface and findings

(a) The County finds that social enterprises directly address social needs by providing goods or
services to disadvantaged people or by employing disabled or disadvantaged people.
(b) The County finds that social enterprises use earned revenue strategies to generate income and
thus become more self-sustaining.
(c) The County finds that Illinois benefit corporations are social enterprises by virtue of the fact that
they are for-profit entities which are legally required to have a purpose of creating a general public
benefit and may also have the purpose of creating specific public benefits.
(d) The County finds that Illinois low-profit limited liability companies are social enterprises by
virtue of the fact that they are for-profit entities which must at all times significantly further the
accomplishment of one or more charitable or educational purposes as defined by the Internal Revenue
Code.
Sec. 34-322. Policy and purpose

The policy and purpose of this division are as follows:

Page 7 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

(a) It is the public policy of this County to promote the growth and development of social
enterprises as a means of directly addressing the social needs of the residents of the County.
(b) By providing a preference in procurement to social enterprises, the County can encourage the
growth and development of social enterprises.
Sec. 34-323. Definitions

The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Division, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this Section. Terms not defined in this Section are defined in Division 1 of this Procurement
Code, or in Section 1-3 of the County Code.

County Marketplace means the six-county region, currently the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane,
Lake, McHenry, and Will.
Disadvantaged refers to individuals who are mentally, physically, economically, or educationally
disadvantaged, including, but not limited to, individuals who are living below the poverty line,
developmentally disabled, mentally ill, substance abusers, recovering substance abusers, elderly and in
need of hospice care, gang members, on welfare, or people with arrest or conviction records.
Social Enterprise means a Person which has its principal place of business and a majority of its
regular, full-time work force located within the County Marketplace and which is:
(a) an Illinois benefit corporation subject to the Benefit Corporation Act (805 ILCS 40/1 et seq.);
(b) an Illinois low-profit limited liability company subject to Section 1-26 of the Limited Liability
Company Act (805 ILCS 180/1-26); or
(c) a nonprofit or private-sector entity (or any business unit thereof which maintains separate books
and records) which (1) uses earned revenue strategies, either exclusively as a business or as a significant
part of a nonprofit’s revenue stream, and (2) directly addresses social needs either (i) through its goods
and/or services or (ii) by employing people who are disabled or disadvantaged, or (iii) both.
Sec. 34-324. Social enterprise preference; all contracts

The Chief Procurement Officer shall recommend award of the Procurement to the lowest
Responsible and Responsive Bidder which is a Social Enterprise, so long as the Bid of such Bidder does
not exceed the Bid of the lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder by more than five percent.
Sec. 34-325. Sanctions and penalties

(a) If a Person receives a preference under Section 34-324 as a Social Enterprise and is awarded a
Procurement therefor, but the Contract Compliance Director determines that the Person does not qualify
or no longer qualifies as a Social Enterprise, the CCD shall notify the Person in writing of the Person’s
failure to qualify as a Social Enterprise.

Page 8 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

(b) The CCD’s notice to the Person shall allow the Person a period of at least ninety (90) days in
which to achieve substantial compliance with qualification or requalification as a Social Enterprise.
(c) If the Person has substantially complied with qualification or requalification as a Social
Enterprise within such period, no penalty shall be imposed upon the Person.
(d) If the CCD finds that the Person has failed to substantially comply with qualification or
requalification as a Social Enterprise within such period, the Person shall be liable to the County for a
penalty of up to $2,500.00, and may be subject to termination of any Contract and disqualification from
participation in a County Contract for a period of up to five years from the date of such finding, in
addition to any other remedy provided for in the Procurement Code or at law or in equity. Such sanctions
shall apply jointly and individually to the Person and to the relevant owner or owners of the Person.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
17-4200
Sponsored by: STANLEY MOORE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION ADOPTING ROADWAY DESIGN PUBLICATIONS APPROVED BY THE
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION FOR UTILIZATION IN DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION HOT MIX APSHALT PAVING PROJECTS
WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 99-0727 (the “Act”) was signed by Governor Rauner on August 5, 2016
and becomes effective January 1, 2017; and
WHEREAS, the Act, which contains provisions similar to the federal Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation (“FAST”) Act, Pub. L. 114-94, authorizes units of local government to consult roadway
design publications outside of the Illinois Department of Transportation’s Bureau of Local Roads
Manual for the construction of highways so long as the publication has been approved by the Federal
Highway Administration (FHWA), the local government adopts the design publication and the design
otherwise complies with applicable federal laws; and
WHEREAS, there are roadway design publications approved by the FHWA that, if utilized by the Cook
County Department of Transportation and Highways (the “Department”), would allow for greater design
flexibility including the opportunity to produce lower cost hot mix asphalt pavements while ensuring the
safety and performance of pavements designed under such alternative publications; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board is committed to the pursuit of available means and methods which
can provide cost savings to taxpayers, more efficient productivity within a finite budget and improved
overall quality of a final product.
NOW BE IT RESOLVED, that we, the members of the Cook County Board, do hereby bestow upon the

Page 9 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Superintendent of the Department the authority to consult, adopt and utilize, as the Superintendent within
his or her discretion finds reasonably appropriate, the methods, findings and recommendations contained
within publications approved by the FHWA in designing and implementing the Department’s hot mix
asphalt road program.
17-4339
Sponsored by: DEBORAH SIMS, EDWARD M. MOODY and STANLEY MOORE, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 16-3191
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has enacted and amended an Ordinance entitled
Cook County Real Property Assessment Classification (the “Classification Ordinance”) for the purpose
of encouraging and assisting redevelopment and new development in areas of Cook County that are in a
state of economic depression; and
WHEREAS, municipalities are eligible for Class 8 incentives without any application for certification of
the area when located within the boundaries of the five townships of Bremen, Bloom Rich, Calumet, and
Thornton targeted by the South Suburban Tax Reactivation Pilot Program; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Classification Ordinance, real estate used primarily for industrial or
commercial purposes that is newly constructed, substantially rehabilitated or found “abandoned” and
located in one of the townships targeted under the South Suburban Tax Reactivation Program may
qualify for a Class 8 Property Tax Incentive; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities that are located within the boundaries of the five eligible townships of
Bremen, Bloom, Rich, Calumet, and Thornton (“the municipalities”) are united in their support of the
County’s efforts to effectively promote economic and community development within the municipalities
and to increasing employment opportunities for its citizens; and
WHEREAS, the Classification Ordinance was amended (“the amendment to the Classification
Ordinance 16-3191”) on June 8, 2016 to state that, “An affidavit of the applicant attesting that all
construction, demolition, maintenance or repair services at the subject property shall only be performed
by a contractor or subcontractor who participates in an active apprenticeship and training program
approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s (DOL) Office of Apprenticeship,
shall also be submitted with the application”; and
WHEREAS, the amendment to the Classification Ordinance goes on to state that “The Assessor shall
provide by rule for the filing of such affidavit and the filing of any subsequent supporting documents
which establishes credible evidence that any construction, maintenance or repair service performed at the
subject property will be done by a contractor or subcontractor who participates in an active
apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United States Department of
Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship”; and

Page 10 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

WHEREAS, the amendment to the Classification Ordinance also states that , “The failure to file such
affidavit and supporting documents within the time established by the Assessor’s rules shall result in the
loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing”; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are united in their conviction that such an amendment, although well
intentioned, will have severe and devastating consequences to the communities it is designed to help, and
will greatly hinder their ability to attract new business in their communities; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are all facing competitive pressures from neighboring states and counties
that reflect significantly lower property taxes and a lower cost of doing business overall; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are united in their concern
near or border neighboring states or counties that have
lower cost of doing business overall, the amendment
deterrent to site selection based on added complexity
selector or investor; and

that because they are located in areas that are
significantly lower property taxes and a much
to the Classification Ordinance represents a
realized by the applicant, i.e. developer, site

WHEREAS, the amendment which requires that construction, maintenance or repair service performed
at the subject property be done by a contractor or subcontractor who participates in an active
apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United States Department of
Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship may have an inhibiting effect and deter future expenditures,
expansions, and investment/reinvestment decisions; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are united in their conviction that the amendment to the Classification
Ordinance will represent a burden on small contractors, as many of the projects applying for the
incentive attract the services of smaller local contractors that, due to their having seasoned and
experienced employees, or having small numbers of employees, or who may be
challenged with
elevating their business opportunities due to lack of resources, may not gain value from an
apprenticeship program and be deemed ineligible to participate in any Class 8 construction project; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are united in their conclusion that the amendment to the classification
ordinance will increase the cost of doing business, which is of detriment when located near neighboring
counties and states that reflect a much lower cost of doing business; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are united in their conviction that a job readiness program for residents
within the five township subregion is beneficial and worthy, but should not be tied to a Class 8 incentive
program and should not be limited to DOL apprenticeship programs; and
WHEREAS, some of the municipalities have already lost major projects due to the amendment to the
classification ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the municipalities are united in their conclusion that the retroactive requirement of the
amendment to the Classification Ordinance places a severe and devastating burden on businesses and
contractors alike; and

Page 11 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

WHEREAS, the County of Cook has made a significant investment in the South Suburbs over the past
six years, an investment that continues with the comprehensive South Suburban Initiative; and
WHEREAS, the recent amendment to the Classification Ordinance has resulted, and will continue to
result in unintended yet devastating consequences to municipalities within the boundaries of the five
South Suburban townships of Bremen, Bloom Rich, Calumet, and Thornton.
WHEREAS, that effective immediately the amendment to the Classification Ordinance is repealed.
WHEREAS, that effective immediately, any applicant that has received a Class 8 incentive during the
period that the amendment to the Classification Ordinance was effective shall be exempt from the
retroactive requirement of the amendment to the Classification Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
74 Taxation, to amend section 74-63 as follows, by repealing subsections 74-63(12)d, 74-63(12)f4, and
74-63(12)m and section 74-70 as follows, by repealing subsections 74-70(a)(1)e and 74-70(b)(1)e:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.

Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
***
(12)

Class 8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all
newly constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are
situated; or abandoned property, as defined in this division, including the land upon which such
property is situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to
the extent such rehabilitation has added to their value, including qualified land related to the
rehabilitation.
a. Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as
the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook
County Tax Reactivation Project or must be located in one of the following designated
geographical areas:
1.

An area which has been certified as in
accordance with the provisions of Section 74-65(b);

2.

An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on June
22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the municipality in
which such real estate is located, or, if in an unincorporated area, the County must by
lawful Resolution determine that such real estate is consistent with an overall plan for
the rehabilitation of the area; or

Page 12 of 66

need

of

substantial

revitalization

in

 Board of Commissioners

3.

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Any one of the following five townships: Bloom, Bremen, Calumet, Rich and
Thornton.

b. In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still
determine that special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purpose of Class 8, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not
been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have
been vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances,
shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution where applicable shall:
1.

Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;

2.

State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3.

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was
received and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board
is required to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special
circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution
to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8
need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must
be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request
the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 8
application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or
the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding
special circumstances has been requested.

Page 13 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

If the real estate is located within an Industrial Growth Zone, prior to filing a Class 8
eligibility application with the Assessor and in lieu of an Ordinance or Resolution, an
applicant may obtain from an authorized officer of the municipality or an authorized
officer of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development if the real estate is located
in an unincorporated area, a letter stating that the municipality or the County Board, as the
case may be, supports and consents to the filing of the Class 8 application with the
Assessor. Such authorized officer shall have been designated by the legislative body of the
municipality or, in the case of an unincorporated area, by the Cook County Board.
A copy of the authorized officer letter and a certified copy of the legislative action
designating the authorized officer shall be included with the Class 8 application and
submitted to the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for verification prior to
filing of the application with the Assessor. The applicant must demonstrate that the
industrial development project qualifies for the Class 8 classification.
In addition, the letter from the authorized officer shall:
1.

Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;

2.

State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3.

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was
received and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

Following verification that the Class 8 application is in an Industrial Growth Zone and has
been properly submitted with a letter from an authorized officer and a certified copy of the
legislative action designating the authorized officer, the Bureau of Economic Development
will forward the application to the Assessor's Office for filing.
Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of
Class 8 under the TEERM Program, if:
1.
2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings; and
The buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12
continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances,
shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application under the TEERM Program.
In addition, the Ordinance or Resolution shall:

Page 14 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

1.

Describe the redevelopment objective of the municipality;

2.

State the applicant's intended use of the property; and

3.

July 19, 2017

State that an Economic Disclosure Statement, as defined in this Division, was
received and filed by the municipality or County Board, as the case may be.

If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board
is required to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must
obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special
circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution
to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special
circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8
need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must
be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request
the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 8
application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or
the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding
special circumstances has been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Office on or
before November 30, 2018, to receive consideration.
c. A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from
the affected districts.
d. An affidavit of the applicant attesting that all construction, demolition, maintenance or repair
services at the subject property shall only be performed by a contractor or subcontractor
who participates in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered
with the United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, shall also be
submitted with the application. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of such
affidavit and the filing of any subsequent supporting documents which establishes credible
evidence that any construction, maintenance or repair service performed at the subject
property will be done by a contractor or subcontractor who participates in an active
apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United States
Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship. The failure to file such affidavit and
supporting documents within the time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in the
loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.

Page 15 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

ed.

This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the
construction (excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was
initially assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date
re-occupancy, or in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM
the date of the notice of approval.

date of new
completed and
of substantial
Program, from

fe.

Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent assessment level pursuant to
Section 74-64(11), if the following requirements are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal
of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that
the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the
industrial or commercial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local
economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the Class 8; and

3.

A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the
Assessor's Office before the expiration of the ten-percent assessment level period.

4.

Applicant shall submit an affidavit to the Assessor's Office attesting that, at all times
after the applicant receives and maintains a Class 8 designation, if any construction,
demolition, maintenance or repair service is performed at the subject property, then
any contractors and any subcontractors who perform such service must participate in
an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or
subcontractor employs people in a covered occupation.

gf.

Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program are not renewable.
For all other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the
property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.

hg.

A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's
Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County
Board from the affected districts.

ih.

If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years,
pursuant to Section 74-64(11). After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate
shall revert to the applicable classification under this Division.

ji. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper

Page 16 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the benefits provided under Class
8.
kj.

The certification of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire five years
from the date such certification is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant of the
date of expiration of certification one year before the date of the expiration of the
certification. Such certification, pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one
additional five-year period subject to reapplication by the appropriate local governing
body within the period from one year to six months prior to the expiration of the initial
five-year period.

lk.

The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all
Class 8 recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the
Class 8 site. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from the
affected districts. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the Assessor's
rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.

m.

Taxpayers who currently receive a Class 8 incentive shall file with the Assessor's Office
an affidavit as required under subsection (d) of this Section within 90 days of the
enactment that will be applicable for all future construction, demolition, maintenance or
repair services performed at the subject property as required under subsection (d) of this
Section. Failure to provide the affidavit in a timely manner may result in the loss of the
incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.
***

Sec. 74-70. - Class 8a and 8b designation/assessment class.

(a) Class 8a. Real estate that is used primarily for industrial or commercial purposes, which real estate
would qualify for a Class 8 designation pursuant to Sections 74-62 through 74-64, except for the
fact that the qualifying use of the property prior to application for the incentive does not comply
with the definition of abandoned property provided for in Section 74-62(b), can receive a
designation as a Class 8a property so long as the applicant can show that it has complied with all of
the requirements necessary to receive a Class 8 designation per Sections 74-62 through 74-64,
except for meeting the definition of abandonment provided for in Section 74-62(b), but only when
the Cook County Board of Commissioners provides a Resolution or Ordinance in support of such
designation absent abandonment.
(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a Resolution or Ordinance in
support of Class 8a designation absent abandonment when:
a. An applicant who collects or transmits sales tax has obtained from the municipality in which
the real estate is located or the Cook County Board of Commissioners, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, an agreement to abate a portion of the local

Page 17 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

government's sales tax generated by the industrial or commercial enterprise located on
such real estate and such abatement of sales tax must cover the period of time for which
the applicant would qualify for this Class 8a incentive; and
b. Applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that due to national and regional economic conditions beyond its control the industrial or
commercial enterprise has undergone a significant reduction in net operating income of at
least 40 percent in the year it makes application for this incentive as compared to the
average net operating income of the industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three
years; and
c. Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an
economic impact study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise is not economically
viable and as such it will cease operations within 60 days of the submission of an
eligibility application for Class 8a designation to the Cook County Assessor, and
thereafter the property will become vacant and unused for an extended period of time of at
least 24 months; and
d. Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an
economic impact study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that designation as a Class 8a property will allow the industrial or
commercial enterprise to be economically viable and thereby continue its operations so
that the industrial or commercial enterprise can continue to occupy and fully utilize the
real estate for an extended period of time.
e. Applicant must provide credible evidence that, at all times after the applicant receives and
maintains a Class 8 designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair
service is performed at the subject property, then any contractors and any subcontractors
who perform such service must participate in an active apprenticeship and training
program approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office of
Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor employs people in a covered occupation.
***

(b) Class 8b. Real estate and improvements that house inpatient and outpatient hospital based services,
where the property has been acquired for hospital use by a for-profit acquirer unrelated to the
not-for-profit disposer, thereby avoiding Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board
discontinuation approval, shall be considered for a Class 8b designation if it meets the requirements
of this Section and the Cook County Board of Commissioners provides a Resolution or Ordinance in
support of such designation.
(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a Resolution or Ordinance in
support of Class 8b designation when:

Page 18 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

a. The applicant is a hospital, as defined in the Hospital Licensing Act, or an entity that owns
the real property on which a hospital is located, the hospital is licensed by the state, and
the abandonment of the hospital would require the applicant, or the hospital on behalf of
which the applicant owns the real property on which the hospital is located, to obtain a
permit or exemption from the State of Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board
pursuant to the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Act prior to discontinuing hospital
operations and to obtain a second permit or exemption prior to reopening or otherwise
reestablishing the hospital after abandonment;
b. The applicant demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of
the Class 8b designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be
retained for hospital use with the associated employment benefits relative to industrial or
commercial use of the property;
c. The subject hospital is located in a zip code which has a ten-percent or greater incidence of
families and/or individuals below the poverty level, as identified by the U.S. Census
Bureau's most recent census; and
d. The subject hospital employs at least 750 full-time equivalents (full-time equivalent jobs
being defined as total hours worked by all non-full-time employees divided by average
annual hours worked by the full-time employees).
e. Applicant must provide credible evidence that, at all times after the applicant receives and
maintains a Class 8 designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair
service is performed at the subject property, then any contractors and any
subcontractors who perform such service must participate in an active apprenticeship
and training program approved and registered with the United States Department of
Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor employs people in
a covered occupation.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 19 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER
17-3938
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the County Comptroller
Vendor: PNC Bank, National Association, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Electronic payment card services
Original Contract Period: 8/1/2014 - 7/31/2017, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 8/1/2017 - 7/31/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $0.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 7/23/2014, $0.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: $0.00 (Revenue Generating)
Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): 1488-13855
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBE/WBE
waiver.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This first of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the County Comptroller to
continue to receive PNC Bank’s Active Pay Program (“APP”). The APP allows the County to pay
vendors electronically, via virtual credit card, eliminating the costs of printing, mailing, and reconciling

Page 20 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

checks.
The APP is cost effective, flexible, and user friendly with strong security, antifraud and
reconciliation features that includes:
1) an incentive rebate program; 2) an ongoing marketing and
enablement process to expand the use of the virtual card as a form of payment across Cook County’s
vendors and 3) 24/7 customer service which includes technical and functional user training and vendor
training. The estimated revenue to Cook County is $300,000 for FY 2018.
This was previously awarded as a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of
the Cook County Procurement Code. PNC Bank was previously awarded a contract by the Chicago
Board of Education through a Request for Proposals (RFP) process. Cook County wishes to continue to
leverage this procurement effort.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING
17-3880
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Director, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Enterprise Resource Planning
Vendor: International Business Machines (IBM Corporation), Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s):

Software and System Integration and Managed Services for Oracle E-Business

Suite ERP Software
Original Contract Period: 9/15/2015-9/14/2020
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $73,356,420.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/9/2015, $66,546,900.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/28/2017, $6,809,520.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $1,999,782.00

Page 21 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY2017 $1,333,198.00; FY 2018 $666,584.00
Accounts: 11569.1029.17825.560225; Project ID 21230
Contract Number(s): 1418-14268
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and
participation and partial MBE/WBE waiver.

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Bureau of Technology concurs
Summary: This increase will allow additional Parallel Payroll testing, HCM system integration testing,
HCM schedule change, Cloud Performance Management integration, Inventory requirements, and GHX
inventory management integration

This contract was awarded through a Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. IBM was awarded based on established evaluation criteria.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE
17-3892
Presented by: ZAHRA ALI, Deputy Liquor Commissioner
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Department of Revenue
Action: Approval
Payee: Tyco Integrated Security LLC, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Good(s) or Service(s): Security Services
Fiscal Impact: $6,318.02
Accounts: 007-449
Contract Number(s): 1653-15733
Summary: The burglar and fire alarm service provide security coverage in location where money is
collected and secured until it is transported to the bank, and the area that maintain cigarette tax stamps

Page 22 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

court files. The Office of the Chief Procurement Office worked with various users agencies to
consolidate efforts to award a new County-wide contract. Due to the Direct Pay limit the request for
payment for the services reddened would exceed the $5,000 direct pay amount.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
17-3811
Presented by: DEANNA ZALAS, Director, Department of Risk Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Risk Management
Vendor: Davis Vision, Inc., San Antonio, Texas
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Employer-Sponsored Vision Care Benefits
Contract Value: $9,000,000.00
Contract period: 12/1/2017 - 11/30/2020, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options.
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2018 $3,000,000, FY 2019 $3,000,000, FY 2020 $3,000,000
Accounts: 542-179
Contract Number(s): 1730-16416
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-and

Women

Owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Risk Management is requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to award a contract to Davis Vision, Inc. to provide employer sponsored vision insurance benefits
for Cook County employees and their dependents.
Cook County currently offers vision coverage for all
eligible employees and dependents.
The plan design is negotiated through the collective bargaining
process. Employees do not contribute to the cost of the plans. The expense is covered through annual
appropriations.

The Director of Risk Management is authorized to review and approve the Certification and Evidence of
Coverage to support the selected vision plan.

Page 23 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

This contract was awarded through a Request for Proposal (RFP) process in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Davis Vision, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
17-4263
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT
TO
THE
SERVICES ORDINANCE

COOK

COUNTY

ADOPTION

AND

FAMILY

SUPPORTIVE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VIII Adoption and Family Supportive Services, Section 38-173 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-173 . Fees.

The Department shall charge fees for the following services with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of
this Code.
(1) Adoption Intake Interview - Initial meeting with prospective adoptive family providing an
overview of the adoption process, review of qualifications for adoption and implementation of
the process for criminal and DCFS background check.
(2) Birth Parent Interview and Consent interviewing and collecting information from the birth
parent and overview of the signature of documents that allow the birth parent(s) to relinquish
rights and responsibilities of the child to a specific person.
(3) Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee) - Retrieval and review of adoption file and generating
a report of non-identifying information.
(4) Adoption Fingerprint Processing (paid by adoptive parent(s) - Assists attorneys and parents with
retrieval and processing of state and federal criminal background checks.
(5) Foreign Jurisdiction Social Study Investigation Request (paid by individual residing outside of
the court’s jurisdiction) - Court of foreign jurisdiction (outside of Cook County) informally
requests that OFSS conduct a child custody social study investigation of a cook county resident
that includes interviews of all house hold household residents, Cook County criminal
background checks and DCFS background checks and retrieval of school progress reports.
(6) Adoption Social Study Investigation Fee (per child) (Based on annual income of, and paid by,
adoptive parent(s) - Annual income shall be verified by either a current federal or state tax
return or current wages and tax statements, e.g., W-2 and/ or 1099 forms) -Includes interview of

Page 24 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

all house hold household residents and child care providers of the adoptee; retrieval of financial
information, character and employment references, medical information, school progress reports
and other mandatory information integrated into a written report concerning adoption
proceedings.
All fees shall be collected by the Department and remitted to the Cook County Department of Revenue.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.
CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

38-173 (1)
38-173 (2)

Adoption Intake Interview
Birth Parent Interview and Consent

38-173 (3)
38-173 (4)

Adoption - Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee)
Adoption - Fingerprint Administrative Fee (paid by
adoptive parent(s)
Foreign Jurisdictional Social Study Investigation Request
(paid by individual residing outside of the jurisdiction)
Adoption Social Study Investigation Fee (per child) (paid
by adoptive parent):

38-173 (5)
38-173 (6)

150.00
100.00 per
hour
100.00
15.00
500.00

If Annual Income is:
Under 10,000.00
10,001 - 14,999
15,000 - 19,999
20,000 - 24,999
25,000 - 29,999
30,000 - 34,999
35,000 - 39,999
40,000 - 49,000
50,000 - 59,999
60,000 - 69,000
70,000 - 79,000
80,000 - 89,000
90,000 - 99,000
100,000 - 149,999
150,000 - 200,000
200,000 and above

50.00
75 100.00
125 150.00
225 250.00
325 312.50
475 450.00
675 525.00
775 800.00
1,025 1,125.00
1,225 1,350.00
1,325 1,575.00
1,525 1,800.00
1,675 2,025.00
2,025 2,250.00
2,250 3,375.00
3,025 4,500.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 25 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER
17-4170
Presented by: PONNI ARUNKUMAR, M.D. Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Cook County Medical Examiner
Request: To approve a transfer of funds request.
Reason:
This is for a needed upgrade to the Radiology Department.
Currently, that department is
operating under Windows XP which is no longer supported. Switching operating systems would be more
costly than this upgrade in order to be compatible with new full body low-dose x-ray equipment. This
transfer is needed to cover this project.
From Account(s): 259-360, $10,000.00; 259-320, $5,000.00; 259-355, $5,000.00; 259-449, $5,000.00.
To Account(s): 259-367, $25,000.00;
Total Amount of Transfer: $25,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?

On 6/15/2017 it became apparent that the Medical Examiner’s capital project did not fall under the
guidelines of capital projects and these funds needed to come out of operating funds. The balance in that
account was $16,849.00 and it was the same 30 days prior to that date.
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified?
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.

List any other accounts

The accounts used as the sources of the transferred funds were identified by the budget appropriations.
The Medical Examiner’s Office examined the budget and re-prioritized funds that could be used to fund
this needed radiology project.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.

The Medical Examiner’s Office does not believe there will be any other purchases, projects, programs or
contracts that will be significantly delayed or canceled as a result of this transfer.

Page 26 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.

Depending on the operations of the Medical Examiner’s office, budget appropriations vary from year to
year. Those projections are based on data examined from the previous fiscal year in which the next
year’s projections are made. Because of the nature of our business, it is difficult to accurately project the
number of cases from year to year, so the Medical Examiner builds in a small reserve into the budget so
we can continue to operate in an efficient and cost effective manner.
17-4269
Presented by: PONNI ARUNKUMAR, M.D. Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Vendor: Select Ventures/DBA Kimbark Laundry, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Scrubs and fluid-resistant lab coats.
Original Contract Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2016 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/1/2018 - 12/31/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $63,106.66
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 1/12/2015, $13,106.66
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 8/7/2015, $50,000.00, 12/15/2016,
1/1/2017 - 12/31/2017
This Increase Requested: $10,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2018 $10,000.00
Accounts: 259-320
Contract Number(s): 1435-14125
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct MBE

Page 27 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

participation and full WBE waiver.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2) one-year renewal options that will allow the Medical
Examiner to continue to receive scrubs and fluid-resistant lab coats.

This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Select Ventures (d/b/a Kimbark Laundry) was the lowest, responsive, and
responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS
17-1696
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Triggi Construction, Inc., West Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Project: Pavement Preservation and Rehabilitation Program
Location:
Joe Orr Road - Cottage Grove Avenue to Stony Island Avenue in the Village of Ford Heights and Village of
Lynwood
Sauk Trail at Richton Square in the Village of Richton Park
Sauk Trail at Lakewood Blvd/Blackhawk Drive in the Village of Park Forest
Kedzie Avenue/Frontage Road - 143rd Street to 141st Street in the Village of Robbins and City of Blue Island
Frontage Road at Crawford Avenue in the City of Markham
Kedzie Avenue at 163rd Street in the City of Markham
Flossmoor Road and Kedzie Avenue in the Village of Flossmoor
County Board District: 5 and 6
Section:
16-B6735-00-PV
16-C1129-00-RP
16-C1129-01-RP
16-W4612-00-FP
16-WFCRA-00-FP
16-W4609-00-FP

Page 28 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

16-B6529-00-RP
Contract Value: $2,755,999.09
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 11/17/2019
Centerline Mileage: 2.11 Miles
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $2,204,799.27, FY 2018 $275,599.91, and FY 2019
$275,599.91
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Funds (Account 600-585)
Contract Number(s): 1685-15879
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women- owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct
participation.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This construction project includes pavement rehabilitation, concrete sidewalk improvements,
existing structures adjustments, curb and gutter replacement, guardrail removal and replacement, detector
loops, maintenance of existing traffic signal installation, survey monuments, earth excavation, grading
and shaping ditches, topsoil, seeding, sodding and fertilizer nutrients, pavement markings and reflective
pavement markers, sidewalk ADA improvements, and all other work as required to complete the
improvements.

This contract was awarded through competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Triggi Construction, Inc., was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.

Page 29 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-3611
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Invest in Cook Improvement Program 2017 include transit, bicycle, pedestrian, freight and roadway projects.

30 Multi-Modal

Transportation

Projects

that

Location: Countywide
Section: Multiple
County Board District(s): 1 -17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $7,221,925.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval
proposed Improvement Resolution for the 2017 Invest in Cook Multi-Modal Transportation Project.

of

the

This improvement program is need to fund 30 various multi-modal transportation projects throughout
Cook County, as an enactment of the priorities set forth in Connecting Cook County, the County’s
Long-Range Transportation Plan. ..end

Page 30 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-3631
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Knight E/A, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Design Engineering Services
Location: City of Chicago, City of Des Plaines, Village of Elk Grove, Unincorporated Elk Grove
Township; Illinois
County Board District(s): 15 and 17
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2014 - 9/30/2019
Section: 14-13018-01-EG
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 10/1/2019 - 9/30/2021
Section: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $4,448,770.11
Original Board Approval: 9/10/2014, $4,448,770.11
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $1,242,281.36
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017: $1,242,281.36
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Contract Number(s): 1455-13465
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A

Page 31 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:
The increase provides for additional Design Engineering Services that includes the Mount
Prospect Road alignment revisions, Union Pacific Railroad bridge redesign, preliminary and final
roadway engineering and project administration, municipal water main and sanitary sewer relocation,
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District Watershed Management Ordinance permit application,
roadway lighting expansion and redesign, agreement preparation, Higgins Creek analysis and report,
utility relocation coordination, and retaining wall study and design. The extension provides for the
consultant to be available during construction.

This Contract was awarded through the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. Knight E/A, Inc. was selected based on the established evaluation
criteria.
17-3638
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Baxter & Woodman, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Engineering Services related to Building and Zoning Permits
Location: Countywide
County Board District(s): 1 -17
Original Contract Period: 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2016, with three (3) one (1) year renewal options
Section: Section number or N/A
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 7/1/2017 - 6/30/2018

Page 32 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Section N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $375,000.00
Original Board Approval: 6/18/2014, $375,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 5/2/2016, 7/1/2016 - 6/30/2017
This Increase Requested: $300,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $100,000.00, FY 2018 $200,000.00
Accounts: 500-260
Contract Number(s): 1323-13116
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of three (3) one (1) year renewal options will allow the department
of Transportation and Highways to continue to receive engineering consulting services. This contract is
for the technical review, tracking, processing and other engineering services related to Building &
Zoning permits at various locations throughout Cook County.

This contract was awarded through the Request for Qualifications procedures in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. Baxter & woodman, Inc. was selected based on the established
evaluation criteria.

Page 33 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-3846
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: AECOM, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Design Engineering Services
Location: Countywide
County Board District: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Section: 14-8DESV-01-EG
Contract Value: $2,500,000.00
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 7/25/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $500,000.00, FY 2018 $700,000.00, FY 2019 $700,000.00,
FY 2020 $600,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Contract Number(s): 1628-15166 A
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 34 of 66

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Summary:
This Contract includes intersection and traffic signal design, small roadway
segments/roadway corridors, structures, and design of drainage/flooding solutions; completion of
on-going plans, specifications and estimates; updating County standard details and specifications;
identification and preparation of grant applications for project funding; and various project permitting.
This Contract also provides assistance in preparing new documents including plans, specifications and
estimates with supporting engineering analysis for various projects throughout Cook County. All services
will be requested on an as-needed basis.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. AECOM was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
17-3849
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Primera Engineers, Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Design Engineering Services
Location: Countywide
County Board District: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Section: 14-8DESV-03-ES
Contract Value: $2,500,000.00
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 7/25/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $500,000.00, FY 2018 $700,000.00, FY 2019 $700,000.00,
FY 2020 $600,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Contract Number(s): 1628-15166 E
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A

Page 35 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This Contract includes intersection and traffic signal design, small roadway
segments/roadway corridors, structures, and design of drainage/flooding solutions; completion of
on-going plans, specifications and estimates; updating County standard details and specifications;
identification and preparation of grant applications for project funding; and various project permitting.
This Contract also provides assistance in preparing new documents including plans, specifications and
estimates with supporting engineering analysis for various projects throughout Cook County. All services
will be requested on an as-needed basis.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Primera Engineers, Ltd. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
17-3851
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: TranSystems Corporation, Schaumburg, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Design Engineering Services
Location: Countywide
County Board District: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Section: 17-8DESV-01EG
Contract Value: $2,500,000.00
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 7/25/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options

Page 36 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Centerline Mileage: N/A
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $500,000.00, FY 2018 $700,000.00, FY 2019 $700,000.00,
FY 2020 $600,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Contract Number(s): 1628-15166 C
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This Contract includes intersection and traffic signal design, small roadway
segments/roadway corridors, structures, and design of drainage/flooding solutions; completion of
on-going plans, specifications and estimates; updating County standard details and specifications;
identification and preparation of grant applications for project funding; and various project permitting.
This Contract also provides assistance in preparing new documents including plans, specifications and
estimates with supporting engineering analysis for various projects throughout Cook County. All services
will be requested on an as-needed basis.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. TranSystems was selected based on established evaluation criteria.

Page 37 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-3852
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Civiltech Engineering, Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Design Engineering Services
Location: Countywide
County Board District: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Section: 17-8DESV-00-EG
Contract Value: $2,500,000.00
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 7/25/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $500,000.00, FY 2018 $700,000.00, FY 2019 $700,000.00,
FY 2020 $600,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Contract Number(s): 628-15166 B
IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 38 of 66

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Summary: This Contract includes intersection and traffic signal design, small roadway
segments/roadway corridors, structures, and design of drainage/flooding solutions; completion of
on-going plans, specifications and estimates; updating County standard details and specifications;
identification and preparation of grant applications for project funding; and various project permitting.
This Contract also provides assistance in preparing new documents including plans, specifications and
estimates with supporting engineering analysis for various projects throughout Cook County. All services
will be requested on an as-needed basis.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Civiltech Engineering, Ltd. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
17-3853
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways

PROPOSED CONTRACT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Infrastructure Engineers, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract.
Good(s) or Service(s): Design Engineering Services
Location: Countywide
County Board District: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Section: 14-8DESV-02-ES
Contract Value: $2,500,000.00
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 7/25/2020, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $500,000.00, FY 2018 $700,000.00, FY 2019 $700,000.00,
FY 2020 $600,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585)
Contract Number(s): 1628-15166 D

Page 39 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

IDOT Contract Number(s): N/A
Federal Project Number(s): N/A
Federal Job Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This Contract includes intersection and traffic signal design, small roadway
segments/roadway corridors, structures, and design of drainage/flooding solutions; completion of
on-going plans, specifications and estimates; updating County standard details and specifications;
identification and preparation of grant applications for project funding; and various project permitting.
This Contract also provides assistance in preparing new documents including plans, specifications and
estimates with supporting engineering analysis for various projects throughout Cook County. All services
will be requested on an as-needed basis.

Request for Qualifications (RFQ) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Infrastructure Engineers, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
17-3860
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of the Proposed Supplement Improvement Resolution
Project: Topographic Surveying Study Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 16-6SURV-00-ES
County Board District: Countywide
Centerline Mileage: N/A

Page 40 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Fiscal Impact: $76,500.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Board Approved Date and Amount: 10/26/2016, $423,500.00
Increased Amount: $76,500.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $500,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution for Topographic Surveying Study Services.
The
services include topographic surveys and other related engineering services at various locations
throughout Cook County.
17-3861
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
SUPPLEMENTAL
HIGHWAYS)

IMPROVEMENT

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of Proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Project: Geotechnical Engineering Services
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County
Section: 16-6SOIL-00-ES
County Board District: Countywide
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $140,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Board Approved Date and Amount: 9/14/2016, $360,000.00
Increased Amount: $140,000.00

Page 41 of 66

(TRANSPORTATION

AND

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Total Adjusted Amount: $500,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution for Geotechnical Engineering Services.
The
engineering services will include soil borings and other related geotechnical engineering services at
various locations throughout Cook County.
17-3962
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
HIGHWAYS)

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

AGREEMENT

(TRANSPORTATION

AND

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies):
Illinois State Toll Highway Authority, Illinois Department of Transportation, County
of DuPage, Village of Elk Grove Village and the Village of Roselle
Request: Approval of Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Design and Construction Services
Location: Village of Elk Grove Village and the Village of Roselle
Section: N/A
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 15
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority, Illinois Department of Transportation, County of DuPage, Village of Elk Grove Village and
the Village of Roselle. This agreement was approved by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.

The Illinois State Toll Highway Authority will provide design and construct services for the Elgin
O’Hare Expressway, extend the expressway from its eastern terminus at Rohlwing Road (Illinois Route

Page 42 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

53) to O’Hare International Airport, and construct a new O’Hare Western Access connecting the Jane
Addams Memorial Tollway (I-90) with the Tri-State Tollway (I-294); referred to as the Elgin O’Hare
Western Access (EOWA).The County of Cook agrees to maintain, or cause to maintain Roselle Road
including all drainage facilities, the north frontage road at the Texas U-turn to Meacham Road, the
Meacham Road underpass lighting under the Illinois Route 390 westbound bridge structure, the
Meacham Road new lighting controller, the traffic signal on Roselle Road and westbound Illinois Route
390 entrance ramp/exit ramp, the traffic signal at the Roselle Road and eastbound Illinois Route 390
entrance ramp/exit ramp intersection and the traffic signal at the Meacham Road and Illinois Route 390
ramp/westbound frontage road intersection upon completion of the construction and final acceptance by
Cook County.
17-3963
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Illinois State Toll Highway Authority, Illinois Department of Transportation, County of
DuPage and the Village of Itasca
Request: Approval of Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Design and Construction Services
Location: Village of Itasca
Section: N/A
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 15
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority, Illinois Department of Transportation, County of DuPage and the Village of Itasca.
This

Page 43 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

agreement was approved by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.
The Illinois State Toll Highway Authority will design and construct the Elgin O’Hare Expressway,
extend the expressway from its eastern terminus at Rohlwing Road (Illinois Route 53) to O’Hare
International Airport, and construct a new O’Hare Western Access connecting the Jane Addams
Memorial Tollway (I-90) with the Tri-State Tollway (I-294); referred to as the Elgin O’Hare Western
Access (EOWA) The County of Cook agrees to maintain, or cause to maintain Meacham Road and also
the north frontage road from a point starting along the east edge of pavement of Meacham Road
extending approximately 172 feet eastwardly to the physical pavement joint or the end of the gore at the
Texas U-turn, including existing drainage facilities upon completion of the construction and final
acceptance by Cook County.
17-4006
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

CONSTRUCTION

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Wight/Industria, Joint Venture, Darien, Illinois
Action: Approval of Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Location of Project: Cook County District 3 Maintenance Facility, LaGrange, Illinois
Section: 12-7BLDG-06-MG
County Board District: 16
Contract Number: 11-28-058
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $111,270.00
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: 0%
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution for construction services completed at the
District 3 Maintenance Facility - Building C.

Page 44 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

The services consisted of removal and disposal of a one-story metal vehicle storage building, which
included interior wood partitions, wood floor platforms, infrared ceiling gas heaters, electrical items,
gutters, downspouts, bollards and all other work associated with the demolition of the building. It also
included installation of a chain link fence, milled and resurfaced adjacent pavement area with hot mix
asphalt, drainage adjustments and improvements, engineering and other related work to complete the
project.
17-4011
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

CONSTRUCTION

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Old Veteran Construction, Incorporated, Chicago, Illinois
Action: Approval of Proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Services
Location of Project: Cook County Maintenance Facilities - Districts 1 - 5
Section: 13-7WMRD-01-MG
County Board District: 1, 14, 16 and 17
Contract Number: 11-28-059
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $402,885.79
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount: 0%
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Completion of Construction Approval Resolution for construction services completed at the
Cook County Maintenance Facilities - Districts 1 through 5.

The services consisted of removal and disposal of waste materials accumulated from highway
maintenance operations at the five (5) Cook County Maintenance Facilities, from ditch re-grading, street
sweeping, pavement patching, drums/barrels containing used motor oil, bituminous materials, material

Page 45 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

testing for appropriate landfill disposal, site cleanup and other related work to complete the project.
17-4027
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of South Barrington, Barrington, Illinois
Request: Approval of the Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement for tree removal services
Location: Village of South Barrington
Section: 17-8TREE-00-GM
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 15
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: $126,500.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Summary:

The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the

proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the Village of South Barrington.
The Village of South Barrington will perform tree removal services throughout the Village. The County
will reimburse the Village of South Barrington for its share of tree removal costs.

The estimated total

County share is $126,500.00.
The proposed Intergovernmental Agreement was approved by the Village of South Barrington on

Page 46 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

7/13/2017.

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Hard copies of the executed agreement will be distributed at the 7/19/2017 County Board

Meeting.
17-4097
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of Proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Project: Phase I Preliminary Engineering Project
Location: Quentin Road from
Unincorporated Palatine Township

Dundee

Road

to

Lake-Cook

Road

in

the

Village

of

Palatine,

Section: 05-V6246-10-ES
County Board District: 14
Centerline Mileage: 1.1 miles
Fiscal Impact: $380,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Board Approved
$1,120,000.00

Date

and

Amount:

7/12/2005,

$575,000;

7/1/2015,

$1,100,000.00;

4/12/2017,

Increased Amount: $380,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $3,175,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution for the Phase I Preliminary Engineering Project for
Quentin Road from Dundee Road to Lake-Cook Road. The major tasks will include focus group
meetings to be held with the project stakeholders, which include the Forest Preserve
Conservation/Advocacy Groups, volunteer organizations and local residents. There will be a maximum
of 16 focus group meetings to cover various environmental topics, a Stakeholder Involvement Plan, and
preparation of a memo at the conclusion of the focus group meetings.

Page 47 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-4176
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Pavement Rehabilitation - Various Locations - Worth Township
Location: Various locations, Worth Township, Illinois
Section: 17-REHAB-02-PV
County Board District(s): 4, 5, 6, 11 and 17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $1,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account 600-585
Summary:
The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
proposed Improvement Resolution for pavement rehabilitation at various locations in Worth Township.

The services include milling and resurfacing of the existing bituminous pavement with hot-mix asphalt,
concrete curb and gutter removal and replacement, drainage repairs and adjustments, sidewalk removal
and replacement, installation of ADA compliant ramps, traffic control and protection, pavement marking
and landscaping.

Page 48 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
VETERAN'S ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
17-4280
Presented by: MARTHA MARTINEZ, Acting Chief, Bureau of Human Resources (inactive)
REPORT
Department: Veterans Assistance Commission of Cook County
Report Title: FY17 Veterans Assistance Commission of Cook County Second Quarter Report
Report Period: 3/1/2017 - 5/31/2017
Summary:

Per Board Resolution, this quarterly report provides daily activity at the Veterans Assistance

Commission from 3/1/2017 - 5/31/2017
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
17-4079
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Accurate Controls, Inc., Ripon, Wisconsin
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Security System Maintenance and Repair Services
Contract Value: $389,349.77
Contract period: 7/26/2017 - 7/25/2020, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget
$129,783.24, FY2020 $86,522.21

Impact:

FY

2017 $43,261.08,

Accounts: 200-450 Maintenance and Repair of Plant Equipment
Contract Number(s): 1613-15330

Page 49 of 66

FY

2018 $129,783.24,

FY2019

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management requests authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Accurate Controls, Inc. to supply security system
maintenance and repair services for various buildings throughout Cook County.

This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
17-4236
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Chicago United Industries, Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Ceiling Tiles
Contract Value: $527,649.30
Contract period: 8/1/2017 - 7/31/2019 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal
$153,897.52

Year

Budget

Impact:

FY

2017 $109,926.90,

FY

2018 $263,824.88,

FY2019

Accounts: 200-333 Institutional Supplies
Contract Number(s): 1645-15585
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBE/WBE
waiver with indirect participation.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management requests authorization for the Chief Procurement
Officer to enter into and execute a contract with Chicago United Industries, Ltd., to supply ceiling tiles
supplies at various Cook County Facilities.

Page 50 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Chicago United Industries was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
17-4255
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Affiliated Steam Equipment, Co., Alsip, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Steam Heat and Chilled Water Cooling Coils
Original Contract Period: 9/28/2015 - 9/27/2017 with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 9/28/2017 - 9/27/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $95,257.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/22/2015, $93,200.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 4/13/2016, $2,057.00
This Increase Requested: $55,800.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $9,300.00, FY 2018 $46,500.00
Accounts: 200-333 Institutional Supplies
Contract Number(s): 1545-14489
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBE/WBE
waiver.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of two (2) one (1) year renewal options will allow the Department of
Facilities Management to continue to receive steam heat and chilled water cooling coils.

Page 51 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Affiliated Steam Equipment Co. was the lowest, responsive, and responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE
17-4277
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Request to approve new lease agreement
Landlord: Exoho Harlem Assoc., LLC, North Riverside, Illinois
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 1800 Harlem Ave., North Riverside, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: Ten (10) years, commencement estimated 8/1/2017.
Space Occupied: 20,676 sq. ft.
Monthly Rent:
Years
PSF (Rounded)
1-5
$15.50
6 - 10
$16.28

Monthly
$26,706.50
$28,050.44

Annual
$320,478.00
$336,605.28

Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal 2017-2027 funds.
Accounts: 893-690/550162 Rental and Leasing
Option to Renew: Two (2) option periods of five (5) years with no less than nine (9) months written
notice to the landlord.
Termination: NA
Utilities Included: Tenant shall pay for all water, sanitary sewer, gas, electricity, and other utilities used
on the Premises to be separately metered.
Summary/Notes:
The Cook County Ambulatory & Community Health Network, (ACHN) will operate
a primary care clinic allowing for expanded services in family medicine, internal medicine, obstetrics,

Page 52 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

pediatrics, behavioral health and dental services replacing the current Cicero Clinic.
This Lease Agreement was submitted and approved by the Health & Hospitals System at their meeting
on 5/26/2017...end
17-4290
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Requesting approval of a (New) Ground Lease
Landlord: The Board of Education of the City of Chicago
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 5411 - 5501 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60639
Term/Extension
Commissioners

Period:

50 Years,

commencing

upon

approval

of

the

Cook

County

Board

of

Space Occupied: 1.47 acres
Monthly Rent: $1.00 per year for so long as Lessee provides medical and health services to the public
which could include Chicago Public School students and employees and their families on the Premises.
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal 2017-2027 funds
Accounts: (893-690/550162 Rental and Leasing )
Option to Renew: Two (2) Five (5)-Year Options to Extend on the same terms and conditions
Termination: NA
Utilities Included: No, Lessee shall be responsible for the payment of all costs, expenses, utilities,
telecommunications, and insurance and any real estate or leasehold taxes relating to the Premises that
may arise or accrue during the Term or any Renewal Term
Summary/Notes: CCHHS intends to demolish the fieldhouse and construct a Medical Clinic on the
Premises which will provide primary and preventive medical and health care and social services to the
public, which may include Chicago Public School students, employees and their families

Page 53 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
17-4347
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Planning and Development
Request: Amend a Previously Approved Item
Item Number: 16-1343
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Account(s): N/A

Original Text of Item: PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AUTHORIZING
THE
INITIATION
AND
ADMINISTRATION
OF
A
DOWNPAYMENT
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR HOME BUYERS
COOK COUNTY MARKET RATE DOWN
PAYMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County (“the Board”) hereby determines it to be
advisable and in the best interests of the County, its residents, and its taxpayers that the County continue
the promotion of economic development, affordable housing, and home ownership within the County;
and
WHEREAS, the Board further determines it to be advisable and in the best interests of the County, its
residents, and its taxpayers that the County initiate and administer a program through which qualified
first-time home buyers of residences in the County might more easily obtain competitive fixed-rate
30-year mortgage loans coupled with assistance for down payments and closing costs, herein referred to
as a Market Rate Down Payment Assistance Program (Market Rate DPA Program); and
WHEREAS, the Board is further desirous that to launch and administer a Market Rate DPA Program,
the Bureau of Economic Development’s Department of Planning and Development and the Bureau of
Finance retain George K. Baum and Associates and other Program Administrators to administer a Market
Rate DPA Program in accord with relevant federal, state, and local law, County policies, and established
best practices, said administration to include assisting said Bureaus in the promulgation of Program
policies and procedures, if any; satisfying requests for assistance, support, and information made by said
Bureaus; packaging and circulating the loans into the secondary market; and taking such other action as
is necessary, advisable, or incidental to the administration of a Market Rate DPA; and

Page 54 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

WHEREAS, the Board is further desirous that to launch and administer a Market Rate DPA, the Bureau
of Economic Development’s Department of Planning and Development and the Bureau of Finance, to
gain better access to capital and lower interest rates for the Program, retain 360 Mortgage Group and
other Mortgage Servicing Companies to identify and contract with mortgage originators; set rates for the
loans and the arbitraging of said loans to ensure that relevant loan rates remain competitive in the market;
and service the Market Rate DPA loans; and
WHEREAS, the Board finds and determines that a Market Rate DPA Program as described herein will
assist eligible, qualified borrowers in obtaining affordable mortgage loans and other assistance to aid in
their purchase of affordable single family residences in the County;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that:
Authorization of Program.
The Bureau of Economic Development’s Department of Planning and
Development and the Bureau of Finance are hereby authorized to jointly initiate a Market Rate DPA
Program by (a) retaining one or more Program Administrators to (1) administer the Program in accord
with relevant federal, state, and local law, County policies (including the Market Rate DPA Program
Guidelines which are attached hereto and hereby approved by the Board), and established best practices;
(2) assist in the Bureaus’ joint promulgation of Program policies and procedures, if any; and (3) satisfy
requests for further assistance, support, and information made by the Bureaus; (b) entering into such
agreements with George K. Baum as the Program Administrators and 360 Mortgage Group as the
Mortgage Servicers in such forms as are attached hereto; (c) entering into such agreements with other
Program Administrators and Mortgage Servicers work with the Office of the Comptroller and/or
Department of Budget and Management Services to establish an account or fund to deposit fees collected
as a result of said Program; and (d) updating and revising from time to time, as necessary, advisable, or
prudent, the Program Guidelines to ensure the Market Rate DBPA Program’s compliance with applicable
law, policy, and best practice, and to ensure that competitive mortgage loans continue to be made
available to eligible borrowers
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, the
Development shall report quarterly to
performance of the Market Rate DPA
loans originated, communities served,
Servicers retained.

Bureau of Economic Development’s Department of Planning and
the Cook County Board of Commissioners regarding the overall
Program to include but not limited to, outreach efforts, number of
fees received and additional Program Administrators or Mortgage

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that the Bureau of Economic Development’s Department of Planning
and Development be authorized to terminate said Market Rate DPA Program should the Department of
Planning and Development determine that the Market Rate DPA Program is no longer in the best
interests of the County.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.

Page 55 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
17-4258
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Human Resources
Report Title: HR Bi - Weekly Activity Report
Report Period: Pay Period 12: 5/28/2017 - 6/10/2017
Summary: The HR Bi - Weekly Activity Report for Pay Period 12 covers the two (2) week pay period
beginning 5/28/2017 and ending 6/10/2017.
BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
17-4243
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: Revenue Solutions, Inc., Pembroke, Massachusetts
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Integrated Home Rule Tax Processing System
Original Contract Period: 10/1/2015 - 9/30/2020 with five (5) one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Extension Period: N/A
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $11,663,946.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 9/9/2015, $10,971,946.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 8/03/2016, $692,000.00

Page 56 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $499,100.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $403,600, FY 2018 $95,500
Accounts: Project #: 21411; Fund #: 11569; Award# 10095
Contract Number(s): 1518-14681
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minorityparticipation and partial MWBE waiver.

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Summary: In September, 2015, this Board approved Contract No. 1518-14681 with Revenue Solutions,
Inc. to implement an Integrated Tax Processing System (ITSP). The Bureau of Technology now seeks
Board approval of an amendment to the ITSP contract to incorporate additional business processes into
the system.

This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code.
Revenue Solutions, Inc. was previously awarded a contract through a competitive
Request for Proposal (RFP) process by the State of Rhode Island. Cook County wishes to leverage this
procurement effort.
BOARD OF REVIEW
17-4185
Presented by: ERNESTINE POINTER, Secretary of the Board, Board of Review
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Board of Review
Action: Requesting a “For Payment Only” for outstanding invoices in FY 2017
Payee: US Bank Equipment Finance
Good(s) or Service(s): Rental of Kodak Scanners

Page 57 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Fiscal Impact: $4,849.46
Accounts: 050-630 Rental of Office Equipment
Contract Number(s): “N/A”
Summary:

Initially, the BOR rented the scanning equipment with the understanding that we would need

it for 9-12 months in order to scan and save previously processed Appeals files as a part of our new
digital appeals process.

We now need to scan files from our PTAB division for the same purpose and

this could take approximately 9-12 months.
As it has been determined that there is a continued need for these services, BOR will work with the
Office of the Chief Procurement Officer to conduct the appropriate procurement process for a contract.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY
17-3313
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Action: Approval of the annual payment to the Center for Conflict Resolution, pursuant to the Circuit
Court of Cook County General Administrative Order 2017-03
Payee: Center for Conflict Resolution, Chicago, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Dispute resolution services
Fiscal Impact: $164,046.50, from statutory fees collected for this purpose
Accounts: 1531-260 (520830)
Contract Number(s): N/A
IN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER NO. 2017-03
SUBJECT: ILLINOIS NOT-FOR-PROFIT DISPUTE RESOLUTION ACT

Pursuant to the Illinois Not-For-Profit Dispute Resolution Act (710 ILCS 20/1 et seq.), the Clerk of the

Page 58 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Circuit Court of Cook County collects fees from civil filings for disbursement to the Dispute Resolution
Centers which qualify under said Act and General Order 19 of the Circuit Court of Cook County. Fees
collected and available for disbursement from this Fund for the year 2016 total $164,046.50.
Upon review of applications received for funds collected in 2016, the sole qualifying applicant under the
requirements set forth in said Act and General Order 19 of the Circuit Court of Cook County was found
to be the Center for Conflict Resolution.
It is eligible for the maximum amount allowable for
disbursement to any Dispute Resolution Center in a given year of $200,000.00.
Therefore, it is hereby ordered that the amount of $164,046.50, representing the fees collected for the
year 2016, shall be disbursed to the Center for Conflict Resolution.

Dated this 10th day of May 2017. This order shall be spread upon the records of this Court and
published.
ENTER:
Timothy C. Evans
Chief Judge
Circuit Court of Cook County
17-3315
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Westcare Illinois, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Support Services and Program coordination for Adult Redeploy Illinois Hope
Model Court
Original Contract Period: 7/1/2014 - 6/30/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 7/1/2017-6/30/2018
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $522,959.32
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/10/2015, $195,057.16
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/7/2015, $195,057.16; 7/1/2015-6/30/2016
Previous

Chief

Procurement

Officer

Increase(s)

or

Extension(s):

Page 59 of 66

8/12/2016,

$132,845;

7/1/2016 -

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

6/30/2017
This Increase Requested: $135,771.92
Potential Fiscal Impact: All grant-funded, FY 2017 $56,571.63, FY 2018 $79,200.29
Accounts: Grant award pending, account 260 (520830)
Contract Number(s): 1530-14412
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Under this contract Westcare Illinois Inc. (Westcare) will continue to provide a broad
spectrum of behavioral and mental health services to program participants in the Adult Redeploy Illinois
ARI-HOPE and ARI-ACT courts which are post-plea problem-solving courts. Services include trauma
intervention and cognitive behavioral therapy. Over the last three program years, Westcare has delivered
services to more than 200 program participants. Funds would be used for program salaries, payroll fringe
benefits, supplies, curriculum, training, and indirect costs. All services are paid through ARI grant funds.

This is a sole source procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code. A
Request for Proposal (RFP) will be developed for these services for the program year beginning
7/1/2018.
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT
17-0413
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court, Cook County Department of Revenue and Cook County
Sheriff’s Office.
Vendor: System Innovators, a division of N. Harris Computer Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): iNovah Software Maintenance and Support
Contract Value: $779,065.79
Contract period: 7/1/2017 - 6/30/2022, with one (1) one (1)year renewal option

Page 60 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2017 $145,281.26;
$155,628.92; FY 2020 $161,075.93; FY 2021 166,713.58.

July 19, 2017

FY

2018 $150,366.10;

FY

2019

Fiscal Impact per Department:
Clerk of the Circuit Court: FY 2017: $67,032.00; FY 2018: $69,378.12; FY 2019 $71,806.35; FY 2020:
$74,319.58; FY 2021: 76,920.76.
Cook County Department of Revenue: FY 2017:
$30,183.76; FY 2020: $31,240.19; FY 2021: $32,333.59.

$28,176.86;

FY

2018:

$29,163.05;

FY

2019:

Cook County Sheriff’s Office: FY 2017 $50,072.40; FY 2018: $51,824.93; FY 2019: $53,638.81; FY
2020: $55,516.16; FY 2021: $57,459.23.
Accounts: 335-441; 007-441; 230-441
Contract Number(s): 1418-13938
Concurrence(s):
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Bureau of Technology Concurs
Summary: The Clerk of the Circuit Court, Sheriff’s Office and Department of Revenue request
authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute a contract with the System
Innovators to provide maintenance and technical support for the existing iNovah software currently in
use for the revenue/cashiering system in three County agencies. The County was able to obtain cost
savings of a 1.5% in annual support and maintenance fees by negotiating a five-year support and obtain
consistent service levels for all three agencies.

This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.

Page 61 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

17-2237
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Clerk of the Circuit Court
Vendor: Paper Solutions, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Printing of Suburban and City of Chicago Personal Issue Tickets
Original Contract Period: 5/1/2015 - 4/30/2017, with one (1), two (2) year renewal option
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 5/1/2017 - 4/30/2019
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $245,084.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/1/2015, $245,084.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $374,263.12
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2017 $64,600.00; FY 2018 $187,131.56; FY 2019 $122,531.56
Accounts: 335-240
Contract Number(s): 1484-14289
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and exercise of the contract’s two-year renewal option will allow the Clerk of
the Circuit Court to continue to receive printing services for personal issue tickets for the City of
Chicago and suburbs. The services provide the Clerk of the Circuit Court tickets to be distributed to local
law enforcement.

Page 62 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. Paper Solutions was the lowest, responsive, and responsible bidder
17-3877
Presented by: DOROTHY BROWN, Clerk of the Circuit Court
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s):
Clerk of the Circuit Court, Cook County Clerk, Office of the Chief Procurement
Officer, Department of Revenue, Zoning Board of Appeals, Office of the Assessor, Secretary to the
Board , Board of Review, Department of Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Chicago Tribune Company, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Publication of Legal Notices
Contract Value: $529,361.71
Contract period: 8/1/2017 - 7/31/2020 with two (2), one (1) year optional renewals
Potential Fiscal Year Budget
$176,453.92 FY 2020 $117,635.91

Impact:

FY

2017 $58,817.96,

FY

2018 $176,453.92,

FY

2019

Fiscal Impact Per Department:

Clerk of the Circuit Court: FY2017:$30,068.88; FY2018: $90,206.70; FY2019: $90,206.70; FY2020:
$60,137.76
Cook County
$37,769.73

Clerk:

FY2017:

$18,884.85;

Office of the Chief Procurement
$15,548.40; FY2020: $10,365.67

Officer:

FY2018:

FY2017:

$56,654.59;

FY2019:

$56,654.59;

FY2020:

$5,182.80;

FY2018:

$15,548.40;

FY2019:

Department of Revenue: FY2017: $48.96; FY2018: $146.91; FY2019: $146.91; FY2020 $97.93
Zoning Board
$3,916.64

of

Appeals:

FY2017:

$1,958.32 FY2018:

$5,875.02;

FY2019:

$5,875.02;

Office of the Assessor: FY2017: $372.10; FY2018: $1,116.24; FY2019: $1,116.24; FY2020: $744.17
Secretary to the Board: FY2017 $391.68; FY2018: $1,175.00 FY2019: $1,175.00; FY2020 $783.32

Page 63 of 66

FY2020

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Board of Review: FY2017:$89.12; FY2018: $267.30; FY2019: $267.30; FY2020 $178.22
Department of Transportation
$5,463.76; FY2020 $3,642.48

and

Highways:

FY2017:

$1,821.25;

FY2018:

$5,463.76;

FY2019:

Accounts: Clerk of the Circuit Court 335-245, Cook County Clerk 524-245, Office of the Chief
Procurement Officer 030-245, Department of Revenue 007-245, Zoning Board of Appeals 170-245,
Office of the Assessor 040-245, Secretary to the Board 018-353, Department of Transportation and
Highways 501-245, Board of Review 050-245
Contract Number(s): 1684-15660
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MBE/WBE
waiver with indirect participation.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Chicago Tribune services is needed to provide Publication of Legal Notices for the Cook
County Agencies.

The contract was awarded though the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Chicago Tribune Company, LLC. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES
17-3845
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department
Other Part(ies): Lyons Township, Lyons, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services:
to Lyons Township

Hireback Police Services provided by the Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department

Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period:
funding is approved.

Upon execution of the agreement by all parties with automatic one-year renewals, if

Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue.

Page 64 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

Accounts: None
Summary: As part of this agreement, the Sheriff’s Office will assign one (1) Hireback Cook County
Sheriff’s Police Department Officer and one (1) police car to Lyons Township, seven (7) days a week
between the hours of 3:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.

Under this agreement, the Lyons Township agrees to pay the Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department
the rate of $40.00 per hour for the “Extra Duty” Police Services rendered by the Cook County Sheriff’s
Police Department Hirebacks Officers. The total cost for a six (6) hour shift will be $240.00.
17-4157
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department
Other Part(ies): Orland Township, Orland Park, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services:
and Orland Township

Hireback Police Services provided by the Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department

Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Upon execution of this agreement by all the parties and continue for one (1) year.
Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue Neutral
Accounts: None
Summary: As part of this agreement, the Sheriff’s Office will assign one (1) Hireback Cook County
Sheriff’s Police Department Officer and one (1) police car to Orland Township, as follows:

1. 5/17/2017 - 9/4/2017 from 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
2. 10/27/2017 - 10/30/2017 from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Under this agreement, the Orland Township agrees to pay the Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department
the rate of $40.00 per hour for the Extra Duty Police Services rendered by the Cook County Sheriff’s
Police Department Hireback Officers.

Page 65 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

July 19, 2017

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY
17-4234
Presented by: KIMBERLY FOXX, Cook County State’s Attorney
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Cook County’s State’s Attorney
Request: Transfer of funds
Reason:
folders.

To provide sufficient funding to participate in a countywide contract for file jackets and

From Account(s): 250-350 Office Supplies, $15,000.00
To Account(s): 250-240 External Graphics and Reproduction Services, $15,000.00
Total Amount of Transfer: $15,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of funds
in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date, and what
was the balance 30 days prior to that date?

May 25, 2017
How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified?
that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.

List any other accounts

This account was identified as having the adequate funding to support purchase of similar classification
of supplies. No other accounts were considered for this purpose.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result in
the account that funds are transferred from.

None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was originally
budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in the fiscal year.

Transfer represents a correction of funds classification necessary to enter into an existing contract.

Page 66 of 66

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

July 19, 2017

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
AUDIT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 18, 2017
17-3883 REPORT Office of the Public Administrator Inventory Internal Audit Report, Report Period:
May 2017
17-3911 REPORT FY’17 2nd Quarter Open Recommendations Status Report, Report Period: May 2017
17-3898 REPORT Cook County Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for the year ended
11/30/2016
17-3921 REPORT Cook County Illinois Report to the County President, Board of Commissioners and
the Audit Committee, 5/31/2017, Report Period: 12/1/2015 - 11/30/2016
17-3922 REPORT Cook County Illinois Report on Federal Awards (In accordance with the Single Audit
Act Amendments of 1996, and Uniform Guidance) for the Fiscal Year ended 11/30/2016. Report Period:
12/1/2015 - 11/30/2016
17-3926 REPORT Cook County Health and Hospitals System of Illinois (An Enterprise Fund of Cook
County Illinois), Financial Report, 11/30/2016, Report Period: 12/1/2015 - 11/30/2016
17-3928 REPORT Cook County Health and Hospitals System Report to the Audit and Compliance
Committee, 5/31/2017, Report Period: 12/1/2015 - 11/30/2016
17-3929 REPORT Cook County Illinois Actuarial Study of the Workers Compensation and Liability
Self-Insured Programs as of 11/30/2016, Report Period: As of 11/30/2016
17-3925 REPORT Financial Statements as of November 30, 2016 and 2015, Supplemental Information
as of 11/30/2016 and the Independent Auditor’s Reports, Report Period: FY 2015 - FY 2016
17-3597 REPORT Independent Auditor’s Report of the Financial Statements of the Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Cook County, Report Period: Fiscal Year Ended 11/30/2016
___________
FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 18, 2017
17-3978 PROPOSED RESOLUTIONA Resolution Calling For A Meeting Of The Finance Committee
To Look Into Alleged Unfairness In Cook County’s Property Tax Assessment System
17-4135 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Requesting A Hearing Of The Finance Committee To Discuss
The Statutory Responsibilities Of The Office Of The Cook County Assessor
17-4154 PROPOSED ORDINANCE An Ordinance Providing For The Issuance Of Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds, Series 2017, Of The County Of Cook, Illinois; The Approval, Execution And Delivery Of A Third
Supplemental Indenture: And Providing For Other Matters In Connection With The Issuance Of The

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

July 19, 2017

Series 2017 Bonds
17-4125 PROPOSED ORDINANCE An Ordinance Providing For The Issuance Of General Obligation
Refunding Bonds Of The County Of Cook, Illinois
17-1888 PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT Johnson Controls, Inc., Arlington Heights, Illinois
17-1933 PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT NORESCO, LLC, Des Plaines, Illinois
17-1934 PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT NORESCO, LLC, Des Plaines, Illinois
17-1935 PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT NORESCO, LLC, Des Plaines, Illinois
___________

TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 18, 2017
17-3919 REPORT Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
1st Quarter of 2017
___________

BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-3927 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Dansherside Holdings LLC 6b Property Tax Incentive Request
17-3943 PROPOSED RESOLUTION PROPOSED RESOLUTION Debbie Sale And Dale Brown
Class 8 Property Tax Incentive Request
17-3961 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Todd Kuipers/Budding Polishing And Metal Finishing Class 8
Property Tax Incentive Request
17-3964 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Speed Machine Inc. 6b Property Tax Incentive Request
17-3965 PROPOSED RESOLUTION 340 Sibley, LLC Class 8 Property Tax Incentive Request
___________

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-3930 REPORT Business Diversity Report for FY 2016, Report Period: 12/1/2015 - 11/30/2016
___________

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

July 19, 2017

WORKFORCE HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-3210 PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership,
Chicago, Illinois
17-3960 PROPOSED GRANT AWARD U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
___________
FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE WORKERS COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-3676 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Request For A Presentation From Cook County State’s Attorney
And Department Of Risk Management To Provide An Overview Of Cook County Workers’ Compensation
Claims, Policies And Strategies
___________
RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-4313 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular consent calendar meeting held on 6/6/2017
17-4315 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular meeting held on 6/7/2017
17-3293 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT An Amendment To The Rules Of Organization
And Procedure Of The Cook County Board Of Commissioners
___________
FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
COURT ORDERS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
PATIENT ARRESTEE CLAIMS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
17-3840 REPORT Claims Recoveries Settlements Period Ending 6/30/2017
17-4241 REPORT Self-Insurance Claims Period Ending 6/30/2017

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

July 19, 2017

17-4162 REPORT Comptrollers Period Ending 5/31/2017
17-1557 REPORT Health & Hospital Report Period July 2017
17-2432 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT LAW LIBRARY
17-3622 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT An Amendment To The Cook County

Medical Examiner’s Ordinance
___________
ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-4226 NEW APPLICATION FOR REFERRAL TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Map
Amendment to rezone the subject property R-4 Single Family Residence District to I-4 Motor Freight
Terminal District to construct and operate a truck terminal and its accessory uses
___________

ROADS AND BRIDGES COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-3371 PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE Lake Cook Road-Weiland Road to
Hastings Lane, in the Village of Wheeling
___________

LEGISLATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF JULY 19, 2017
17-3303 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT An Amendment To The Cook County Property
Tax Assessment Classes
___________

 