JULY 8, 2010
REVISED NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the Health & Hospitals Committee of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County on Wednesday, July 14, 2010 at the hour of 11:00
A.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,
Illinois to consider the following:
1. To discuss and approve the Cook County Health and Hospitals System’s
Strategic Plan
COUNTY BOARD AGENDA ITEM #30
Transmitting a Communication from
WARREN L. BATTS, Chairman, Cook County Health & Hospitals System Board
and
WILLIAM T. FOLEY, Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Pursuant to the Ordinance establishing the Cook County Health & Hospitals System,
the Board of Directors of the Health System respectfully submits the Health System’s
Five-Year Strategic and Financial Plan to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
its approval.
The Health System began the planning process for its Five-Year Strategic and Financial
Plan in May of 2009. This process entailed extensive community input and participation
from a variety of stakeholders. At the outset of the process, as well as while the Plan
evolved, the Health System conducted a series of Town Hall meetings for the public
throughout the County. The Health System also held a series of employee, staff and
physician Town Hall meetings at various System Affiliates. In addition, over 500
patients and other stakeholders were interviewed regarding their assessment of the
County’s healthcare needs and the Health System’s current state.
System leadership and staff have been closely involved in all phases of the planning
process. Physicians and staff participated in four (4) Service Line Working Groups
established to make recommendations on the configuration of the delivery of healthcare
services in critical areas.
The Five-Year Strategic and Financial Plan presented for the County Board’s approval
is the culmination of this collaborative process. The ultimate goal of the Plan is to
provide more access and more care within available resources. The guiding principle of
the planning process was to create a healthcare delivery framework to provide for more
appropriate access to care for the vulnerable population in Cook County within available
resources.

 REVISED HEALTH & HOSPITALS COMMITTEE NOTICE
JULY 8, 2010
PAGE 2

In support of the Health System’s mission, the vision of the Five-Year Strategic and
Financial Plan is that the Health System will be recognized locally, regionally, and
nationally – and by patients and employees – as a progressively evolving model for an
accessible, integrated, patient-centered, and fiscally responsible healthcare system
focused on assuring high quality care and improving the health of residents of Cook
County.
The Ordinance establishing the Health System provides that the County Board shall
approve each Strategic and Financial Plan if, in its judgment, the Strategic and Financial
Plan is complete, is reasonably capable of being achieved, and meets the requirements
set forth in the Ordinance. After the System Board submits a Strategic and Financial
Plan to the President and the County Board, the County Board shall approve or reject
such Strategic and Financial Plan within 45 days or such Strategic and Financial Plan is
deemed approved.
The Health System Board respectfully requests that this item be referred to the Health &
Hospitals Committee.
*Note: That this committee meeting will be held pending the County Board’s
referral of this item to the Health & Hospitals Committee at the Cook
County Board Meeting of July 13, 2010.

____________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Butler
Goslin
Committee of the Whole

 