 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Health Hospitals Committee

Tuesday, June 7, 2016 11:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Steele, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)
Absent: Commissioners Moore and Murphy (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Butler asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

There were no registered public speakers
16-3633
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/23/2016

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that the Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Steele, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia,
Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners Moore and Murphy (2)

16-2948
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

ORDINANCE REGARDING THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF ADOPTION AND FAMILY
SERVICES

WHEREAS, the Cook County Of?ce of Adoption and Child Custody is one of the oldest social

service agencies in Cook County dating back to 1912 (having previously been known as the Court Service
Division of Cook County Department of Public Aid and the Department of Supportive Services); and

WHEREAS, the Of?ce, which falls under the Bureau of Administration, conducts home based social
investigations and provides other services pursuant to orders issued by the Circuit Court of Cook County in
adoption, probate, and domestic relations cases; and

WHEREAS, as a result of recent amendments to the Illinois Marriage and Dissolution of Marriage Act, all
references to ?custody? have been replaced by ?parental responsibility allocation? and ?custody? will no longer
be used by the courts in matters pertaining to child parenting time and parental responsibility; and

WHEREAS, in consideration of the various changes in the Illinois Marriage and Dissolution Act, it is hereby
recommended that the Of?ce be renamed the Department of Adoption and Family Supportive Services; and

WHEREAS, the Of?ce has not been separately codi?ed in the County?s Code of Ordinances and it is hereby
desired to further delineate the Of?ce?s responsibilities and fees in the Cook County Code of Ordinances;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 38,
Health and Human Services, Article VII, Adoption and Family Supportive Services, Section 38-170 through
38-173 of the Cook County Code are hereby enacted as follows:

ARTICLE VII.
ADOPTION AND FAMILY SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
Sec. 38-170. Establishment.

The Cook County Of?ce of Adoption and Child Custody Advocacy shall hereby be renamed the Cook
County Department of Adoption and Family Supportive Services (?Department?) and shall remain within the
administrative responsibility and jurisdiction of the Cook County Bureau of Administration.

Sec. 38-171. Powers and Duties.
The Department shall perform the following services and duties:

Social Study Investigations. Upon the direction and order of a judge of the Circuit Court of Cook
County, the Department shall conduct a social study investigation and issue a report to the judge who ordered
said investigation for the following matters:

(1) Adoptions;
(2) Allocation of parental responsibility or parenting time cases; and
(3) Probate cases involving guardianship and/or custody of a child;

Other Services. The Department may provide additional services on behalf of the Circuit Court of
Cook County including but not limited to:

Intake screening interview of prospective adoptive parents and, if age appropriate, the child or
children;

(2) Interviews with birth parents prior to adoption consent to obtain extensive background information
with the understanding that non-identifying information, as authorized by statute, will be available
to the adoptive parents and the adoptee later in life;

(3) Fingerprinting processing for statutorily required criminal background checks;

(4) Post adoption services involving inquiries from adult adoptees and to a lesser degree adoptive and
birth parents and other qualifying relatives for non- identifying information concerning the
adoptee?s biological background; and

(5) Any other service authorized by an Illinois statute, a General Administrative Order of the Circuit
Court of Cook County or ordinance of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

The Director of the Department shall attempt to meet, minimally on a quarterly basis, with
the presiding judges of the circuit court responsible for adoption, probate and domestic relations cases and
(ii) the Of?ce of the Chief Judge to discuss court orders and case management relevant to the Department?s
responsibilities. The Department Director shall report the outcome of these meetings to the Chief of the Bureau
of Administration.

Sec. 38-173. Fees.
The Department shall charge fees for the following services with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of this Code.

(1) Adoption Intake Interview - Initial meeting with prospective adoptive family providing an overview
of the adoption process, review of quali?cations for adoption and implementation of the process for
criminal and DCFS background check.

(2) Birth Parent Interview and Consent - interviewing and collecting information from the birth parent
and overview of the signature of documents that allow the birth parent(s) to relinquish rights and
responsibilities of the child to a speci?c person.

(3) Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee) - Retrieval and review of adoption ?le and generating a
report of non-identifying information.

(4) Adoption Fingerprint Processing (paid by adoptive parent(s)) - Assists attorneys and parents with
retrieval and processing of state and federal criminal background checks.

(5) Foreign Jurisdiction Social Study Investigation Request (paid by individual residing outside of the
court?s jurisdiction) - Court of foreign jurisdiction (outside of cook county) informally requests that
the Department conduct a child custody social study investigation of a cook county resident that
includes interviews of all house hold residents, cook county criminal background checks and DCFS
background checks and retrieval of school progress reports.

(6) Adoption Social Study Investigation Fee (per child) (Based on annual income of, and paid by,
adoptive parent(s). Annual income shall be veri?ed by either a current federal or state tax return or
current wages and tax statements, e. W-2 and/ or 1099 forms) -Includes interview of all house
hold residents and child care providers of the adoptee; retrieval of ?nancial information, character
and employment references, medical information, school progress reports and other mandatory
information integrated into a written report concerning adoption proceedings.

All fees shall be collected by the Department and remitted to the Cook County Department of Revenue.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32, Section 32-1
of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown below:

38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, ARTICLE VII, ADOPTION AND FAMILY
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES

38-173 Of?ce of Adoption and Family Supportive Services Fees

 

 

 

 

 

 


158-173(1) Adoption Intake Interview M) 
338-173(1) .Birth Parent Interview and Consent 100.00 per hour 
258-173(3) - Adoption - Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee) L00
38-173(4) :Adoption Fingerprint Administrative Fee (paid by aggltiye parent[ I 

 

 

be used by the courts in matters pertaining to child parenting time and parental responsibility; and

WHEREAS, in consideration of the various changes in the Illinois Marriage and Dissolution Act, it is hereby
recommended that the Of?ce be renamed the Department of Adoption and Family Supportive Services; and

WHEREAS, the Of?ce has not been separately codi?ed in the County?s Code of Ordinances and it is hereby desired
to further delineate the Of?ce?s responsibilities and fees in the Cook County Code of Ordinances;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 3 8, Health
and Human Services, Article VII., Adoption and Family Supportive Services, Section 38-170 through 38-173 of
the Cook County Code are hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE VII.
ADOPTION AND FAMILY SUPPORTIVE SERVICES

Sec. 38-170. Establishment.

The Cook County Of?ce of Adoption and Child Custody Advocacy shall hereby be renamed the Cook
County Department of Adoption and Family Supportive Services (?Department?) and shall remain within the
administrative responsibility and jurisdiction of the Cook County Bureau of Administration.
Sec. 38-171. Powers and Duties.
The Department shall perform the following services and duties:
Social Study Investigations. Upon the direction and order of a judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, the
Department shall conduct a social study investigation and issue a report to the judge who ordered said investigation
for the following matters:

(1) Adoptions;

(2) Allocation of parental responsibility or parenting time cases; and

(3) Probate cases involving guardianship and/or custody of a child;

Other Services. The Department may provide additional services on behalf of the Circuit
Court of Cook County including but not limited to:

(1) Intake screening interview of prospective adoptive parents and, if age appropriate, the child or children;
(2) Interviews with birth parents prior to adoption consent to obtain extensive background information with
the understanding that non-identifying information, as authorized by statute, will be available to the

adoptive parents and the adoptee later in life;

(3) Fingerprinting processing for statutorily required criminal background checks;

(4) Post adoption services involving inquiries from adult adoptees and to a lesser degree adoptive and birth
parents and other qualifying relatives for non- identifying information concerning the adoptee?s
biological background; and

(5) Any other service authorized by an Illinois statute, a General Administrative Order of the Circuit Court
of Cook County or ordinance of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

The Director of the Department shall attempt to meet, minimally on a quarterly basis, with the presiding
judges of the circuit court responsible for adoption, probate and domestic relations cases and (ii) the Of?ce of the
Chief Judge to discuss court orders and case management relevant to the Department?s responsibilities. The
Department Director shall report the outcome of these meetings to the Chief of the Bureau of Administration.

Sec. 38-173. Fees.
The Department shall charge fees for the following services with the amounts as set in Section 32-1 of this Code.

(1) Adoption Intake Interview - Initial meeting with prospective adoptive family providing an overview of
the adoption process, review of quali?cations for adoption and implementation of the process for
criminal and DCFS background check.

(2) Birth Parent Interview and Consent - interviewing and collecting information from the birth parent and
overview of the signature of documents that allow the birth parent(s) to relinquish rights and
responsibilities of the child to a speci?c person.

(3) Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee) - Retrieval and review of adoption ?le and generating a report
of non-identifying information.

(4) Adoption Fingerprint Processing (paid by adoptive parent(s)) - Assists attorneys and parents with
retrieval and processing of state and federal criminal background checks.

(5) Foreign Jurisdiction Social Study Investigation Request (paid by individual residing outside of the
court?s jurisdiction) - Court of foreign jurisdiction (outside of cook county) informally requests that the
Department conduct a child custody social study investigation of a cook county resident that includes
interviews of all house hold residents, cook county criminal background checks and DCFS background
checks and retrieval of school progress reports.

(6) Adoption Social Study Investigation Fee (per child) (Based on annual income of, and paid by, adoptive
parent(s). Annual income shall be veri?ed by either a current federal or state tax return or current
wages and tax statements, W-2 and/ or 1099 forms) -Includes interview of all house hold residents
and child care providers of the adoptee; retrieval of ?nancial information, character and employment
references, medical information, school progress reports and other mandatory information integrated
into a written report concerning adoption proceedings.

All fees shall be collected by the Department and remitted to the Cook County Department of Revenue.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32,
Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be as shown below:

CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, ARTICLE VII, ADOPTION AND FAMILY
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES

'38-173 lOffice of Adoption and l?umily Supportjye?ervices Fees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38-173( 1) Adoption Intake Interview 150.00
258-173(2) :Birth Parent Interview and Consent 100.00 per hour
38-1736) lAdoption - Adult Adoptee Inquiry (paid by Adoptee) 100.00
I38-17339 ?Adoption Administrative Fee {paid by adoptive 
Foreign Jurisdiction Social Study Investigation Request (paid bv 500.00
individual residing outside of the iurisdiction)
38-173(6) Adoption Social Study Investigation line ("per child) (paid by adoptive
parent):
If Annual Income is: I
Under 10 000 I 
10 001-14 999 
15 000-19 999 125.00
20,000-24,999 225.00
25,000?29,999 325.00
30,000-34,999 475.00
35,000-39,999 675.00
40,000-44,999 775.00
45,000-49,999 925.00
50,000-59,999 1,025.00
60,000-69,999 1,225.00
70,000?79,999 1,325.00
80,000-89,999 1,525.00
90,000-99,999 1,675.00
100,000-149,999 2,025.00
150,000?200,000 2,525.00
200,000 and above 3,025.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Legislative History: 5/11/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Health Hospitals Committee

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this Ordinance
be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Aye: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Steele, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia,
Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioner Moore and Murphy (2)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Vice Chairman Steele, that this meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

 

Aye: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Steele, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia,
Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners Moore and Murphy (2)

ReSpectfully submitted,

 

Chairman QrEtary

video recording of this meeting is available at 

 

