Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Business and Economic Development Committee
Wednesday, April 29, 2015

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-3002
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/1/2015

15-2365
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM FEE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 TAXATION, Article II,
Page 1 of 2

 Division1- Generally, Section 74-46 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 74-46. Bureau of Economic Development Property Tax Incentive Program Fee.
Cook County Bureau of Economic Development shall charge the following processing fees in connection with
the property tax incentive program review conducted by the Bureau of Economic Development:
(a) All property tax incentive applications received by the Cook County Assessor, as provided for in Division 2
of this Article, that require a Cook County Board of Commissioners Resolution of support shall be assessed a
fee of $1,000.00. Upon submission of the property tax incentive application to the Bureau of Economic
Development, the applicant seeking the incentive and Resolution of support shall pay a non-refundable fee to the
County of Cook to cover administrative costs related to processing the application.
(b) All property tax incentive applications received by the Cook County Assessor, as provided for in Division 2
of this Article, that require a Resolution of support from the Economic Development Advisory Committee
(EDAC) shall be assessed a fee of $2,500.00. Upon submission of the property tax incentive application to the
Bureau of Economic Development, the applicant seeking the incentive and Resolution of support shall pay a
non-refundable fee to the County of Cook to cover administrative costs related to processing the application.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 FEES, shall be
amended to include the Bureau of Economic Development Property Tax Incentive Program Fees provided in
Chapter 74 TAXATION, Section 74-46.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on June 1, 2015
Legislative History: 4/1/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Business and Economic Development
Committee

_______________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Murphy
Arroyo Jr., Butler, Gainer, Gorman, Moore, Schneider, Steele

Page 2 of 2

 