Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Wednesday, September 13, 2017

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-5182
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07/19/2017
17-4297
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Dr. Janette C. Wilson Howard
Position: At large Commissioner
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues

Page 1 of 4

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

September 13, 2017

Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/2018 or until a successor is approved and qualified.
Note: Dr. Wilson and Ms. Bernarda Wong will complete the terms of Dr. Ann Kalayil & Dr. Harvette
Gray
Legislative History :

7/19/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmenta

17-4298
Presented by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Eileen J. Dordek, LCSW
Position: 10th District Women’s Commission
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Commission on Women’s Issues
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 5/11/2018 or until a successor is appointed or qualified.
Legislative History :

7/19/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmenta

17-3674
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LUIS ARROYO JR, GREGG GOSLIN and DEBORAH SIMS,
Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING
PROPERTY

LIMITATION

OF

UNMANNED

AERIAL

SYSTEM

USAGE

ON

COUNTY

WHEREAS, use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), including drones, has exponentially increased and
is becoming more common in both commercial and private contexts; and
WHEREAS, increased UAS use has given rise to emerging conflicts and challenges requiring additional

Page 2 of 4

 Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

September 13, 2017

guidance as to responsible and lawful operation thereof; and
WHEREAS, given their ability to carry and smuggle drugs, weapons or other contraband, UAS usage is
increasingly presenting safety concerns for the operations of jails and prisons nationally, including Cook
County Jail; and
WHEREAS, UAS can also be used to surreptitiously take photographs and video footage, which can
create a privacy, safety or security threat at other county property such as county courthouses and health
system facilities;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
58, Offenses and Miscellaneous Offenses, Article II, Offenses Involving Property Rights Sec. 58-48 of
the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 58-48. Limitation of Unmanned Aerial System Usage on County Property.

(a) The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Agency shall mean any County agency that is the authorized custodian of County property.
Unmanned Aerial System or UAS shall mean an unmanned aerial vehicle or drone that is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within the aircraft.
Property shall mean any land, building or facility owned or leased by Cook County.
(a) No person shall, at any time, fly any form of UAS on County property unless expressly
authorized by the Agency that is the custodian of said property. Any person violating the provisions of this
Section shall be subject to a fine of $2,500.00 for each offense and shall be adjudicated pursuant to
Chapter 2, Administration, Article IX, Administrative Hearings, of this Code.
(b) Confiscation; seizure. Whenever an Agency or any of its duly authorized representatives shall
discover any UAS used in violation of this section on County property, they are hereby authorized and
empowered forthwith to confiscate; seize and take possession of such UAS and it shall thereupon be
deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.
(c) Destruction; redemption. If it is determined at an administrative hearing, by a preponderance of
evidence, that the seized UAS was not operated in violation of this section, such UAS may be claimed by
its owner without charge within 7 days of such determination. In the event that the UAS remains
unclaimed after such period, the Agency shall cause the seized UAS to be destroyed.

Page 3 of 4

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations
Committee

September 13, 2017

(d) Operations Authorized by the State of Illinois - Exception. Notwithstanding the prohibitions set
forth in this section, nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of an unmanned aerial
system (UAS) by a law enforcement agency in accordance with Section 15 of the Freedom from Drone
Surveillance Act, codified at 725 ILCS 167/1, et seq., or its successor provision.
(e) If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, subdivision or other part of this ordinance or its
applications shall be adjudged by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or otherwise invalidate the remainder of this ordinance which
shall remain in full force and effect except as limited by such order or judgment.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

6/7/17 -

Legislative History :

7/19/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

-

recommend fo

 