 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes of the Health Hospitals Committee

1:45 PM
Tuesday, February 7, 2017 Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
NOTICE AND AGENDA
Present: Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (l3)
Absent: Butler, Steele, ritchey and Gainer (4)

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance with
Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore

17-1608

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval ofthe minutes from the meeting of 12/13/2016

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to approve
17-1608. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)
Absent: Butler, Steele, Fritchey and Gainer (4)
17-1001

Presented by: DONNA M. ALEXANDER, VMD, Administrator, Department of Animal and Rabies
Control

REPORT

Department: Animal Control

Request: Receive and File

Report Title: 2016 Cook County Environmental Impact Research Group Annual Report: ?One Health?
Report Period: 2016

Summary: The Cook County Department of Animal Control in conjunction with its partners in The
Cook County Environmental Impact Research Group will present its annual report entitled ?One Health.?
This report focuses on the collaborative efforts of medical doctors, veterinarians, public health of?cials
and wildlife biologists to monitor zoonotic and companion animal diseases in Cook County. The
presentation will be followed by a question and answer period with the panel.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to recommend
for receiving and ?ling 17-1001. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (13)
Absent: Butler, Steele, ritchey and Gainer (4)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that this was
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (l3)
Absent: Butler, Steele, ritchey and Gainer (4)

Respectfully submitted,
. imp r?r. . . -

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

 

