Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations
Tuesday, May 19, 2015

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance
of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time
for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes;
the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is
germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from
the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
15-0244
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 7 Section 1 - Administrative Departments
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
1 - Administrative, Chapter 7 - Administrative Departments, Section 1 - Departments Established of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
Sec. 1-7-1. Departments Established.
There shall be maintained under the supervision of the President and Board of Commissioners
various departments, each under the authority of a head of department governed by the rules of

 the Board, and all of said departments shall be under the general supervision and direction of the
General Superintendent of the District, as follows:
(1) Office of the General Superintendent, General Office, under the direction and general
supervision of the General Superintendent.
(2) Office of the Secretary, the duties of which may be in whole or in part, contracted to be
performed by the County of Cook, under the direction and general supervision of the General
Superintendent or the Secretary.
(3) Legal Department, under the direction and general supervision of the Chief Attorney.
(4) Finance and Administration, under the direction and general supervision of the Chief
Financial Officer, who also shall be deemed the Treasurer.
(5) Resource Management Department, under the direction and general supervision of the
Director of Resource Management.
(6) Landscape Maintenance Department, under the direction and general supervision of the
Director of Landscape Maintenance.
(7) Facilities and Fleet Maintenance Department, under the direction and general supervision of
the Director of Facilities and Fleet Maintenance.
(7) (8) Planning and Development Department, under the direction and general supervision of the
Director of Planning and Development.
(8) (9) Department of Law Enforcement, under the direction and general supervision of the Chief
of Police.
(9) (10) Permits, Concessions, and Volunteer Resources, and Recreation Department, under the
direction and general supervision of the Director of Permits, Concessions, and Recreation,
Volunteer Resources and Permits.
(10) (11) Human Resources, under the direction and general supervision of the Director of
Human Resources.
(12) Conservation and Experiential Programming Department, under the direction and general
supervision of the Director of Conservation and Experiential Programming.
*****
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Page 2 of 28

 15-0245
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 8 Section 2 - District Finance
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 1 Administrative, Chapter 8 - District Finances, Section 2 - Contracts and Purchases of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
1-8-2: - CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.
A. Conditions and Restrictions on Awarding a Contract:
*****
2. Restrictions on Awarding a Contract: No person or business entity shall be awarded a contract
or subcontract with the Forest Preserve District, for a period of five (5) years from the date of
conviction or entry of a plea or admission of guilt, if that person or business entity:
a. Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State, of bribery or attempting to bribe
an officer or employee of a unit of State or local government or school district in the State
in that officer's or employee's official capacity;
b. Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State, of bid-rigging or attempting to
rig bids as defined in the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and Clayton Act;
c. Has been convicted of bid-rigging or attempting to rig bids under the laws of the State;
d. Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State of Illinois, of price-fixing or
attempting to fix prices as defined by the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and Clayton Act;
e. Has been convicted of price-fixing or attempting to fix prices under the laws of the State of
Illinois;
f. Has been convicted of defrauding or attempting to defraud any unit of State or local
government or school district within the State of Illinois;
g. Has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of
committing a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection
Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the
Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the
Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state,
which governs the payment of wages;
gh. Has made an admission of guilt of such conduct as set forth in subparagraphs a. through fg.
above, which admission is a matter of record, whether or not such person or business entity
was subject to prosecution for the offense or offenses admitted to;
hi. Has entered a plea of nolo contendere to charges of bribery, price-fixing, bid-rigging,
fraud, or wage theft as set forth in subparagraphs a. through gf. above.
3.

Disqualification of Business Entity: A person or business entity shall be disqualified if:
a. It is convicted, or enters a plea of nolo contendere, or makes an admission of guilt to any
act described in subparagraphs 2.a. through 2.hi. above.

*****
4. Exceptions: If a person or business entity is ineligible to contract with the District due to the
provisions of Section 1-8-2.A.2.g above, then the person or business entity seeking the contract
may submit a request for a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period to the Purchasing
Page 3 of 28

 Agent. The request shall be in writing in a manner and form prescribed by the Purchasing Agent
and shall include that one or more of the following actions have been taken:
a.
There has been a bona fide change in ownership or control of the ineligible business
entity;
b.
c.

d.

Disciplinary action has been taken against the individual(s) responsible for the acts giving
rise to the violation;
Remedial action has been taken to prevent a recurrence of the acts giving rise to the
disqualification or default; or
Other factors that the person or business entity believes are relevant.

The Purchasing Agent shall review the documentation submitted, make any inquiries deemed necessary,
request additional documentation where warranted and determine whether a reduction or waiver is
appropriate. Should the Purchasing Agent determine that a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period
is appropriate; the Purchasing Agent shall submit its decision and findings to the District Board.
In addition, a using department may request an exception to such period of ineligibility with respect to a
particular contract by submitting a written request to the Purchasing Agent, supported by facts that
establish that it is in the best interests of the District that the contract be made from such ineligible person
or business entity. The Purchasing Agent shall review the documentation, make any inquiries deemed
necessary, and determine whether the request should be approved. If an exception is granted, such
exception shall apply to that contract only and the period of ineligibility shall continue for its full term as
to any other contract. Said exceptions granted by the Purchasing Agent shall be communicated to the
District Board.
45. Voiding Contracts: Any contract or subcontract found to have been awarded in violation of this
subsection shall be voidable at discretion of the Forest Preserve District Board of
Commissioners. Payment for work completed at the time of any such voiding shall be at a
quantum merit rate less a twenty-five (25) percent liquidated damage reserve.
56. Hearing: The determination as to whether a Person is disqualified under any provision of this
Section 1-8-2 of the District's Code or has made a false statement, shall be made pursuant to the
Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2, Article IX, of the
Cook County Code.
76. Appeals: Decisions of the Cook County Administrative Hearing Department shall be subject to
review pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Review Act (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
87. Bids to Contain Information Herein: Specifications for all bids shall contain the information
contained in this subsection and bidders shall certify that they have read the information
contained herein and are not in violation thereof.
*****
V. Disqualification Due to Prior Default or Termination:
*****
DD. Selection of Professional Services for Debt Transactions:
1.
Selection.
(a) For each debt transaction or for multiple debt transactions the Chief Financial Officer shall
select three or more firms from the qualified list developed by the District and/or Cook County
for each of the following, as required for the transaction: bond counsel, underwriter counsel,
special tax counsel, pension-disclosure counsel, and financial advisor.

Page 4 of 28

 (b) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the law firms under consideration to
provide legal services submit a proposal which shall include at least the following: experience
with the relevant type of financing; knowledge of the District; the key personnel to be assigned
for the engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees or fee
structure for the engagement; the firm's capacity for, experience in, and commitment to providing
continuing legal advice and support in such areas as compliance and taxation; and the manner and
degree to which the firm will use an engagement on the contemplated financing initiative to
promote or incubate the participation of minorities, women, and veterans as legal professionals,
on the potential engagement.
(c) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the firms under consideration for
investment banking services submit a proposal which shall include at least the following:
experience with the particular type of financing; a recommended strategy for identifying and
targeting investors in the bonds or notes; knowledge of the District; the key personnel to be
assigned for the engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the proposed fees or
fee structure for the engagement; and the manner in and degree to which the firm will use an
engagement on the contemplated financing initiative to promote or incubate the participation of
minorities, women, and veterans as finance professionals, on any potential engagement.
(d) The Chief Financial Officer shall request that each of the financial advisors under
consideration to provide financial-advisory services submit a proposal which shall include at least
the following: experience with the particular type of financing; knowledge of the District; the key
personnel to be assigned for the engagement, including their qualifications and experience; the
proposed fees for the engagement; the firm's capacity for, experience in, and commitment to
providing advice and support in such areas as pricing and marketing of municipal bonds; and the
manner in and degree to which the firm will use an engagement on the contemplated financing to
promote or incubate the participation of minorities, women, and veterans as finance professionals,
on the potential engagement.
(e) To redress the historical under-representation of minority- and woman-owned firms in the
financial services arena, in the selection of law firms, investment banks, and financial advisors
associated with bond issuances, it shall be the continued goal of the District that:
(1)

No less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the cumulative remunerated portion of
legal services associated with a financing initiative shall be provided by law
firms that are certified as MBEs or WBEs under District’s Minority- and
Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance and that consistently maintain
and staff a functional commercial presence and office in Cook County, IL; and

(2)

No less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the cumulative underwriting liability in
a financing initiative shall be undertaken by investment banks that are at least 51
percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more persons who are either a
minority or a woman and that consistently maintain and staff a functional
commercial presence and office in Cook County, IL; and

(3)

No less than thirty-five percent (35%) of the cumulative remunerated portion of
financial-advisory services associated with a financing initiative shall be
provided by financial-advisor firms that are at least 51 percent owned, controlled,
and managed by one or more persons who are either a minority or a woman and
that consistently maintain and staff a functional commercial presence and office
in Cook County, IL.
Page 5 of 28

 (f) The Chief Financial Officer shall recommend to the President the selection of legal counsel,
investment banks, financial advisors, and other professionals based upon the proposals provided
per this subdivision. In making the recommendation, the Chief Financial Officer shall consider
methods to give multiple firms a fair opportunity to compete for and participate in District bond
sales. The selection shall be made by the President upon the recommendation of the Chief
Financial Officer, and shall be submitted to the District Board for approval. The Chief Financial
Officer shall report to the District Board a summary of the rationale of any proposed financing
initiative; the financial benefits of a proposed financing approach with regards to the District's
long-term fiscal health; a summary of the financing team proposed to work on the financing
initiative; an identification of any firms that are certified as MBEs or WBEs or 51 percent owned,
controlled, and managed by minority individuals or women; the total estimated participation of
such firms as a percentage of professional services (comprised of legal and financial advisory
services) and as a percentage of underwriting liability; and, on financing initiatives where
circumstances are such that the 35 percent goals set forth in Subsection (e) cannot be prudently
reached, an explanation of such circumstances. The proposals by firms selected to work on a
financing initiative shall be available for review by members of the District Board.
2. Specific bond underwriter requirements. Each contract between the District and any bond underwriters
shall include the following:
(a) The underwriter shall use its best efforts to assure that the District meets its objectives in the
fair and reasonable allocation of bond selling commissions to members of the underwriting
syndicate, particularly to Cook County and minority- and women-owned firms; and
(b) The underwriter shall report the allocation of bond selling commissions and fees received by
each member of the underwriting syndicate to the Chief Financial Officer within 30 days of
closing of the bond issue; and
(c) The underwriter shall comply with all limitations or disclosure requirements concerning
political contributions that are or may be imposed by the Municipal Securities Regulatory Board
or the Securities and Exchange Commission. Failure by the underwriter to comply with this
provision shall not void the sale, but the underwriter may be subject to disqualification.
3. Continued Management of Bond Proceeds.
(a) When permissible and practicable under related bond ordinances, debt instruments, and debt
agreements, the Chief Financial Officer shall maintain investment of bond proceeds in accord
with:
(1)
The Illinois Public Funds Investment Act; or
(2)

Such policies as are promulgated by the Chief Financial Officer, following
submission to the District Board.

(b) In selecting financial institutions to serve as broker-dealers in acquiring investments of bond
proceeds under this Section, the Chief Financial Officer shall, for each contemplated investment,
elicit proposals from at least three broker-dealers deemed qualified under policies and procedures
promulgated by the Chief Financial Officer, the State of Illinois, or the City of Chicago.
(c) In the selection of broker-dealers under this Section, it shall be the continued goal of the
District that no less than 35 percent of the cumulative value of the proposed investment purchased
in a given fiscal year shall be consummated by one or more broker-dealers that consistently

Page 6 of 28

 maintain and staff a functional commercial presence and office in Cook County, IL and are at
least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by minority individuals or women.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0248
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 4 Recreation in Forest Preserves
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
2 – Forest Preserve Land and Property, Chapter 4 – Recreation in Forest Preserves, Section 2 Picnics of
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
2-4-2: PICNICS EVENTS REQUIRING PERMITS.
No person shall use any portion of the Forest Preserve District property nor any of the buildings within
said District for the purposes of meeting or holding picnics to the exclusion of any other person or
persons from such portion of the property or buildings of the District without having first obtained a
permit in writing from the District, with proper authorization of the General Superintendent or his
designee. Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined seventy-five dollars
($75.00) for each offense.
A. Permits, Non-profit organization reduced rate.
1.

For any Special Use Permit for a special event or special activity field permit for
a special event or special activity with participation in excess of 25 persons, or
requested in conjunction with an event under Category W, Category X, Category
Y, Category Z of the Fee Schedule, the total of all applicable fees as calculated
by the Recreation Department of the Forest Preserve District shall be reduced by
50 percent, when the applicant is a school or bona fide nonprofit organization,
residing in the County of Cook.

2.

A bona fide nonprofit organization is one which is engaged in charitable,
educational, civic, youth and faith-based activities. For purposes of qualifying for
the Nonprofit Organization Reduced Rate, an applicant must submit proof of the
following:
a. Exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
b. Current registration with the Illinois Attorney General as a charitable
organization;
c. The location of the official headquarters or administrative office of the
organization submitting the request for said permit is located in the
Page 7 of 28

 County of Cook and is the same as that which is on file with the Illinois
Attorney General, or was submitted for exemption under Section 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, except in the case of local chapters
of national organizations, wherein the local chapter maintains a Cook
County office and submits proof of affiliation with the national
organization.
3.

If the applicant is a school located within Cook County, no additional documentation or
proof of nonprofit status shall be required other than a letter signed by an official of the
school stating that the activity/event is officially sanctioned under and supervised by
employee(s) of the school.

4.

Notwithstanding any other published deadlines, all applications for Reduced Rate Special
Use or Special Activity Field Permits must be received by the Recreation Department no
less than 45 days prior to the date of the Special Event or Activity.

5.

Vending of food or merchandise is not allowed under Reduced Rate Special Use or
Special Activity Field Permits, except for charitable organization with nest assets of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less who apply for the vending fee permit waiver.
Qualification for the vending fee permit waiver requires registration with the Illinois
Attorney General's office as a charitable organization, and submission of a balance
statement for the previous year to verify its assets as the time of application for a permit.
all other permits for events that include vending and/or sale of food or merchandise shall
be charged at the full rate.

6.

Effective Date: This subsection takes effect January 1, 2009.

A. Classifications of Uses. There are some uses of District property that, because of their nature, are
allowed only with a permit. Through the permit application and review process, the District can
determine whether these uses can be conducted in a manner that protects public safety, District property,
the District’s objectives and goals for the District property sought to be used, and the rights and interest of
other members of the public. These uses are identified below in Section 2-4-2(B) – Permit Required.
Uses that require a fee other than a permit fee (e.g. license fee) are described where applicable in the
District’s Code of Ordinances.
B. Permit Required. No person shall use any portion of the Forest Preserve District property nor any of
the buildings within said District, for any of the following uses, unless the person has first obtained, and
has physical possession of, a permit allowing such use in writing from the District, with proper
authorization of the General Superintendent or his or her designee, or when required, the Board of
Commissioners, in accordance with Section 7-1-1 Fees:
1.

a picnic or other gathering with 25 or more people;

2.

any use on District property, if the District property is not open to the general public at
the time of the proposed use;
Cross References: Hours of Operation, §2-4-1; Entering Buildings or Areas Closed to
Public or Scheduled for Specific Group or Activity,§ 3-3-11

3.

uses that are intended or likely to either exclude or interfere with use of or enjoyment by
other members of the public of a particular area of District property, including, weddings,
Page 8 of 28

 receptions, meetings, assemblies, parades, marches, drills, maneuvers, rallies, pickets,
speeches, and/or addresseses involving 25 or more people;
4.

conducting shows, exhibits, dramatic or musical performances, plays, acts, or motion
pictures;

5.

taking any still or motion pictures or painting or drawing pictures for commercial
purposes or for use in commercial advertising;

6.

play or operate any sound amplification device including radios, television sets, public
address systems, musical instruments, and the like; or operate any other energy
amplification device in such a way as to be audible beyond the immediate vicinity of
such device or musical instrument or in such a manner as to disturb picnic areas or other
public gathering places;

Cross Reference: Disorderly Conduct, §3-3-1
7.

or conduct organized contests or sports, including any team sport or game such as
baseball, football, field hockey, volleyball, lacrosse, soccer, track or horseshoes;
Cross Reference: Sports and Games, §2-4-3

8.

conducting day camps or play camps, or other organized activities for a group; or

Cross Reference: Day Camps, §3-3-16
9.

any use of or on District property that requires a permit under other sections of the
District’s Code.
Cross References:
Fees and Occupancy of District Lands, §1-9-3
Use of Balloons, Airplanes, and Parachutes, §2-1-1
Protection of Native Landscape, §2-2-1
Erection and Ownership of Structures, §2-3-1
Glass Beverage Container Ordinance, § 2-3-8
Alcoholic Beverages, §3-3-2
Discharging Toy Firearms, 3-3-6
Fireworks, §3-3-7
Injury or Destruction to Forest Preserve property, §3-3-14
Snowmobile: Permit to Operate, §4-4-2
Railroads,§ 5-1-4
General License and Permit Provisions,§ 6-1-1 et seq.
Permit Required, §6-2-1
Fee Schedules, §7-1-1

C. Permit Rules and Application Review.
1.

Establishment of Rules. In addition to the rules identified in this Ordinance, the

Page 9 of 28

 General Superintendent may promulgate additional rules governing a permit or the permit
application and review process (the “Rules”) if those rules are designed:
(i)

to protect or minimize damage to District property and the flora and
fauna within the District;

(ii)

to protect the physical safety of people using District property;

(iii)

to minimize the interference by the proposed use with the use and
enjoyment of District property by others;

(iv)

to ensure an orderly and organized use of District property; or

(v)

to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

2.

Duration of Permit. The District may, in its discretion, make the permit valid for a period
of less than one year, or any portion thereof, or on an annual basis; provided, however,
that the fees charged are consistent with Title 7, Chapter 1 (Fee Schedule) of the
District’s Code of Ordinances. Permits are not transferable and permit fees paid to the
District are not refundable. The actual permit (not an electronic copy) must be available
for inspection at and during the event/activity for which the permit was acquired.

3.

Compliance with Rules. The person or entity to whom or which a permit has been issued
shall comply with all applicable laws and Rules. The District may revoke a permit for any
violation of such laws or Rules. Any misuse or damage to District property will be the
responsibility of the permit holder. The District may keep part or all of a permit holder’s
security deposit to remedy damage to District property.
Cross References: General Penalty and Late Fee, § 1-4-1(D); Application of
Provisions, §1-4-2; Limitation of Remedial Action, §3-3-20; Revocation of
Licenses or Permits, §6-1-4

4.

Special Conditions. In the case of permits for events which may require special law
enforcement services, or which would place an atypical burden on District resources , or
which increase the District’s liability exposure, the General Superintendent may (1)
authorize additional fees to be imposed to cover the cost of such special law enforcement
services, or atypical burden; and/or (2) require the permit applicant to provide liability
insurance naming the District as an additional insured with coverage limits reasonably
necessary to protect the District.

5.

District's Reserved Right. Even if a permit has been granted, the District reserves the
right to restrict access to or close any District property temporarily or to revoke a permit
because of (i) a threat to the safety of those using such property, including threats posed
by the weather, or (ii) potential damage to sensitive natural resource areas, or (iii)
interference by the permittee with the use and enjoyment of District property by others.
Cross Reference: Limitation of Remedial Action, §3-3-20

6.

Review of Application. The District shall grant the permit unless it determines that:

Page 10 of 28

 (i)

the proposed use would interfere or be inconsistent with (a) the District's current
or designated use of the District property upon which the proposed use would
take place, (b) the District's future plans for the District property upon which the
proposed use would take place, or (c) a license issued by the District for the use
of the District property upon which the proposed use would take place;

(ii)

the proposed use may materially damage District property or materially impact
sensitive natural resource areas;

(iii)

the proposed use will delay, hinder, or prevent the District's implementation of
planning for the District property;

(iv)

the proposed use will interfere with other scheduled or existing uses of the
District property sought to be used or would occur at a time when the District
property sought to be used is not open to the public;

(v)

the proposed use violates federal, state or local laws or Rules;

(vi)

the proposed use poses a substantial threat or danger to public safety or, if it is a
contest or sporting event, poses a reasonable likelihood of physical injury;

(vii)

the applicant has misrepresented, falsified, or withheld required information;

(viii)

the applicant has, within the previous year, violated this Ordinance or Rules and,
based on such violation(s), the applicant's future use of District property may
interfere with others' use and enjoyment of District property;
Cross Reference: Limitation on Remedial Action, §3-3-20

(ix)

the applicant still owes the District damages or outstanding fee(s) for prior
event(s) held by applicant on District property; or
Cross Reference: General Penalty and Late Fee, § 1-4-1(D)

(x)

D.

the proposed use would interfere with others' enjoyment and use of District
property.

Reduced Rate Permits. For any event, activity, and/or use for which a permit is required,
the permit fee shall be reduced as follows: (1) by 50 percent, when the applicant is a
school or bona fide nonprofit organization, residing in the County of Cook; and (2) by 50
percent, when the applicant is a veterans’ organization residing in the County of Cook.
1. Non-Veteran Non-Profit Organizations. A bona fide nonprofit organization is
one which is engaged in charitable, educational, civic, youth and faith-based
activities. For purposes of qualifying for the reduced rate, an applicant must
submit proof of the following:
(i)

Exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code; or current registration with the Illinois Attorney General
as a charitable organization; and

Page 11 of 28

 (ii)

The location of the official headquarters or administrative office
of the organization submitting the request for said permit is
located in the County of Cook and is the same as that which is on
file with the Illinois Attorney General, or was submitted for
exemption under Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, except in the case of local chapters of national
organizations, wherein the local chapter maintains a Cook
County office and submits proof of affiliation with the national
organization.

If the applicant is a school located within Cook County, no additional
documentation or proof of nonprofit status shall be required other than a letter
signed by an official of the school stating that the activity, event, and/or use is
officially sanctioned under and supervised by employee(s) of the school.
2.
Veterans Organizations. Veterans organizations include, but are not
limited to; the Retired Enlisted Association, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and
American Legion. An applicant must submit proof of the following:
(i)

Exemption under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and

(ii)

The location of the official headquarters or administrative office
of the organization submitting the request for said permit is
located in the County of Cook and is the same as that which was
submitted for exemption under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19)
of the Internal Revenue Code, except in the case of local
chapters of national organizations, wherein the local chapter
maintains a Cook County office and submits proof of affiliation
with the national organization.

3.
Costs Not Waived. Any rate reduction shall not apply to applicable
application fees, cost of District provided security, and vending.
4.
Deadlines. Notwithstanding any other published deadlines, all
applications for permits at a reduced rate must be received by the District no less
than 45 days prior to the date of the event, activity, and/or use, unless such time
period is otherwise waived by the General Superintendent.
Cross Reference: Fees, §7-1-1
E. Penalties. Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this Section (excluding Section 2-42(B)(9)) shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, plus the actual permit fee(s) which would have been charged had the person
or entity properly obtained the permit. If a permit is required under another section of the District’s Code
per Section 2-4-2(B)(9), then a violation of such requirement shall be fined in accordance with such other
section of the District’s Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 12 of 28

 Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0249
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 4 Recreation in Forest Preserves
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
2 – Forest Preserve Land and Property, Chapter 4 – Recreation in Forest Preserves, Section 2 Boating of
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
2-4-5: BOATING.
A. General Restrictions: No person shall bring into, use or navigate any boat, yacht, canoe, kayak or
paddle board; plastic, canvass or rubber raft, inner-tube, sail-surf board or other watercraft upon
any watercourse, lagoon, lake, pond or slough under the exclusive control of the Forest Preserve
District, except at such place or places as may be provided or designated for such purpose by
administrative order of the General Superintendent and in accordance with rules and regulations.
*****
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0250
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
3 – Police Regulations, Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous Misconduct, Section 3 Disorderly Conduct of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
3-3-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
*****
10. All persons who engage in behavior that intimidates others or interferes with or unreasonably
disrupts others in the normal use of the Forest Preserves, that occurs as a result of intoxication,
drunkenness or the influence of alcoholic beverage(s), drug(s), controlled substance(s) or
intoxicating compounds(s) Appears in any public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol,
narcotics or other drug, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that he/she may endanger
himself/herself or other persons or property, or annoy persons in his/her vicinity; shall be deemed
guilty of disorderly conduct and upon conviction thereof shall be deemed guilty of disorderly
conduct.
Page 13 of 28

 *****
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0251
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
3 – Police Regulations, Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous Misconduct, Section 3 Limitation on Remedial Action
of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
3-3-20: LIMITATION ON REMEDIAL ACTION.
*****
B. Notwithstanding, the foregoing provision of Subsection A. of this Section, where the violation of the
Code or the Permit is the distribution of alcoholic if beverages, the remedial action of the Forest preserve
District Police Force shall include ordering curtailment of such distribution the Forest Preserve District
Police Force can take remedial action including ordering curtailment of the picnic, event, or other activity
taking place, regardless of whether any prior violation of the Code or Permits has taken place, in the
following instances:
(i) the violation of the Code or the Permit is the distribution or sale of alcoholic beverages;
(ii) imminent threat of grave harm to persons or property, including threats posed by the weather;
(iii) potential damage to sensitive natural resource areas; or
(iv) interference by the permittee with the use and enjoyment of District property by others.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0252
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
3 - Police Regulations, Chapter 3 - Miscellaneous Misconduct, (New) Section 3-3-25 Possession of Drug
Paraphernalia of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
(New) 3-3-25: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.

Page 14 of 28

 A. Definitions. Drug paraphernalia means all items, equipment, products and materials of any kind
which may be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human
body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et
seq.) and the Illinois Controlled Substance Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.). It includes, but is not limited
to, pipes, bongs, rolling papers and any other item converted for the uses set forth above.
B. Violation. No person shall possess, bring onto or use drug paraphernalia on District property.
C. Penalty.
1. Any person violating Subsection (B) shall be subject to a mandatory fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
2. Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the possession of drug paraphernalia
in violation of Subsection (B) shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to Section 3-4-1
of this Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0253
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Misconduct
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title
3 – Police Regulations, Chapter 3 – Miscellaneous Misconduct, Section 3 Alcoholic Beverages of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Section 3-3-2 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
A. Words and Terms Defined: The term "alcoholic beverage(s)" in this provision is used to
include products of or containing alcohol, alcoholic liquor or intoxicating liquor. Except for
products one-half (½) of one (1) percent, or less, of alcohol by volume.
Alcohol means the products of distillation of any fermented liquid, but does not include denatured
alcohol or wood alcohol.
Alcoholic liquor includes products of or containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer for human
consumption as a beverage.
Beer means a beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of barley or other
grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among other things, beer, ale, and stout.
Spirits means beverages which contain alcohol obtained by distillation and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors.

Page 15 of 28

 Wine means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural contents of fruits
and vegetables, except wine intended for use and used by any church or religious organization for
sacramental purposes.
B. Sale of Alcoholic Beverages: The sale of alcoholic beverages is allowed on District land only
under the following circumstances:
1. Alcoholic beverages may be sold in connection with the operation of the facilities of the Chicago
Zoological Society or the Chicago Horticultural Society on land owned by the District.
2. Alcoholic beverages may be sold on any land used for a golf course owned by the District, pursuant to
the terms and conditions of a Special Use Permit, duly approved by the Board.
3. Subject to the requirements described below, alcoholic beverages may be sold in connection with
authorized events held on District property for recreational purposes where the consumption or possession
of alcohol is not prohibited.
(a) Requests for permits for the sale of alcoholic beverages on District property must be
initiated by completing an application for a Special Use Permit;
(b) The applicant seeking a permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages must provide the
District with evidence satisfactory to the District that the applicant has a license or permit
to sell alcoholic beverages from the city, village, or incorporated town in which alcoholic
beverages are proposed to be sold; or issued by the Cook County Liquor Commissioner if
alcoholic beverages are proposed to be sold within unincorporated Cook County; for the
time, date, and place of event for which the permit allowing sale of alcoholic beverages is
requested;
(c) The applicant seeking a permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages must provide the
District with evidence satisfactory to the District that the applicant has license or permit
to sell alcoholic beverages from the State of Illinois for the time, date, and place of event
for which the permit allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages is requested; and
(d) The applicant seeking a permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages must provide the
District with evidence satisfactory to the District that the applicant has dram shop liability
insurance at maximum coverage limits so as to hold the District harmless from all
financial loss, damage, and harm.
For clarification, alcohol may be deemed to be sold if given away free with paid for item, depending
on applicable facts and circumstances.
C. Application:
1. Except as to those instances where the issuance of a Special Use Permit for the sale of
alcoholic beverages has otherwise been approved by the Board, requests for said Permits
shall be initiated by completing and filing an application on a form provided by the
District. Failure to furnish information required in said application or furnishing
incomplete or false information, in said application, shall constitute a basis for the denial
of said application.
2. Each application shall be signed and verified by oath or affirmation by the Applicant,
if a natural person, or in the case of an association, by a member or partner thereof, or, in

Page 16 of 28

 the case of a corporation, by an executive officer thereof or any person specifically
authorized by the corporation to sign the application.
3. Each application shall be accompanied with a nonrefundable application fee in an
amount determined by the Board.
DC. Possession and Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages: Except as stated herein, the possession
or consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted in or upon the District's land, property or
facilities, provided that:
1. The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage does not violate any
provision of this Code or any federal, state, or local law; and
2. The quantity of the alcoholic beverages is for the personal use and consumption of the
possessor, his family members or his guests; and
3. The possession, sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in or upon the
District's land, property or facilities where the District's Board of Commissioners (the
"Board") or its General Superintendent has so provided; and
4. The consumption of any alcoholic beverage is prohibited upon or within fifty (50) feet
of any roadway or within any area designated for parking by the District.
ED. Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined not less
than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

15-0254
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 1 Chapter 9 Section 3 - Fees and Occupancy of District Lands.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 1 - Administrative,
Chapter 9 - Land Acquisitions and Dedications, Section 3 - Fees and Occupancy of District Lands of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
1-9-3: - FEES AND OCCUPANCY OF DISTRICT LANDS.
A. Occupancy by Other than Forest Preserve District Employees: Hereafter, all leases, privileges and
occupancy must be requested by the applicant from the Board of Forest Preserve Commissioners,
and no leases or permits of occupancy shall be given without first having the approval of the Board.
Page 17 of 28

 B.

Resident District Employees: Employee occupancy shall be governed as follows:
1.

All Employees occupying residences are required and must agree to perform the following
duties.
a.

Must be thoroughly familiar with District boundaries within their assigned area and make
periodic inspections to make certain that District property is protected and report any
prohibited or illegal activity and encroachments.

b.

Be on constant watch for fires. During times of extreme fire dangers, must be available to
report for fire duty. All watchman residents must be fire certified as a burn crew member
and be in possession of the issued personal fire protection gear, flapper and/or backpack
pump.

c.

Check all bodies of water; clean up all minor debris; check all facilities for vandalism; and
during the appropriate seasons check area frequently for illegal hunters.

d.

Complete and submit Resident Watchman Report on a bi-monthly basis.

e.

Must be constantly aware that as a public employee residing on public lands assistance
must be offered to those visitors who need and request help and/or information. Must
ensure that the District provided sign indicating that the residence is a Watchman
Residence is prominently posted at all times.

2.
3.

All occupants of District residences will pay utilities costs (heat, electric, water and sewage).
An employee granted permission to occupy a Residence that is attached to a District facility
shall pay an occupancy fee of Four Hundred and sixty-eight dollars ($468.00) per month.

4.

An employee granted permission to occupy a Residence that is adjacent to a District facility
shall pay an occupancy fee of Five Hundred and eighty-five dollars ($585.00) per month.

5.

An employee granted permission to occupy a Free Standing residence shall pay an occupancy
fee of Seven Hundred and two dollars ($702.00) per month.

6.

Every two years, subject to approval for renewal of the Occupancy Agreement, every resident
will sign a new agreement with any changes that have been voted upon by the Housing
Committee and approved by the General Superintendent. Any fee increase will commence at
this time based on the Consumer Price Index added to the current fee and incorporated into the
new Occupancy Agreement.

7.

All fees collected will be placed into a Special Revenue fund, which will be used to maintain
the major repairs of the residences and/or build standard maintenance facilities with an attached
apartment. A house that has been deemed obsolete or is a burden to the District will be
authorized for demolition.

8.

The Housing Committee shall conduct no less than one annual inspection of all residences. If a
house has been deemed by the Housing Committee to be obsolete or a burden to the District, a
recommendation for demolition will be presented to the Board of Commissioners. The Housing
Committee may authorize random inspections of each residence in the Housing Program as

Page 18 of 28

 deemed necessary to maintain the integrity of the program and compliance with the terms of the
Occupancy Agreement.
9.

All residents will be responsible for "Minor Maintenance" and the Forest Preserve District will
be responsible for "Major Maintenance", as each term is defined in the Occupancy Agreement.

10. This section, relating to Fees and Occupancy of District Lands, shall be re-evaluated by the
Housing Committee and reported to the General Superintendent on an annual basis. An Annual
Report, which will include any recommended changes, shall be placed on the Agenda of the
March meeting of the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners.
11. Those employees who retire or resign from employment with the District shall be required to
vacate the premises within a reasonable time, not to exceed sixty (60) days after their last day of
employment. Retirees and employees who resign shall be responsible for paying all required
fees.
12. Widows/Widowers of employees shall be required to vacate the premises within a reasonable
period of time, not to exceed six (6) months after the spouse's demise, provided
widows/widowers are appropriately indicated in the Occupancy Agreement. Widows/Widowers
shall be responsible for paying all required fees, but shall not be responsible for providing
services of the Occupancy Agreement.
13. The General Superintendent shall establish policies and procedures for the occupancy of District
residences as set forth in the Resident Watchman Program Manual. The General Superintendent
has the discretion to add or subtract any task necessary to assist in the mission statement of the
Forest Preserve District.
14. A Housing Committee shall be appointed and designated by the General Superintendent.
15. The performance of all duties and responsibilities of the resident watchman as set forth in the
Occupancy Agreement shall be monitored by the Housing Committee. Failure to perform or to
adhere to the terms of the Occupancy Agreement by the resident watchman and authorized
occupants of the District residence may result in termination of the Occupancy Agreement.
16. The Forest Preserve District Superintendent shall place on the agenda of the March meeting of
the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners an Annual report to the Forest Preserve
Board of Commissioners listing the names of employees occupying forest preserve homes for
part or all of the fiscal year, as well as their job titles and salaries. In addition, the report shall
contain copies of all watchman reports filed by employees occupying forest preserve homes.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Page 19 of 28

 15-0255
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 3 Chapter 3 Section 16 - Games and Sports
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 3 - Police Regulations,
Chapter 3 - Miscellaneous Conduct, Section 16 - Games and Sports of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
3-3-16: - GAMES AND SPORTS.
A. Skating, Sledding and Skiing in a Reckless Manner: No person shall skate, skateboard, sled
or ski in any part of the Forest Preserve in a reckless manner, or at the speed greater than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard to the number of people in such part of the Forest
Preserve System and the use thereof, or so as to endanger life or limb, or damage the property
of any person; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit
any exhibition of, or contests in, fast or fancy skating on such portions of any ice pond or rink
as may be set aside for that purpose by the General Superintendent or his/her designee. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this Subsection shall be fined not less than seventyfive dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
B. Golf: All persons are hereby prohibited from practicing and playing golf upon any forest
preserve except upon the designated public golf links of Forest Preserve at the times and in
the areas as may be designated by the General Superintendent. Any person violating any of
the provisions of this Subsection shall be fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
C. Bicycling: Persons may operate a bicycle only on paths, trails, roadways or other areas
designated for bicycle use. Any person operating a bicycle on forest preserve property other
than on paths, trails, roadways or other areas designated for bicycle use, shall be fined not
less than seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense.
Persons operating bicycles must ride on the right-hand side of such path, trail, roadway or other
area designated for bicycle use by the General Superintendent. No person may operate a bicycle
while carrying another person on the handlebars, frame or fender, or so ride on a bicycle, except
in a suitable seat attached to such bicycle for such purpose. No person may operate a bicycle in a
reckless manner so as to endanger pedestrians. No person shall cling or attach himself/herself or
his/her bicycle to any other moving vehicle. The operator of a bicycle shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians on walkways and to all vehicles on roadways, and shall walk his/her bicycle in
all areas where riding is prohibited by the General Superintendent, as indicated by sign or notice.
The operator of a bicycle shall give an audible warning, by horn, bell, voice or otherwise, when
approaching any pedestrian from behind. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Subsection shall be fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
DC. Day Camps: Day camps, play classes or organized groups not sponsored by the Forest
Preserve may use facilities of the Forest Preserve when not in conflict with the Forest Preserve
recreational program, with the approval of the General Superintendent.
Page 20 of 28

 (Ord. No. 11-O-10, 7-13-11)
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...en
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

15-0256
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 4 Chapter 3 Section 1 - Operation of Bicycles
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 4 - Motor Vehicles and
Traffic, Chapter 3 - Bicycles, Section 1 - Operation of Bicycles of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
*****
4-3-1: - OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
A. Bicycles shall be operated as closely to the right-hand curb or right-hand side of the path, trail
or roadway as conditions will permit and not more than two (2) bicycles shall be operated
abreast or side by side.
B. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any bicycle when upon the path, trail or roadway, to
carry any other person upon the handlebar or frame of any such bicycle, or for any person to
so ride upon any such bicycle.
C. Bicycles shall not be operated upon any path, trail or roadway where the operation of bicycles
has been prohibited or in any manner that has been prohibited by order of the Board of
Commissioners or the General Superintendent and signs have been erected indicating such
prohibition.
D. No person age 14 or under shall operate a bicycle nor ride upon a bicycle on Cook County
Forest Preserve property, bikeway, or trail unless that person is wearing a properly fitted and
fastened protective helmet that meets the standards promulgated by either: The American
National Standards Institute, the American Society for Testing, the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission, or the Snell Memorial Foundation, Inc., or standards
subsequently established by those entities. This requirement also applies to a person who
rides upon a bicycle while in a restraining seat that is attached to the bicycle or in a trailer
towed by the bicycle.
E. A violation of this ordinance is an infraction punishable by the following: first violation will
be a warning; second violation will be a fine of $10.00; and each additional violation will be
a fine of $25.00. The parent or legal guardian having control or custody of an unemancipated
minor age 14 or under whose conduct violates this ordinance shall be jointly and severally
liable with the minor age 14 or under for the amount of the fine imposed.

Page 21 of 28

 F. Fines collected for a violation of this ordinance shall be deposited in a special account of the
Cook County Forest Preserve District to be used for bicycle safety education and for assisting
low-income families in obtaining approved bicycle helmets for children under the age of 14
years.
G. The Cook County Forest Preserve District shall create and implement a bicycle education
safety program that at a minimum includes: outreach to schools; development and distribution of
an informational brochure; placement of safety information on the District's website; appropriate
signage in Forest Preserves; and four educational programs per year.
H. The Cook County Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners has a desire to assure that
all children have access to bicycle helmets regardless of their economic situations. To address this
concern, the Forest Preserve District will develop a bicycle helmet rebate program in partnership
with appropriate non-profit groups for qualified, low-income applicants. Proof of income,
residency, and purchase must be provided. Eligibility for this program is based on Federal
Poverty Guidelines.
To support this rebate program, the District will establish a designated account that can accept
charitable donations and look for private, corporate, and organizational partners that would be
willing to make financial contributions to the program. Additionally, fine collected in violation of
this ordinance can be used for the rebate program.
(Ord. No. 2003-O-07-02-05, 5-5-04)
A.

General: Persons may operate a bicycle only on paths, trails, roadways or other areas
designated for bicycle use. Persons operating bicycles must ride on the right-hand side
of such path, trail, roadway or other area designated for bicycle use by the General
Superintendent. Not more than two (2) bicycles shall be operated abreast or side by side.
No person may operate a bicycle while carrying another person on the handlebars, frame
or fender, or so ride on a bicycle, except in a suitable seat attached to such bicycle for
such purpose. No person may operate a bicycle in a reckless manner so as to endanger
pedestrians. No person shall cling or attach himself/herself or his/her bicycle to any
other moving vehicle. The operator of a bicycle shall yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians on walkways and to all vehicles on roadways, and shall walk his/her bicycle
in all areas where riding is prohibited by the General Superintendent, as indicated by
sign or notice. The operator of a bicycle shall give an audible warning, by horn, bell,
voice or otherwise, when approaching any pedestrian from behind.

B.

Motorized Bicycles. Persons may not use or ride within the District any electric or
electric assisted bicycle capable of exceeding a speed of 15 miles per hour. Any
violation of this provision shall be fined not less than seventy-five dollars or more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. This section is not intended to prohibit
any person with mobility impairment(s) from using an electronic personal assistive
mobility device.

4-3-2: - PENALTY.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined as provided in Section 14-1 of this Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption...

Page 22 of 28

 Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
15-0258
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Title 6 Chapter 2 Section 1 – Hawkers and Peddlers Vending
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title 6 - Business, License and
Permit Provisions, Chapter 2 - Hawkers and Peddlers Vending, Section 1 - Permit Required of the Forest
Preserves District of Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
6-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED 6-2-1: - PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall expose or offer for sale any articles or thing, or do any hawking or peddling
within or upon any of said preserves without first obtaining a permit from the District Board of
Commissioners.
(1989 Code) Outside of authorized District personnel in the performance of their job duties, no
person or organization shall upon or in connection with any District property: collect fees,
admission or cover charges, or display or offer for sale any articles, items or things, or conduct or
solicit any business, trade, occupation or profession without obtaining a valid vendor permit from
the General Superintendent of the Forest Preserve or his/her delegate, and then only in
accordance with the terms and conditions thereof, it being the intention of the District to control
commercial enterprises or sales on District lands. Nothing in this section shall preclude the (1)
collection of admission fees or cover charges, or the sale of articles, items or other things by an
organization, company or other entity for the purpose of fundraising for a charitable,
humanitarian or benevolent cause if the organization, company or other entity has obtained a
special use permit for the event; or (2) collection of compensation in connection with an entity or
individual training, instructing, or leading a fitness or athletic class involving five (5) or fewer
individuals.”
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Page 23 of 28

 15-0303
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN and RICHARD R. BOYKIN, Cook County Board Commissioner
AN AMENDMENT PROHIBITING THE USE OF TOBACCO AND MARIJUANA ON ALL
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY PROPERTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part 1 – General Ordinances,
Chapter 2 – Administration, Article IIII – County Board, Division 2. – Rules of Organization and
Procedure, Sections 3-3-21 – 3-3-23 are hereby amended as follows:
3-3-21: - SMOKING TOBACCO AND MARIJUANA USE POLICY FOR FOREST PRESERVE
DISTRICT FACILITIES AND PROPERTIES.
A.

Prohibition of Smoking Tobacco and Marijuana Use in Cook County Forest Preserve District
Facilities and Properties: The use of any tobacco or marijuana products in any form Smoking by
smoking, inhaling, exhaling, burning, consuming or carrying of any lighted cigarette, lighted
cigar, lighted pipe, vaporizer, snuff, snus, chewing tobacco or other lighted tobacco product in
any other form ("smoking") is not permitted in any areas of any District FacilityProperty. This
ban on smoking applies to all public areas of District as well as all areas used only by District
employees or officials, including without limitation individual offices. This ban does not include
facilities utilized as private residences.

B.

Prohibition of Smoking Tobacco and Marijuana Use in District Vehicles: Smoking Tobacco and
Marijuana use is prohibited in all vehicles owned or leased by the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County.

C.

Reasonable Distance: Smoking is prohibited within fifteen (15) feet of an enclosed area of any
District Facility, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute a fire hazard in the
event of an emergency evacuation of the District Facility. However, if the District operates
District Facilities within buildings owned by third parties and the District's use in those buildings
is not exclusive, this Subsection shall apply only insofar as it restricts the conduct of District
employees.

DC.

Implementation: All appropriate District representatives, including the General Superintendent,
Superintendent of Maintenance and Operations, and all elected officials and the appropriate
personnel of the Chicago Zoological Society and the Chicago Horticultural Society shall
implement the foregoing policy.

E.

Effect of Section: This Section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for District Facilities. It is intended for
this Section to apply to District Facilities. However, to the extent that any provision of this
Section is less restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance, the more restrictive
provision shall apply. This Section shall take effect immediately upon passage.

FD.

Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of Subsections 3-3-21.A., B., and C., shall be
fined seventy-five dollars ($75.00).

3-3-22: - SMOKING POLICY FOR BROOKFIELD ZOO.
A.

Prohibition of Smoking in Brookfield Zoo: Smoking by inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying
any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any other form ("smoking")
Page 24 of 28

 is not permitted in any areas of any Brookfield Zoo, including, without limitation, those facilities
housing administrative offices, maintenance facilities, exhibits, and all enclosed and semienclosed areas of the Brookfield Zoo. This ban on smoking applies to all public areas as well as
all areas used only by Brookfield Zoo employees or officials, including, without limitation,
individual offices, except smoking is permitted in those areas designated and identified with signs
as smoking areas by the Chicago Zoological Society.
B.

Prohibition of Smoking in Brookfield Zoo Vehicles: Smoking is prohibited in all vehicles owned
or leased by the Brookfield Zoo.

C.

Reasonable Distance: Smoking is prohibited within fifteen (15) feet of any entrance to the
Brookfield Zoo, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute a fire hazard in the
event of an emergency evacuation of the Brookfield Zoo.

D.

Implementation: All appropriate Brookfield Zoo representatives shall implement the foregoing
policy.

E.

Effect of Section: This Section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for the Brookfield Zoo. It is intended for
this Section to apply to Brookfield Zoo facilities. However, to the extent that any provision of this
Section is less restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance, the more restrictive
provision shall apply. This Section shall take effect immediately upon passage.

F.

Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined seventy-five
dollars ($75.00).

3-3-23: - SMOKING POLICY FOR CHICAGO BOTANIC GARDEN.
A.

Prohibition of Smoking in Chicago Botanic Garden: Smoking by inhaling, exhaling, burning or
carrying any lighted cigarette, cigar, lighted pipe, or other lighted tobacco product in any other
form ("smoking") is not permitted in any areas of any Chicago Botanic Garden facility,
including, without limitation, those facilities housing administrative offices, maintenance
facilities, exhibits, and all enclosed and semi-enclosed areas on the grounds of the Chicago
Botanic Garden, except smoking is permitted in those areas designated and identified with signs
as smoking areas by the Chief Executive Officer of the Chicago Botanic Garden or the Executive
Officer's designate. This ban on applies to all public areas as well as all areas used only by
Chicago Botanic Garden employees or officials, including, without limitation, individual offices.

B.

Prohibition of Smoking in Chicago Botanic Garden Vehicles: is prohibited in all vehicles owned
or leased by the Chicago Botanic Garden.

C.

Reasonable Distance: Smoking is prohibited within fifteen (15) feet of any entrance to the
Chicago Botanic Garden, so as to prohibit congestion at exits that could constitute a fire hazard in
the event of an emergency evacuation of the Chicago Botanic Garden.

D.

Implementation: All appropriate Chicago Botanic Garden representatives shall implement the
foregoing policy.

E.

Effect of Section: This Section supersedes and replaces any and all earlier resolutions and
ordinances pertaining to the subject of a smoking policy for the Chicago Botanic Garden. It is
intended for this Section to apply to Chicago Botanic Garden facilities. However, to the extent
Page 25 of 28

 that any provision of this Section is less restrictive in regulating smoking than another ordinance,
the more restrictive provision shall apply. This Section shall take effect immediately upon
passage.
F.

Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be fined seventy-five
dollars ($75.00).

Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Sponsored by:
Commissioner

15-0304
RICHARD R .BOYKIN, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of

ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 3 OF THE FOREST PRESERVE CODE OF COOK
COUNTY CONCERNING “POLICE REGULATIONS” BY ADDING A NEW SECTION, 3-16(A) PROHIBITING THE USE OF CAROTID CONTROL HOLDS BY THE COOK COUNTY
FOREST PRESERVE POLICE.
WHEREAS, the sworn officers employed by the Cook County Forest Preserve Police will maintain a
courteous and professional demeanor when dealing with the public pursuant to current standing orders,
policies and procedures; and,
WHEREAS, the sworn officers employed by the Cook County Forest Preserve Police will maintain
compliance with all laws, current standing orders, policies and procedures mandating that said officers
select the appropriate level of force based on a subject’s actions, and that employees further modify their
selection of options as the subject offers less or greater resistance; and,
WHEREAS, carotid control holds are largely ineffective and create the potential for a subject to panic
and react with greater resistance than he or she otherwise might deploy during an officer restraint; and,
WHEREAS, the President and Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County intend to
modify the County Code of Ordinances with respect to the current orders, policies and procedures of the
Office of the sworn officers employed by the Cook County Forest Preserve Police, requiring a progressive
and reasonable escalation and de-escalation of officer-applied force; and,
WHEREAS, such modification by the President and Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County is consistent with the requirements of state and federal law; and,
WHEREAS, the President and Board of Commissioners of Cook County further intend to expressly
prohibit the use of carotid control holds by the sworn officers employed by the Cook County Forest
Preserve, with the exception of conditions expressly enumerated in section 3-1-6(A) of this ordinance;
NOW THEREFORE,
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND COMMISSIONERS OF THE FOREST
PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY:
SECTION 1. The above recitals are expressly incorporated herein and made part hereof as though fully
set forth herein.

Page 26 of 28

 SECTION 2. Chapter 3 of the Forest Preserve Code of Cook County concerning “Police Regulations” is
hereby amended by adding a new Section 3-1-6(A) as follows:
Sec. 3-1-6(A) Policy on Use of Force- choke holds prohibited
1. Employees of the Cook County Forest Preserve Police shall use an amount of force
reasonably necessary based on the totality of the circumstances to perform a lawful task,
effect an arrest, overcome resistance, control a subject, or protect themselves or others from
injury. Circumstances that may govern the reasonableness of using a particular force option
include but are not limited to: (1) whether the officer reasonably believes the subject poses an
immediate threat to the safety of officers or others; and (2) whether the subject is actively
resisting arrest or attempting to evade arrest by flight.
2. After gaining total control of a subject, Employees of the Cook County Forest Preserve Police
shall:
(1) Avoid sitting, kneeling, or standing on a subject’s chest, which may result in chest
compression, thereby reducing the subject’s ability to breathe;
(2) If practicable, position the subject in a manner to allow free breathing;
(3) Monitor an arrestee until transported to a secure location; and,
(4) Seek medical attention for an arrestee who has injuries or illnesses consistent with
applicable standing orders and departmental policy directives.
3. No Employee of the Cook County Forest Preserve Police shall apply a carotid control hold in
the performance of his or her duties unless faced with a situation in which the use of deadly
force is justified under applicable law. A carotid control hold shall include but is not limited
to, any sustained pressure to the throat or windpipe, which may prevent or hinder breathing or
reduce intake of air.
4. For purposes of this section the following terms shall have the following meaning:
“Employee of the Cook County Forest Preserve Police refers to any individual
employed by the Cook County Forest Preserve who by virtue of that employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or make arrests for offenses,
whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific offenses.
SECTION 3.
(a) Nothing in this ordinance shall preclude an Employee of the Cook County Forest Preserve Police from
utilizing self-defense tactics which are enumerated in the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board prescribed certification for Law Enforcement.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, an Employee of the Cook County Forest Preserve Police
need not retreat or desist from efforts to make a lawful arrest because of resistance or threatened
resistance to the arrest. Any such officer or employee is justified in the use of any force which he
reasonably believes to be necessary to defend himself or another from bodily harm while making the
arrest. However, the officer or employee is justified in using force likely to cause death or great bodily
harm only when he reasonably believes that such force is necessary to prevent death or great bodily harm
to himself or such other person, or when he reasonably believes both that:
Page 27 of 28

 (1) Such force is necessary to prevent the arrest from being defeated by resistance or escape; and
(2) The person to be arrested has committed or attempted a forcible felony which involves the
infliction or threatened infliction of great bodily harm or is attempting to escape by use of a
deadly weapon, or otherwise indicates that he will endanger human life or inflict great bodily
harm unless arrested without delay.
SECTION 4. Incorporating all of the foregoing provisions, this ordinance shall be in full force and effect
upon its passage and publication.
Legislative History: 4/14/15 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred
to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

_________________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 28 of 28

 