Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

10:30AM

Wednesday, May 11, 2016

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
2. Diane Limas, Community United

16-3106
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 4/13/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

16-2692
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY YOUTH EMPLOYMENT EARNED CREDIT INCENTIVE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance, Division 6 Bid
Incentives and Preferences, Sec. 34-229 - Sec. 34-240 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

 DIVISION 6. - BID INCENTIVES AND PREFERENCES

Sec. 34-229. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Division shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Terms not defined in this section are
defined in Division 1 of this Procurement Code, or in Section 1-3 of the Cook County Code.

Apprentice means any person who: (1) is enrolled in an apprenticeship program approved by and registered
with the United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization; or (2) has
graduated within the past four (4) years from an apprenticeship program that has been approved by and registered
with the United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization.
Armed forces of the United States means the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast
Guard, or service in active duty as defined under 38 U.S.C. Section 101. Service in the Merchant Marine that
constitutes active duty under Section 401 offederal Public Act 95-202 shall also be considered service in the armed
forces for purposes of this division.
Committee means Cook County Re-entry Employment Committee.
Bid incentive means an amount deducted, for bid evaluation purposes only, from the contract base bid in
order to calculate the bid price to be used to evaluate the bid on a competitively bid project.
Contract base bid means the total dollar amount bid on a project without factoring any bid incentive or
percentage reductions to the bid amount.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying Contract
through which the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders or Apprentices.
Eligible Veteran means a person who (i) has been either a member of the armed forces of the United States
or, while a citizen of the United States, was a member of the armed forces of allies of the United States in time of
hostilities with a foreign country and (ii) has served under one or more of the following conditions: (a) the veteran
served a total of at least six months; (b) the veteran served for the duration of hostilities regardless of the length of
the engagement; ( c) the veteran was discharged on the basis of hardship; or ( d) the veteran was released from active
duty because of a service connected disability and was discharged under honorable conditions.
Former Offenders means adults who are residents of the County and who have been convicted of a crime.
Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly wage who are directly employed at the
work site. "Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and all
subcontractors working at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking foremen,
superintendents, owners and workers who are not subject to prevailing wage requirements~
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more, for which
the Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.
Service-connected disability means a disability incurred in the line of duty in the active military, naval, or
air service as described in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

Page 2of9

 Service-Disabled Veteran means an Eligible Veteran who has been found to have ten percent or more
service-connected disability by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the United States Department
of Defense.
Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (SDVBE) means a small business (i) that is at least
51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a
corporation, at least 51 percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more
Service Disabled Veterans; (ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and
procedures promulgated by the CCD.

Time of hostilities with a foreign country means any period of time in the past, present, or future during
which a declaration of war by the United States Congress has been or is in effect or during which an emergency
condition has been or is in effect that is recognized by the issuance of a Presidential proclamation or a Presidential
executive order and in which the armed forces expeditionary medal or other campaign service medals are awarded
according to Presidential executive order.
Youth means a male or female resident of Cook Countv between the ages of 16 and 19 vears of age.
Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (VEE) means a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent owned,
controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans or, in the case of a corporation, at least 51 percent or
more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans; (ii) that has its
home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated by the CCD.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)

***
Sec. 34-240 - Youth Employment Earned Credits
A contractor may qualify for Earned

red it b y hirin g youth fi r work under a Qualify in g C ntract.

(a) For any project advertised after the effective date of this ordinance havin~ estimated contract value
of $ 100.000.00 r more, and where not otherwise prohibited by federa l, state or local law, the ch ief procurement
officer halJ al locate to any qualified bidder the following bid incentive for the total labor hours performed under
contract by a youth employee.
(b) For anv project advertised after the effective date oflhis ordinance having an estimated contract value
of $ '100,000 .00 or more. and where not otherwise prohibited by federal, state r local law, the d1ief procurement
officer shall allocate to any qua lified bidder the following bid incentive for the total lab r hour performed under
contract by a youth employee.
(c) Earned Credits for total labor hours performed by youth emplovees shall be earned as follows:

PercentaPe of Total Labor Hours Performed bv Youth EmD lovees

Earned Credit

1-10%

.25% of Bid nrice

Over 10%

.50% of Bid Qrice

( d) The bid incentive is used only to calculate an amount to be used in evaluating the bid. The bid incentive
t affect the contract price.
Page 3of9

 (e) For all projects advertised after the effective date of this ordinance, the chief procurement officer shall
include the bid incentive provision in all such advertisements.
(t) As part of the contract c lose·out procedure, if the chief procurement officer determines that the bidder

has successfully met his or her youth employee utilization goals, the chief procw·ement officer shall issue an earned
credit certificate that evidences the amount of earned credits allocated to the bidder. The bidder may apply the
earned credits as the bid incentive for any future project contract bid of equal or greater dollar value.
(g) The earned credit certificate is valid for three year from the date
toward any future contract bid after the expiration of lhat period.
(h) T he bidder may apply the earned credit c rtificate on multiple future pr ject bids cluri ng the three year
period in which the certificate is valid, but may only receive one bid incentive for bid evaluation purposes on one
project contract award. If the contractor applies the earned credit certificate on multiple project bids and is the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder on more than one project bid, the earned credit certificate shall be applied
to the project first to be advertised by the Department of Procurement Serv ices, or if multiple project bid were
advertised on the same date, the earned credit certificate shall be applied only to the project with the greatest dollar
value.
(i) The contractor shall maintain accurate and detailed books and records necessary to monitor compliance
with this section and shall submit such reports as required b the chief procurement officer, or the commi ion.er f
the supervising department.
(j) Full access to the contractor's and subcontractors' records shall be granted to the chief procurement
officer. the commissioner of the using Agency or any duly authorized representati e thereof for a period of at least
three (3) years after final acceptance of the work. A Contractor shall impose this requirement by contract with any
subcontractors providing youth emp loyee under a Qualifying C ntract

(k) The chief procurement officer is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and
regulalions pe1taining to the admirli trntion and enforcement of U1is ection.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, that this Ordinance
be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

Page 4of9

 PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE ID 16-2692
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER and SEAN M. MORRISON, County Commissioners
COOK COUNTY YOUTH EMPLOYMENT EARNED CREDIT INCENTIVE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance, Division 6 Bid
Incentives and Preferences, Sec. 34-229 - Sec. 34-240 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
DIVISION 6. - BID INCENTIVES AND PREFERENCES
Sec. 34-229. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Division shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Terms not defined in this section are
defined in Division l of this Procurement Code, or in Section 1-3 of the Cook County Code.
Apprentice means any person who: (I) is enrolled in an apprenticeship program approved by and registered with
the United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization; or (2) has graduated
within the past four (4) years from an apprenticeship program that has been approved by and registered with the
United States Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization.
Armed forces of the United States means the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or
service in active duty as defined under 38 U.S.C. Section 101. Service in the Merchant Marine that constitutes active
duty under Section 401 of federal Public Act 95-202 shall also be considered service in the armed forces for
purposes of this division.
Committee means Cook County Re-entry Employment Committee.
Bid incentive means an amount deducted, for bid evaluation purposes only, from the contract base bid in order to
calculate the bid price to be used to evaluate the bid on a competitively bid project.
Contract base bid means the total dollar amount bid on a project without factoring any bid incentive or percentage
reductions to the bid amount.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying Contract through which
the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders 0f,__Apprentices or youth.
Eligible Veteran means a person who (i) has been either a member of the armed forces of the United States or, while
a citizen of the United States, was a member of the armed forces of allies of the United States in time of hostilities
with a foreign country and (ii) has served under one or more of the following conditions: (a) the veteran served a
total of at least six months; (b) the veteran served for the duration of hostilities regardless of the length of the
engagement; (c) the veteran was discharged on the basis of hardship; or ( d) the veteran was released from active
duty because of a service connected disability and was discharged under honorable conditions.
Former Offenders means adults who are residents of the County and who have been convicted of a crime.
Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly wage who are directly employed at the work site.
"Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and all subcontractors working
at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking foremen, superintendents, owners
and workers who are not subject to prevailing wage requirements~
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more, for which the
Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.
Page5of9

 Service-connected disability means a disability incurred in the line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service
as described in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).
Service-Disabled Veteran means an Eligible Veteran who has been found to have ten percent or more serviceconnected disability by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the United States Department of
Defense.
Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (SD VEE) means a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent
owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a corporation,
at least 51 percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Service Disabled
Veterans; (ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated
by the CCD.
Time of hostilities with a foreign country means any period of time in the past, present, or future during which a
declaration of war by the United States Congress has been or is in effect or during which an emergency condition
has been or is in effect that is recognized by the issuance of a Presidential proclamation or a Presidential executive
order and in which the armed forces expeditionary medal or other campaign service medals are awarded according
to Presidential executive order.
Youth means a male or female resident of Cook County between the ages of 16 and 19 years of age.
Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (VEE) means a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent owned, controlled,
and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans or, in the case of a corporation, at least 51 percent or more of the
stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans; (ii) that has its home office in
Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated by the CCD.
Sec. 34-240- Youth Employment Earned Credits

(a)
For any project advertised after the effective date of this ordinance having an estimated contract
value of $100.000.00 or more, and w here not otherwise prohibited by federal. state or local law. the chief
procurement officer shall allocate to any qualified bidder the fo llowing bid incentive for the total labor hours
performed under contract by a youth employee.
(b)
For any project advertised after the effective date of this ordinance having an estimated contract
value of $100.000.00 or more. and where not otherwi e prohibited by federal, stat or loca l law, the chief
procu rement officer shall allocate to any qualified bidder the fo llowing bid incentive for the total labor hours
performed under contract by a youth employee.
(c)

amed Credits for total labor ho urs performed by youth employees sha ll be earned as fi 11 ws:

PercentaE:e of Total Labor Hours Performed bv Youth Emo lovees
1- 10%
nver 10%

Earned Credit
.25% of Bid orice
.50% of Bid orice

(d)
The bid incentive is used only to calculate an amount to be used in evaluating the bid. The bid
incentive does not affect the contract price.
(e)
For all projects advertised after the effective date of this ordinance, the chief procurement officer
shall include the bid incentive orovision in all such advertisements.

Page 6 of9

 (Q
A · part of the contract lose-o ul proced ure, if, ba eel upon documentation provided by the bidder to
the Using Agency, the chief procurement officer determines that the bidder is entitled to an earned credit based on
the percentctge of total hours worked bv youth employees. the chief procurement officer shall issue an ea rn ed credit
certificate that evidences the amount of earned credits allocated to the bidder. The bidder may apply the earned
credits as the bid incentive for anv future project contract bid of equal or greater dollar value.

(g)
The earned credit certificate is valid for three years from the date of issuance and shall not be applied
towards any future contract bid after the expiration f that period.
(h)
Tbe bidder may apply the earned credit certificate on multiple future project bids during the three
year geriod in which the ce1iificate i valid, but may only receive one bid incenti e for bid evaluation purposes on
one project contract award. Jf the contractor applie the earned credit certificate n mulliple P-r ject bids and is the
lowest responsive and re ponsible bidder n more than one project bid, the earned credit certificate hall be app lied
t the pro ject first to be adverti ed by the Department of Procuremellt Services, or if mu ltip le pr ject bid were
adve1i ised o.n th same date. the earned credit certificate hal l be app lied nly to the project with the greate t do llar
value.

Ci)
The contractor hall maintain acc~rrate and detailed book and records neces ary to monitor
compliance with this section and shall submit such reports as required by the chief procurement officer, or the
commissioner of the supervising department.
Full access to the contractor's and subcontractors' records shall be granted to the chief procurement
officer, the commissioner of the using Agency or any duly authorized representative thereof for a period of at least
three (3) year after final acceptance of the work. A Contractor shall impose this req uirement by contract with any
subcontractors providing youth employees under a Qualifying Contract
(j)

(k)
The chief procurement officer is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this section.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

16-2483
Presented by:

MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development

PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER RECOVERY (CDBG-DR)
Department:

Planning and Development

Other Part(ies): Presidio Capital, LLC, Hinsdale, Illinois
Request: Approval of a CDBG - DR Loan with Developer and Homebuyer Subsidies
Total Development Cost: $7,000,000.00
Project Loan Amount: $7,000,000.00
Page 7of9

 Fiscal Impact: None
Account(s): NIA
Summary: The Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submits the attached Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery project loan
recommendation in the amount of $7,000,000.00 to Presidio Capital, LLC. This project loan will be utilized to
support CDBG -DR-eligible project costs incurred during the new construction of 29 new townhomes and single
family homes in Cicero, Illinois as replacement housing for households displaced by the 2013 Flood. The area of
Cicero where these homes will be built (northeast comer) is not in a 100 year flood plain, but is near transit and
meets the new energy star ratings for new construction. The construction of these units is in keeping with Planning
for Progress and the CDBG -Disaster Recovery Action Plan.

The requested CDBG -DR funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms:
Loan Type: Construction Loan will be provided to the Developer, and then the down payment assistance will be
recorded as Second Mortgage by Cook County and remain subordinate to the permanent first mortgage to the
home buyer
Interest Rate: The loan will be a zero percent (0%) interest repayable of the sale of each home to a qualified
homebuyer
Loan Term: The Project is estimated to have a "construction" phase of (12) months to complete with a detailed
schedule to be set forth in final loan documents subject to the guidance and final approval of HUD.
Lien Position: County is the sole lender and recorded in first position during construction and then Cook County
will award on a case by case needs basis a second mortgage for each homebuyer to ensure compliance with the
abovementioned Affordability Period.
Buyer Down Payment Assistance: Qualified Buyers will receive down payment assistance based upon
individual needs. Fifteen properties will be sold to Buyers with less than 80 percent of AMI and fourteen
properties will be sold to Buyers with less than 120 percent of AMI.
Affordability Period for Home Buyer: The homebuyer will be awarded a second mortgage on the property based
upon the needs of each qualified homebuyer. The second mortgage will come with an affordability period of 15
years if the subsidy is $20,000 or less and 20 years if the subsidy is $20,001 or more.
Guarantee: Presidio Capital, LLC guarantees that any home not sold by 12/31/2017 will be repaid in "balance"
(outstanding balance minus any projected developer subsidy) to the County, after the complete exhaustion of the
"sales plan" initiative. On 10/1/2017 any unsold units will be evaluated and determine the units prices need to be
decreased or if an extension beyond 12/31/2017 is necessary to sell all units. If on 12/31/2017 units still remain
unsold the County and Developer have the option to convert the units to supportive services rental housing units in
conjunction with an approved non-profit agency. Finally, any reprogrammed funds will be utilized at the sole
discretion of the County for projects that are eligible under the CDBG-DR regulations.

The Bureau would like to request approval for the attached recommended CDBG -DR project loan and
authorization to proceed to execute on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further
the aforementioned project.
The U.S . Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) provided the County with the CDBG -DR funds
due to the flooding that occurred in April of 2013. The Cook County Board has approved The Action Plan for the
CDBG - DR funds on 3/12/2014 with two Substantial Amendments on 9/10/2014 and 4/1/2015.
This project is being submitted for review by the Housing and Community Development Committee and then for
Page 8of9

 Board Approval on 5/11/2016. As such, this item will require Board review and approval in the same meeting on
5/11/2016.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Sims, to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

Respectfully submitted,

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 9 of9

 