Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Environmental Control Committee
Tuesday, July 22, 2014

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at the
date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 (dd), public testimony
will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired.
Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language
when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or
failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person
from providing future testimony.

14-3584
Presented by: JOHN COOKE, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy; SHANNON E. ANDREWS,
Chief Procurement Officer
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOHN P. DALEY, ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY
GORMAN, EDWIN REYES, PETER N. SILVESTRI, ROBERT STEELE and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook
County Board Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
THE COOK COUNTY BUILDING ENERGY BENCHMARKING ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part I, General Ordinances, Chapter 2,
Administration, Article I, In General, Section 2-8 Cook County Building Energy Benchmarking, is hereby enacted
as Follows:

 Section 2-8. Cook County Building Energy Benchmarking.
(a)

Definitions. The following terms used in this section, shall have the meanings set forth below:
Benchmarking means to track and input a building’s energy consumption data and other relevant building
information for twelve consecutive months, as required by the benchmarking tool, to quantify the
building’s energy use.
Benchmarking Tool means the website-based software, commonly known as “ENERGY STAR Portfolio
Manager,” developed and maintained by the United States Environmental Protection Agency to track and
assess the relative energy use of buildings nationwide. This term also applies to any successor system
thereto, including any change or addition made to such tool by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
Building means any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
movable property of any kind, and which is permanently affixed to the land. A fence is not a building. For
purposes of this section, a building is one that is owned and operated by or on behalf of Cook County.
Certificate of Occupancy means the certificate issued by the Zoning Administrator, Building
Commissioner, or Cook County Department of Building and Zoning allowing building occupancy or use.
Chief Sustainability Officer means the Chief Sustainability Officer or if none has been designated, the
Director of Environmental Control.
County Building means any Group 1 County building or Group 2 County building as defined by this
section. The term “County building” does not include any building with more than 10 percent occupancy
use classified as open air assembly units, storage units, or parking structures.
Director means the Director of the Cook County Office of Capital Planning and Policy.
Energy means electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, steam, or other product sold by a utility for use in a building,
or renewable on-site electricity generation, for purposes of powering or fueling end uses in a building.
Energy Manager means the Cook County Energy Manager.
Energy Performance Score means the 1 to 100 numerical score produced by the Benchmarking Tool, also
known as ENERGY STAR score, or any successor score thereto. The energy performance score assesses a
building’s energy performance relative to similar buildings, based on source energy use, operating
characteristics, and geographical location.
Group 1 County Building means any building or group of buildings owned and operated by, or on behalf of,
Cook County or for which the County regularly pays all of the annual utility bills, containing at least
250,000 gross square feet, as identified by the Director.
Group 2 County Building means any building or group of buildings owned and operated by or on behalf of
Cook County or for which the County regularly pays all of the annual utility bills, containing at least 35,000
but less than 250,000 gross square feet, as identified by the Director.
Gross Square Feet means the total number of square feet measured between the exterior surfaces of the
enclosing fixed walls of a building. The term Gross Square Feet includes vent shafts, elevator shafts, flues,
pipe shafts, vertical ducts, stairwells, light wells, basement space, mechanical or electrical rooms, and
interior parking.

Page 2 of 4

 (b) Schedule.
(1) By August 1, 2014, and by June 1st each year thereafter, the County Energy Manager shall benchmark all
Group 1 County Buildings for the previous calendar year.
(2) By June 1, 2015, and by June 1st each year thereafter, the County Energy Manager shall benchmark all
Group 2 County Buildings for the previous calendar year.
(c) Verification.
(1) The Director shall verify all benchmarking information for each building.
(2) Benchmarking information shall include at least the following:
(i) Building address;
(ii) Energy use intensity (EUI);
(iii) Annual greenhouse gas emissions; and
(iv) The Energy Performance Score that compares the energy use of the building to that of similar
buildings, where available.
(3) As of June 2016, Benchmarking shall also include Water Use data.
(d) Reporting and Disclosure.
(1) The Director and the Chief Sustainability Officer shall prepare and submit an annual report to the President
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners reviewing and evaluating energy and water efficiency in
County buildings, including the most recent reported Energy Benchmarking Information that compares the
energy and water use of the building to that of similar buildings, where available, the actual energy and
water use of each covered building, and the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the energy use. Said
report shall also list any building that the Director exempts from the benchmarking requirement with an
explanation, pursuant to subsection (e) below.
(2) The Director and the Chief Sustainability Officer are authorized to make reported benchmarking
information readily available to the public.
(e) Exemptions. The Director may exempt from the benchmarking requirement any building for which any of the
following apply:
(1) The building had average physical occupancy of less than 50 percent throughout the calendar year for which
benchmarking is required; or
(2)The building is new construction and the building’s certificate of occupancy was issued during the calendar
year for which benchmarking is required.

Page 3 of 4

 Secs. 2-89—2.40. Reserved.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage and approval.
Legislative History : 6/18/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Environmental Control Committee

___________________________________
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Gorman
Steele
Gainer, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Tobolski

Page 4 of 4

 