 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, June 6, 2017 10:45 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)
Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moody asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

17-0245
COMMITTEE 
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/9/2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to approve
17-0245. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,

Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)

 16-0384
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent

PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?the Preserves?), as
Licensor to grant a License to Willow Building, LLC., Grantee, to utilize and maintain a license to utilize
a minimum of ?ve (5) and a maximum of thirty (30) parking spaces for over?ow parking for an of?ce
building located at 1622 Willow Road, Suite 200, North?eld, IL 60093. Permission is now sought, upon
satisfactory completion of all due diligence and negotiation of any and all relevant provisions as determined
by the Preserves' legal department, to enter into and execute the License. The request is to utilize Spaces in
parking lot #1 in Erickson Woods Grove, North?eld, IL.

The Grantee is seeking use of the Spaces to comply with Ordinance Number 03?1173 of the Village of
North?eld requiring the Grantee to obtain a Special Use Permit for the use of up to an additional 30
parking spaces. Grantee agrees to indemnify the Preserves and maintain an insurance policy naming the
Preserves as an additional insured. Grantee?s access to the Parking Lot is limited to Monday through
Friday from 7:00 a.m.to 6:00 pm. The Grantee will not be granted exclusive use of the Parking Lot and it
shall continue to be available for use and bene?t of the public. Grantee also as agreed to provide an
additional $25,000 to the Preserves to facilitate improvements to the Parking Lot and to facilitate
implementation of the Preserve?s Gateway Master Plan.

Term: 11/1/2016 10/30/2026

License Fee: $3,420.00 $20,520.00 annually for a ten year period

License Application Fee: $1,000.00 (paid by Grantee in November of 2014)

YELAR Fee: $3,700.00

Tree Mitigation Fee: 

The area of the License is: up to 30 parking spaces

Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Of?cer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.

The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and has found it to be acceptable;
therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the
issuance of this license. 

District(s): 13

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 16-0384. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,

Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)
17-0138

Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Permits, Rentals, and Concessions
Vendor: Glencoe Golf Course, Glencoe, Illinois and the Village of Glencoe, Glencoe, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County to amend contract

G00d(s) or Service(s): Revenue generation relating to the use of Forest Preserve property for golf course
purposes by Glencoe Golf Course 

Original Contract Period: Continuous term from 1922

Proposed Contract Period Extension: The agreement currently has a continuous term without a
termination date. The proposed amendment includes a termination date for the agreement of 20 years
from the effective date of the amendment. In the event that ?nancing is secured by either GGC or the
Village of Glencoe to enable the construction of improvements, and the Forest Preserve receives proper
notice of this ?nancing, then the term of the agreement may be extended for up to a maximum of twelve
(1-2) years in order to facilitate the ability of the GGC or the Village of Glencoe to obtain such ?nancing.

Total Current Contract Amount Authority: 

Original Approval: 

Previous Increase(s): 

This Increase Requested: 

Estimated Fiscal Impact: Revenue generation in the amount of following: (1) one-time payment of
$50,000, and (2) annual payment in the amount that is equal to the greater of $62,500 or 3.6% of the
annual gross revenue generated by GGC from golf course operations during the immediately preceding
year. No permit or license fee, other than a special use permit fee for alcohol shall be required to be paid
by GGC to the Forest Preserve with respect to golf course operations.

Accounts: Revenue generating

Contract Number(s): 

Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Of?cer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

District(s): 13

Summary: In 1922, the Forest Preserve and GGC entered into an agreement relating to the use and
operation of certain property comprising approximately 66 acres of Forest Preserve property as part of a
public golf course to which both the Forest Preserve and the Village of Glencoe each contributed land.
The Forest Preserve renegotiated the original agreement, as re?ected in the proposed amendment, to 
revise the ?nancial consideration that GGC should pay to the Forest Preserve, and (2) establish a
termination date for the use by GGC of Forest Preserve property.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 17-0138. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)

17-0170
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent

PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?the Preserves?), as
Licensor to grant a License to Oakton Community College, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a
twelve (12) inch water main across property of the Preserves to provide a secondary feed from Golf
Road. The City of Des Plaines currently provides water by a single ten (10) inch main along Central
Road, which has recently been determined to be inadequate for ?re protection requirements.
Additionally, any break in the main results in complete disruption of water service to the College. The
new main would provide a looped water system to supply the needs for ?re protection and continued
water supply in the event of a main break. The water main will be installed underground by directional
bore in order to minimize surface impact on the Preserves. As additional consideration for the issuance of
this License, Grantee agrees to complete a Phase 1 engineering study with a budgeted value of
$70,000.00 for a trail crossing, or to provide another bene?t of equivalent value to the Preserves, subject
to the approval of the Preserves.

Term: Continuous

License Fee: $32,l07.44

License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,600.00

$36,207.44 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 

Tree Mitigation Fee: None anticipated but if trees are removed, a tree mitigation fee may be charged per
the Preserves? current Tree Mitigation Plan

. ..

The area of the License is: 0.446 acres

Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Of?cer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.

The Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.

District(s): 9 and 17

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 17-0170. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)

17-0171
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
TEMPORARY EASEMTENT AMENDMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?the Preserves?) to
amend a grant of a temporary easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation at
Winnetka Road at the Skokie River for 0.171 acres or 7,450 square feet.
Reason: IDOT plans to remove and replace the existing deck and superstructure of the Winnetka Road
Bridge over the Skokie River. Permanent and temporary easements were granted for the project in 2012.
The temporary easements expired in March 2017. As construction has not yet started, IDOT seeks a ?ve
(5) year extension on the temporary easements. 

No structures are proposed to be built on the temporary easement.

The area for the temporary easement is 0.171 acres. IDOT indicates that a minimal number of trees are
expected to be removed for this project.

Term: Five (5) years
Easement Fee: $1,200.00
Tree Mitigation Fee: Per the current Tree Mitigation Plan

Concurrence(s):

 

The Chief Financial Of?cer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

The Preserves staff has reviewed this easement extension request and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this temporary easement extension.

District(s): 13

A motion was made by Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Fritchey, to recommend
for approval 17-0171. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

?Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)

17-0172
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent

TEMPORARY EASENIENT REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?the Preserves?) to
grant a temporary easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation at Midlothian
Meadows and Oak Forest Heritage Preserves, along the west side of Pulaski/Crawford Avenue at 159th
Street for 0.557 acres or 24,276 square feet.

Reason: IDOT requests a temporary easement along the west side of Pulaski/Crawford Avenue to
construct a ten (10) foot wide paved, shared use path conneCting the south entrance of Midlothian

Meadows to the Oak Forest Heritage Preserve. IDOT originally proposed a pedestrian path on the east
side of Crawford but agreed to relocate this to the west side to connect two (2) Forest Preserve trails at
Midlothian Meadows and the Oak Forest Heritage Preserves.

IDOT will construct the path with a 20% cost share with the Preserves, estimated at $16,000.00. IDOT
has offered to pay the appraised value of the temporary easement as an easement fee but Forest Preserve
staff is recommending waiver of tree mitigation fees because the project bene?ts the Forest Preserves.
The path will be constructed as part of improvements to the intersection of US Route 6 (159th Street) and
Pulaski/Crawford Avenue. The improvements include traf?c signal replacement with bicycle and
pedestrian crossing. The temporary easement is for ?ve (5) years or until completion of construction,
Whichever comes ?rst.

The area for the temporary easement is 0.557 acres. IDOT indicates that a yet to be determined number of
trees are expected to be removed for this project.

Term: Five (5) years or until completion of construction, whichever comes ?rst.
Easement Fee: $4,600.00

Tree Mitigation Fee: Waived

Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Of?cer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

The Preserves staff have reviewed this easement request and plans and have found them to be acceptable;
therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the issuance
of this temporary easement.

District(s): 5

A motion was made by Commissioner Tobolski, seconded by Commissioner Butler, to recommend
for approval 17-0172. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Vice Chairman Moore, to adjourn. The
motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moody, Moore, Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Fritchey, Garcia, Goslin, Morrison,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Gainer and Steele (2)

Respectfully submitted,

   

 

 

Chairman i Secretary

video recording of this meeting is available at 

