Forest Preserve District of
Minutes of the Real Estate

Tuesday, Dccembcr 15, 2015

9: 15 AM

Committc~e

Cook County Iluilding, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, lllinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Garcir1, Goslin, Schneider,
Sims and Suffredin (I 0)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Butler; Fritchey, Morrison, Silvestri, Steele and
Tobolski (7)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Mur·phy asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

No Public Speakers

15-0699
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/6/2015

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissione:r Arroyo, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Garcia , Goslin. Schneider,
Sims and Suffrcdin (I 0)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Morrison, Silvestri , Steele and
Tobolski (7)

 15-0613
Prcsenkd by:

ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent

PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County ("the Preserves"), as
Licensor to grant a License to Waste Management of lllinois, Inc. ("WMJ"), Grantee, lo locate, operate and
maintnin one additional groundwater monitoring well ·along Doty Avenue al lhe Beaubien Woods Forest Preserve.
The groundwater monitoring wells <1re required by the Illinois EPA to ensure that the groundwater quality is not
affoctcd by the nearby landfills. This additional well is part ofa network to surround the existing landfill and will
monitor a groundwnter zone tlrnt is disconnected from the previously ilpproved two wells along Doty Avenue.
Term: Ten (JO) Years
License Fee:

$3,500.00

License Application Fee: $I ,000.00
YELAR I<'ee: $3,500.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $8,000.00 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-28-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is:

80 Square Feet or 0.002 Acre

Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the
issuance of this license.
District(s): 4
Legislative History 11/17/J 5 FPO Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
A motion was made by Commissioner Garcia, sero111led by Commissioner Boykin, that this License Request
be recommended for approval. The motion cnl'l'ied by the following vote:
Ayes:

Clrnirman Murphy, Com111issioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Schneicier,
Sims and Suffredin (I 0)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Morrison, Silvestri, Steele and
Tobolski (7)

Page 2 of3

 ADJOllRNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, lhaJ this meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ay<~S:

Chairman Murphy, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider,
Sims mid Suffredin (I 0)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Moore, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Morrison, Silvestri, Steele and
Tobolski (7)

Respectfully submit1ed,

*A video recording of this meeting is available at b.1.to.~LH2dc:c.legistar.c~)t)l

Page 3of3

 