Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, May 20, 2015

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 567
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an
item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-2578
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner, TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, LUIS
ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, STANLEY MOORE, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE, LARRY
SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY APPRENTICESHIPS EARNED CREDIT INCENTIVE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance, Division 6 Bid
Incentives and Preferences, Sec. 34-229 - Sec. 34-239 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
DIVISION 6. - BID INCENTIVES AND PREFERENCES
Sec. 34-229. - Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Division shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Terms not defined in this section are
defined in Division 1 of this Procurement Code, or in Section 1-3 of the Cook County Code.

 Apprentice means any person who: (1) is enrolled in an apprenticeship program approved by and registered
with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization; or (2) has
graduated within the past four (4) years from an apprenticeship program that has been approved by and registered
with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship, or its successor organization.
Armed forces of the United States means the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast
Guard, or service in active duty as defined under 38 U.S.C. Section 101. Service in the Merchant Marine that
constitutes active duty under Section 401 of federal Public Act 95-202 shall also be considered service in the armed
forces for purposes of this division.
Committee means Cook County Re-entry Employment Committee.
Bid incentive means an amount deducted, for bid evaluation purposes only, from the contract base bid in order
to calculate the bid price to be used to evaluate the bid on a competitively bid project.
Contract base bid means the total dollar amount bid on a project without factoring any bid incentive or
percentage reductions to the bid amount.
Earned Credit means the amount allocated to a Contractor upon completion of a Qualifying Contract through
which the Contractor met or exceeded the goals for the utilization of Former Offenders or Apprentices.
Eligible Veteran means a person who (i) has been either a member of the armed forces of the United States or,
while a citizen of the United States, was a member of the armed forces of allies of the United States in time of
hostilities with a foreign country and (ii) has served under one or more of the following conditions: (a) the veteran
served a total of at least six months; (b) the veteran served for the duration of hostilities regardless of the length of
the engagement; (c) the veteran was discharged on the basis of hardship; or (d) the veteran was released from active
duty because of a service connected disability and was discharged under honorable conditions.
Former Offenders means adults who are residents of the County and who have been convicted of a crime.
Labor hours means the total hours of workers receiving an hourly wage who are directly employed at the work
site. "Labor hours" shall include hours performed by workers employed by the contractor and all subcontractors
working at the work site. "Labor hours" shall not include hours worked by nonworking foremen, superintendents,
owners and workers who are not subject to prevailing wage requirements.
Qualifying Contract means a Contract for Public Works with a Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more, for which the
Contractor is eligible for Earned Credits.
Service-connected disability means a disability incurred in the line of duty in the active military, naval, or air
service as described in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).

Page 2 of 15

 Service-Disabled Veteran means an Eligible Veteran who has been found to have ten percent or more
service-connected disability by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the United States Department
of Defense.
Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (SDVBE) means a small business (i) that is at least 51
percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a
corporation, at least 51 percent or more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more
Service Disabled Veterans; (ii) that has its home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and
procedures promulgated by the CCD.
Time of hostilities with a foreign country means any period of time in the past, present, or future during which
a declaration of war by the United States Congress has been or is in effect or during which an emergency condition
has been or is in effect that is recognized by the issuance of a Presidential proclamation or a Presidential executive
order and in which the armed forces expeditionary medal or other campaign service medals are awarded according
to Presidential executive order.
Veteran-owned Business Enterprise (VBE) means a small business (i) that is at least 51 percent owned,
controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans or, in the case of a corporation, at least 51 percent or
more of the stock of which is owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans; (ii) that has its
home office in Illinois, as certified by the CCD under policies and procedures promulgated by the CCD.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-230. - Local business preference; all contracts.

The CPO shall recommend award of the Procurement to the lowest Responsible and Responsive Bidder which
is a Local Business, so long as the Bid of such Bidder does not exceed the Bid of the lowest Responsive and
Responsible Bidder by more than five percent.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-231. - Re-entry employment program established; public works contracts only.

For all Public Works Contracts with an estimated Bid Price of $100,000.00 or more, there is hereby established
the Cook County Re-entry Employment Program, with the goal of increasing public safety and reducing recidivism
by providing assistance to adults who are residents of the County and who are former offenders in finding
employment opportunities.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)

Page 3 of 15

 Sec. 34-232. - Re-entry employment committee.

(a) The President shall appoint the members of the Committee which will consist of:
(1) A representative of the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources;
(2) A representative of the Justice Advisory Council;;
(3) A representative of the Office of Contract Compliance;
(4) A representative of a nonprofit organization whose mission is to reintegrate former Offenders into
society;
(5) A representative of organized labor; and
(6) A Cook County Commissioner.
(b) The Committee shall work with appropriate organizations to identify Former Offenders for participation in this
program.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-233. - Re-entry employment plan.

A Contractor may qualify for Earned Credits by utilizing Former Offenders for work under a Qualifying
Contract. In order to so qualify, a Bidder must include in its Bid for such Qualifying Contract an employment plan
for Former Offenders by Contractor or any subcontractors. Bidders may request from the Committee a list of
candidates. If the Bidder or any subcontractor employs Former Offenders or identifies potential candidates on its
own, such candidates may be submitted to the Committee to determine if they are Former Offenders, as defined in
this division.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-234. - Re-entry employment earned credits.

(a) The CPO shall include information regarding re-entry employment Earned Credits in all advertisements for
Qualifying Contracts.
(b) Upon the completion of a Qualifying Contract, a Contractor may apply to the CPO for Earned Credits, on such
forms and including such information as required by the CPO. If the Contractor met or exceeded the Former
Offender employment goals established in the Qualifying Contract. If the CPO determines that the Contractor
has successfully met or exceeded its employment plan in the Qualifying Contract, the CPO shall issue an
Earned Credit Certificate that evidences the amount of Earned Credits calculated as set forth below. The
Page 4 of 15

 Contractor may utilize the Earned Credits as set forth in this division in a future Bid for a Contract for Public
Works of equal of greater value as the Qualifying Contract, by including a copy of the Earned Credit
Certificate with its Bid.
(c) For any Qualifying Contract, the CPO shall determine the Earned Credits, as follows. And issue an Earned
Credit Certificate, which shall be valid for three years from the date of issuance.

Percentage of Total Labor Hours Performed by Former Offenders

Earned Credit

5—10%

½% of Bid price

Over 10%

1% of Bid price

(d) For purposes of calculating the lowest Responsive and Responsible Bidder only, the CPO shall deduct from the
Bid Price the amount of Earned Credit set forth on the Earned Credit Certificate submitted by a Bidder. If the
Bidder is awarded the Contract, such Earned Credit Certificate may not be used again in a future Bid.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-235. - Re-entry employment contractor's records.

A Contractor shall retain all records supporting any Certificate of Earned Credits issued to such Contractor for
a period of at least three years after issuance of such Certificate. A Contractor shall impose this requirement by
contract with any subcontractors included in the employment plan. The Office of the CPO shall have access to the
Contractor's and such subcontractors' records.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-236. - Eligible Veterans' preference established.

(a) Veterans' Workplace Preference. The CPO shall give a preference of one percent of the amount of the Contract
to a Responsible and Responsive Contractor for a Public Works Contract when such Contractor has committed
by affidavit to utilize Eligible Veterans for at least five percent of the hours worked under such Contract.
Failure to utilize Eligible Veterans in accordance with the affidavit will result in breach of contract.
(b) Veteran-owned Business and Service Disabled Veteran-owned Business preference. The CPO shall give a
preference of five percent of the amount of the Contract to a Responsible and Responsive VBE or SDVBE.
Page 5 of 15

 The CPO shall develop procedures for implementation of this Section.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-237. - Veteran-owned businesses.

(a) It is the goal of the County to award each year not less than three percent of its total expenditures for supplies,
equipment, goods, and services to VBEs and SDVBEs. The CCD may count toward its three percent yearly
goal that portion of all Contracts in which the Contractor subcontracts with a VBE or SDVBE. Each year, the
CCD shall report to the County Board on all of the following for the immediately preceding 12-month period:
(1) The number of VBEs and SDVBEs that submitted a Bid.
(2) The number of VBEs and SDVBEs that entered into Contracts and the total value of those Contracts.
(3) Whether the County achieved the goal described in this subsection.
(b) Each year, the CCD shall review the three percent goal with input from countywide veterans' service
organizations and from the business community including VBEs and SDVBEs, and shall make
recommendations to the County Board regarding continuation, increases, or decreases in the percentage goal.
The recommendations shall be based upon the number of VBEs and SDVBEs and on the continued need to
encourage and promote businesses owned by qualified veterans.
(c) The CPO will make best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make procurements from VBEs and SDVBEs.
(d) The above-stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any person or
business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
(e) The CCD, in consultation with the Using Agency, shall establish contract specific goals for each contract. In
establishing a contract specific goal, the CCD shall consider the availability of sufficient certified VBEs and
SDVBEs for supplies, materials and equipment, or services required as part of the procurement.
(f) The provisions of this Division 6, Section 34-237(a) shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. The Contract
Compliance Director shall as soon as practicable develop and implement procedures and any corresponding
regulations for certifying and monitoring utilization of VBEs and SDVBEs .
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-238. - VBE/SDVBE Certification.

(a) The CCD shall certify a Person as a VBE when it is a small business:
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans; and
(2) That has its home office in Illinois.
Page 6 of 15

 (b) The CCD shall certify Person as a SDVBE when it is a small business:
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified service-disabled
veterans; and
(2) That has its home office in Illinois.
(c) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by other entities,
provided that Cook County's requirements are met.
(Ord. No. 14-1232, 3-12-2014.)
Sec. 34-239 – Apprenticeship Earned Credits

A contractor may qualify for Earned Credits by utilizing Apprentices for work under a Qualifying Contract. In
order to so qualify, a Bidder must include in its Bid for such Qualifying Contract a copy of the certificate approving
the apprenticeship standards and a copy of each apprentice or apprenticeship completion certificate which
corresponds to the individual in which the contractor claims credit.

(a) For any project advertised after the effective date of this ordinance having an estimated contract value of
$100,000.00 or more, and where not otherwise prohibited by federal, state or local law, the chief
procurement officer shall allocate to any qualified bidder the following bid incentive for utilization of
apprentices in performance of the total labor hours performed under contract.

(b) For any project advertised after the effective date of this ordinance having an estimated contract value of
$100,000.00 or more, and where not otherwise prohibited by federal, state or local law, the chief
procurement officer shall allocate to any qualified bidder the following bid incentive for utilization of
apprentices in performance of the total labor hours performed under contract.

(c) Earned Credits for total labor hours performed by apprentices shall be earned as follows:
Percentage of Total Labor Hours Performed by Apprentices

Earned Credit

5—10%

½% of Bid price

Over 10%

1% of Bid price

(d) The bid incentive is used only to calculate an amount to be used in evaluating the bid. The bid incentive
does not affect the contract price.
Page 7 of 15

 (e) For all projects advertised after the effective date of this ordinance, the chief procurement officer shall
include the bid incentive provision in all such advertisements.

(f) As part of the contract close-out procedure, if the chief procurement officer determines that the bidder has
successfully met his or her apprentice utilization goals, the chief procurement officer shall issue an earned
credit certificate that evidences the amount of earned credits allocated to the bidder. The bidder may apply
the earned credits as the bid incentive for any future project contract bid of equal or greater dollar value.

(g) The earned credit certificate is valid for three years from the date of issuance and shall not be applied
towards any future contract bid after the expiration of that period.

(h) The bidder may apply the earned credit certificate on multiple future project bids during the three year
period in which the certificate is valid, but may only receive one bid incentive for bid evaluation purposes
on one project contract award. If the contractor applies the earned credit certificate on multiple project
bids and is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder on more than one project bid, the earned credit
certificate shall be applied to the project first to be advertised by the Department of Procurement Services,
or if multiple project bids were advertised on the same date, the earned credit certificate shall be applied
only to the project with the greatest dollar value.

(i) The contractor shall maintain accurate and detailed books and records necessary to monitor compliance
with this section and shall submit such reports as required by the chief procurement officer, or the
commissioner of the supervising department.
(j) Full access to the contractor’s and subcontractors’ records shall be granted to the chief procurement officer,
the commissioner of the using Agency or any duly authorized representative thereof for a period of at least
three (3) years after final acceptance of the work. A Contractor shall impose this requirement by contract
with any subcontractors providing Apprentices under a Qualifying Contract

(k) The chief procurement officer is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this section.
Secs. 34-240—34-249. - Reserved.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 8 of 15

 Legislative History : 4/1/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

15-3088
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, County Commissioner, and TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY HUMAN RIGHTS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 -HUMAN RELATIONS,
ARTICLE II - HUMAN RIGHTS of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
Follows:
Sec. 42-30. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance.
Sec. 42-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning: Age means chronological age of not
less than 40 years.
Credit history means a record of an individual’s past borrowing and repaying, including information about
late payments and bankruptcy.
Credit report means any written or other communication of any information by a consumer reporting
agency that bears on a consumer’s credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, or credit history.
Credit transaction means the grant, denial, extension or termination of credit to an individual.
Disability means:
(1) A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of an
individual;
(2) A record of such an impairment; or
(3) Being regarded as having such an impairment. Excluded from this definition is an impairment relating
to the illegal use, possession or distribution of "controlled substances" as defined in schedules I through
V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. § 812).
Employee means:
(1) Any individual whether paid or unpaid, engaged in employment for an employer; or
(2) An applicant for employment.
Page 9 of 15

 Employer means:
(1) Any person employing one or more employees, or seeking to employ one or more employees
a. If the person has its principal place of business within Cook County; or
b. Does business within Cook County.

(2) The term "employer" does not mean:
a. The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by the government of the
United States;
b. An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
c. The government of the State or any agency or department thereof; or
d. The government of any municipality in Cook County.
Employment means the performance of services for an employer:
(1) For remuneration;
(2) As a volunteer; or
(3) As a participant in a training or apprenticeship program.
Employment agency means a person that undertakes to procure employees or opportunities to work for
potential employees, through interviews, referrals, or advertising, or any combination thereof.
Gender identity means the actual or perceived appearance, expression, identity, or behavior of a person as
being male or female, whether or not that appearance, expression, identity or behavior is different from that
traditionally associated with the person's designated sex at birth.
Housing status means the type of housing in which an individual resides, whether publicly or privately
owned; an individual's ownership status with respect to the individual's residence; or the status of having or not
having a fixed residence.
Labor organization includes any organization, labor union, or craft union, or any voluntary incorporated
association designed to further the cause of the rights of union labor, which is constituted for the purpose, in whole
or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with an employer concerning grievances, terms or conditions of
employment, or apprenticeships or applications for apprenticeships, or of other mutual aid or protection in
connection with employment, including apprenticeships or applications for apprenticeships.
Marital status means the status of being single, married, divorced, separated, or widowed.
Military discharge status means the fact of having been discharged from the Armed Forces of the United
States, their Reserve components or any National Guard or Naval Militia other than by a "dishonorable discharge."
Page 10 of 15

 National origin means the place in which an individual or one of such individual's ancestors was born.
Parental status means the status of living with one or more dependent minors or disabled children.
Person means one or more individuals; partnerships, associations, or organizations; labor organizations,
labor unions, joint apprenticeship committees, or union labor associations; corporations; recipients of County
funds; legal representatives, trusts, trustees in bankruptcy, or receivers; state governments other than that of Illinois;
or commercial operations or entities controlled by governments other than those of Illinois, or of the United States.
Public accommodation means a person, place, business establishment, or agency that sells, leases,
provides, or offers any product, facility, or service to the general public in Cook County, regardless of ownership or
operation:
(1) By a public body or agency;
(2) For or without regard to profit; or
(3) For a fee or not for a fee.
The term "public accommodation" also means an institution, club, association, or other place of
accommodation in Cook County, whether or not open to the general public, that has more than 400 members and
provides regular meal service and regularly receives payment for dues, fees, accommodations, facilities, or services
from or on behalf of nonmembers for the furtherance of trade or business. "Public accommodation" also means any
products, facilities, or services of a nonpublic accommodation that are made available in Cook County to the
general public or to the customers or patrons of another establishment that is a public accommodation.
Religion means all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well as belief, or the actual
identification with or perceived identification with a religion.
Sexual orientation means the status or expression, whether actual or perceived, of heterosexuality,
homosexuality, or bisexuality.
Source of income means the lawful manner by which an individual supports himself or herself and his or
her dependents.
Unlawful discrimination means discrimination against a person because of the actual or perceived status,
practice, or expression of that person's race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual
orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity or housing
status; or the actual or perceived association with such a person.
***
Sec. 42-35. - Employment.
(a) Coverage. The prohibitions against unlawful discrimination contained in this section apply as follows:
(1) To employment that is or would be in whole or in part in the County; or
(2) When the act of unlawful employment discrimination as described in this section takes place
in the County.

Page 11 of 15

 (b) Prohibitions.
(1) Employment. No employer shall directly or indirectly discriminate against any individual in
hiring, classification, grading, recruitment, discharge, discipline, compensation, selection for training
and apprenticeship, or other term, privilege, or condition of employment on the basis of unlawful
discrimination.
(2) Employment agency. No employment agency shall directly or indirectly discriminate against
any individual in hiring, classification, grading, recruitment, discharge, discipline, compensation,
selection for training and apprenticeship, or other term, privilege, or condition of employment on the
basis of unlawful discrimination. No employment agency shall publish or cause to be published, in
print or on the internet, an advertisement for, or other posting of, any job opportunity which states any
other preference, limitation, or discrimination prohibited by this ordinance.
(3) Labor organizations. No labor organization shall limit, segregate, or classify its membership,
or limit employment opportunities, selection, and training for apprenticeship in any trade or craft, or
otherwise take, or fail to take, any action which affects adversely any individual's status as an
employee, or as an apprentice, or as an applicant for apprenticeships, or wages, tenure, hours of
employment, or apprenticeship conditions, on the basis of unlawful discrimination.
(c) Exceptions. The prohibitions contained in section 42-35(b) shall not apply to any of the following:
(1) BFOQ. Hiring or selecting between individuals for bona fide occupational qualifications.
(2) Military discharge status. Use of an individual's unfavorable discharge from military service as a valid
employment criterion where:
a. Authorized by Federal law or regulation;
b. Where the affected position of employment involves the exercise of fiduciary responsibilities and
the reasons for the unfavorable discharge relate to the individual's fiduciary capacity; or
c. Where the reasons for the unfavorable discharge specifically relate to criteria which constitute a
bona fide occupational qualification for a particular job.
(3) Veterans. Giving preferential treatment to veterans and their relatives as required by Federal or State
law or regulation.
(4) Religion. Giving preference in employment by a religious corporation, association, educational
institution, or society to individuals of a particular religion to help carry out the religious activities of
such corporation, association, educational institution or society.
(d) Religious accommodation.
(1) No employer shall refuse to make all reasonable efforts to accommodate the religious beliefs,
observances, and practices of employees or prospective employees unless the employer demonstrates
that the employer is unable to reasonably accommodate an employee's or prospective employee's
religious observance or practice without undue hardship on the conduct of the employer's business.
(2) Reasonable efforts to accommodate include, but are not limited to, allowing an employee:

Page 12 of 15

 a. To take a day of paid leave or vacation, where applicable under the employee's employment
agreement;
b. To be excused from work without pay and without discipline or other penalty; or
c. To elect to take the day off with pay in order to practice the employee's religious beliefs, and to
make up the lost work time at a time and date consistent with the operational needs of the
employer's business. Any employee who elects such deferred work shall be compensated at the
employee's regular rate of pay, regardless of the time and date at which the work is made up. The
employer may require that any employee who plans to exercise this option provide the employer
with notice of the employee's intention to do so, no less than five days prior to the date of absence.
(e) Sexual harassment.
(1) No employer, employee, agent of an employer, employment agency, or labor organization (hereinafter
referred to collectively in this section as "employer") shall engage in sexual harassment.
(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual advance,
request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when:
a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of an individual's
employment;
b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for any employment
decision affecting the individual; or
c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's work
performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.
An employer is responsible for its acts and those of its agents and supervisory employees with respect to sexual
harassment regardless of whether the specific acts complained of were authorized or even forbidden by the
employer and regardless of whether the employer knew or should have known of their occurrence. An employer is
responsible for acts of sexual harassment between co-employees in the workplace where the employer (or its agents
or supervisory employees) knew or should have known of the conduct, unless it can show that it took immediate and
appropriate corrective action. An employer may also be responsible for the acts of nonemployees, with respect to
sexual harassment of employees in the workplace, where the employer (or its agents or supervisory employees)
knew or should have known of the conduct and failed to take immediate and appropriate corrective action.
(f) National origin. No employer may discriminate based on national origin under the guise of discrimination
based on an individual's foreign education or training. Nothing in this article shall be construed to conflict with
Federal or State licensing or certification requirements.
(g) Credit History.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in section 42-35(g), no employer, agent of an employer or
employment agency shall do any of the following:
a. Fire or refuse to hire or recruit, discharge, or otherwise discriminate against an individual
with respect to employment, classification, grading, discipline, selection for training and
apprenticeship, compensation, or other term, condition, or privilege of employment
because of the individual’s credit history or credit report.
Page 13 of 15

 b. Inquire about an employee’s credit history.
c. Order or obtain an employee’s credit report from a consumer reporting agency.
(2) The prohibitions contained in section 42-35(g)(1) shall not prevent an inquiry or employment
action if a satisfactory credit history is an established bona fide occupational requirement of a
particular position or a particular group of employees. A satisfactory credit history is not a bona
fide occupational requirement unless at least one of the following circumstances is present:
a. State or federal law requires bonding or other security covering an individual holding the
position.
b. The duties of the position include custody of or unsupervised access to cash or marketable
assets valued at $2,500 or more. For the purpose of this exception (b), “marketable assets”
means company property that is specifically safeguarded from the public and to which
access is only entrusted to managers and other select employees. “Marketable assets” do
not include the fixtures, furnishings, or equipment of an employer.
c. The duties of the position include signatory power over business assets of $100 or more per
transaction.
d. The position is a managerial position which involves setting the direction or control of the
business.
e. The position involves access to personal or confidential information, financial information,
trade secrets, or state or national security information. For the purposes of this exception,
the following definitions apply:
i.

Personal or confidential information means sensitive information that an
employee, customer, client, or service recipient gives explicit authorization for
another person to obtain, process, and keep; that an organization entrusts only
to managers and a select few employees; or that is stored in secure repositories
not accessible by the public or non-designated employees.

ii.

Financial information means non-public information on the overall financial
direction of an organization, including, but not limited to, company taxes or
financial reports.

iii. Trade secrets mean sensitive information regarding a company’s overall
strategy or business plans. This does not include general proprietary
information such as handbooks, policies or general business strategies.
iv.

State or national security information means information only offered to
select employees because it may jeopardize the security of the state or the
nation if it were entrusted to the general public.

f. The position meets criteria in administrative rules, if any, that the U.S. Department of
Labor or the Illinois Department of Labor has promulgated to establish the circumstances
in which a satisfactory credit history is a bone fide occupational requirement.

Page 14 of 15

 g. The employee’s credit history is otherwise required by or exempt under other applicable
law.
(3) The prohibitions contained in section 42-35(g)(1) shall not apply to any of the following:
a. Any bank holding company, financial holding company, bank, savings bank, savings and
loan association, credit union, or trust company, or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof,
which is authorized to do business under the laws of Illinois or of the United States.
b. Any company authorized to engage in any kind of insurance or surety business pursuant to
the Illinois Insurance Code, including any employee, agent, or employee of an agent acting
on behalf of a company engaged in the insurance or surety business.
c. Any municipal law enforcement, investigative unit or municipal agency which requires use
of the employee’s credit history or credit report including without limitation the Chief
Judge, the Cook County Independent Inspector General, the Cook County Auditor, the
Cook County Sheriff and the Cook County State’s Attorney.
d. Any entity that is defined as a debt collector under federal or state statue or county
ordinance.
(4) Nothing in section 42-35(g) shall prohibit employers from conducting a thorough background
investigation, which may include obtaining a report without information on credit history or an
investigative report without information on credit history, or both, as permitted under the Fair
Credit Reporting Act.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History : 4/29/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

______________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Gainer
Boykin
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 15 of 15

 