 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Finance Subcommittee on Litigation

Tuesday, October 1, 2013 11:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to discuss the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 public
testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the
Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance
of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony
shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to
act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the
time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing
future testimony.

FJ Kerrigan v. JSL Masonry

William Burruss, et al. v. Sheriff

Michael Shakman, et al, v. Cook County

Capra v. Cook County, et al.

Satkar v. Cook County, et al.

Satkar, et al., v. Cook County Board of Review, et al.
Gwendolyn Bell v. Cook County

James Degorski v. Cook County Sheri?f et al.

USA v. Cook County, et al.
Hernandez v. Cook County Sheri??s Dept, et al.
Blanchard v. Berrios

3 2453 6
SUBSTITUTE PROPOSED ORDINANCE

Sponsored by
PETER SILVESTERI AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING GUIDELINES FOR SPECIAL 
ATTORNEYS 

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that Chapter 2 Administration, Article IV, Of?cers and Employees, Division 9, State?s
Attorney, Subdivision 2, Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys er?cher

Get-meet?Attemeye, Section 2?331-336 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as
follows:

Subdivision 2. Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys and?Other
Section 2-331.

a) Short Title. This subdivision shall be known and may be cited as the Cook
County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorneys and?Qdmr?EentmeH?iHei-Heysr

b) Purpose. In the event that the Cook County State?s Attorney is sick, absent,
unable to attend to a case or has an interest in a case, a Special State?s Attorney
can be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-
9008. The appointment of any Special State?s Attorney 1s considered temporary
and limited 1n scope to the instant matter before the appointing court. Ilia?limited

 

c) De?nitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Appointed Attorney 1s an attorney whe?has?been appointed by a court of

competent jurisdiction eI?appeiated?by?the e-?eek?en?icy?aate?s?Attemeye
pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3- 9008 and who has fully complied with the Notice

Provision contained in Sec. 2-332 of this ordinance.

 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 2 of 9 Printed on 9-25?2013

Litigation Subcommittee or ?subcommittee means the Finance
Subcommittee on Litigation of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee or ?Chair means the chairperson of
the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

Case Summary means the report prepared by the 
Attorney and submitted to the Litigation Subcommittee that updates the

Litigation Subcommittee on the progress and status of the case assigned to
the _Appointed Attorney oiLGontFae-iAtionieye

Case Management means the regular documentation of the Amieiated?er
Gontraet?Attorneys? work on an individual case, including but not limited to
a Case Budget (if applicable), Case Summary, modi?cations and Quarterly
Status Reports.

Case Budget means the estimate of legal
fees and expenses through the time of judgment or other completion
including costs associated with the use of third-party vendors.

Modification of Approved Case Summary means the required report made
within ?ve (5) business days to the Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee of
any major deviations to the budget that would signi?cantly expand the
planned activities set forth in the Case Summary.

Quarterly Status Reports means the written reports that update the status of
the case, made in writing and submitted to the Chair of the Subcommittee
on Litigation at least four times annually.

Applicability. This Ordinance shall apply to all Attorneys+ appointed as Cook
County Special State?s Attorneys by a court of competent jurisdiction, pursuant to
55 ILCS 5/3 -9008 to represent the county or a county of?ce. of?cer. board.
commission. employee and/or agent.

 

 

Ed) (elAll attorneys who represent a Cook County party in multiple litigation
matters as an Appointed must comply fully

with the terms of this ordinance for each separate matter of representation.

N0 attorney may ?le an appearance in a lawsuit on behalf of an elected of?cial
o't?Cook County or County Of?ce unless they are appointed as a Special State};
Attorney by a court of competent iurisdiction or have been authorized by the Of?ce
of the Cook County State?s_Attomey to ?le an appearance.

 

 

 

Sec. 2-332. Notice.

a} Notices ot'a motion seekinga Special State?s Attorney
appointment shall be provided at least forty-eight {43) hours in advance to Cook

 

 

 

Attorney appointlneijt shall also he provided at least [tw? eiglit [48! II

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 3 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

advancemnt?the motion being heard to the [Illi_e_t'_ol' the Civil Actions Bureau, the
Chair of the Litigation Subcommittee and the President of the Countsr Board.
Within forty-eight (48) hours of appointment by a court of competent
jurisdiction, all Appointed Attorneys shall provide written notice to the Chair,
the President of the County Board and the Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of
the Cook County State?s Attorney?s Of?ce of their appointment by the a Gcourt
of competent iurisdiction. The Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau shall send a

 

 

 

 

copy of this ordinance to each Appointed?Attorney and advise them of the
County?s request that they comply with the Cook County Guidelines for Special

State?s Attorneys 

 

Sec. 2-333. Case Management.

a) Case Management. Each Appointed Attorney has ?led an
appearance on behalf of Cook County:

1) Shall submit a Case Budget and a Case Summary to the County Board through
its Litigation Subcommittee within 30 days of thei_r Speeial?State-s?Attemeyis
Appointment or as soon thereafter as the Subcommittee meets. This information
and other communications between the Appointed-Attorney eFGentraet
Attorney and the Board or Subcommittee shall constitute privileged and
con?dential attomey?client communications, unless there is a con?ict of
interests in disclosing that information or communication between the
represented party and the Cook County Board of Commissioners;

 

 

 

2)4?)Shall include in the Case Summary the major activities anticipated for the
successful defense or prosecution of the case. The Case Summary shall also
include estimates of potential liability, whether the case is appropriate for
settlement, and the assessment of the probable outcome of litigation; and

QSAShall report any modi?cations or deviations to the initial Case Summary in
quarterly reports to the Chair.

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 4 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

b) Review and Approval of Case Summary and Budget. The Subcommittee shall
review and approve the Case Summary and Budget. The Appointed Attorney or
is not prohibited from initiating legal activities reasonably
necessary to adequately protect the legal interests of their client prior to the
Committee?s approval of the Case Summary and Budget. Special State?s Attorneys
appointed in criminal matters shall not be required to submit a Case Summary to
the Litigation Subcommittee.

 

?190) Estimated Case Budget. The budget shall include an estimate of legal fees and
expenses through the time of judgment or other completion and shall allocate the
fees and expenses associated with each phase. Should the court determine that an
expansion of the representation is necessary that substantially increases the Case
budget, the Attorney shall inform the Chair who may provide the court with
information on the ?naneial impact of that expansion on the County, pursuant to
55 ILCS 5/3-9008.

QdZRejection of Attorneys who have Filed an Appearance on Behalf of Cook
County in Federal or Circuit Court without Being Appointed as a Special State?s
Attorney by a Court w?hem?appomted?lamtew At any time, the
Litigation Subcommittee may reject the representation of any attorney who has not
been appointed as a Special State?s Attorney Upon
rejection, the Litigation Subcommittee may ask the State?s Attorney to provide
representation or petition the respective court to appoint an appropriate attorney.
The Litigation Subcommittee may also reject any Attorney from providing
representation if thev have failed to comply with the Cook County Guidelines For
Special State?s Attorneys in previous representations ot'Coolt County patties.

Sec. 2-334. Fees, Expenses, Rates and Fee Petitions

a) Fees and Expenses. Attorneys shall be paid
reasonable fees and costs based on the type and nature of the case. Such fees and
costs shall conform to the fees and costs authorized under this section. The
must pay for all expenses in advance
unless otherwise expressly directed by the court or agreed to in writing by the
Litigation Subcommittee. Reimbursement of expenses shall be requested as part Attorney?s fee

 

petitions. Expenses shall be reimbursed as follows.

1) Photocopying. Reasonable photocopying at actual cost, not to
exceed 10 cents per page.

2) Messenger Service. The use of messengers when there is a
genuine need for expedited delivery?at actual charges of a third-
party vendor or, when an in-house ?rm messenger is used, at
actual cost.

3) Computerized Research. Actual costs of reasonably necessary

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 5 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

computerized research services.

4) Experts. The reasonable fees of quali?ed consulting and
testifying experts retained to provide opinions necessary to the
defense or prosecution of the litigation.

5) Travel. Air travel expenses must not exceed the highest fare
coach rate for the ?ight. Mileage expenses shall be at the Internal
Revenue Service deductible rates. Hotels, car rental companies
and airlines offering moderate prices and discounted corporate
rates shall be used. shall
reduce the hourly rate charged by 50 percent while an attorney or
paraprofessional is traveling, unless legal work in being
performed and is documented.

b) General Business Costs. Law ?rm overhead expenses including, but not limited to,
rent, electricity, supplies, secretarial and support services, computer system
expenses, overtime expenses, local telephone service and other similar expenses,
shall be considered part of the Appmuted?aad?Genueet Attorneys? hourly rate.

(0) A/Iiscellaneous Costs. Boih?Apminted?and?Geamaet Attorneys shall not seek
reimbursement of fees for:

preparing a fee petition;
conducting a con?icts check;
entertainment expenses;
excessive staf?ng;

work resulting from Appointed-6W Attorney error;

preparing an estimated case budget.



ApWed?and??enhaet Attorneys? appearances and depositions shall, under most
circumstances, be based on the work of a single attorney.

Fee Petitions. Unless otherwise expressly directed by the court, Appointed
Attemeys-m??Cen?aet Attorneys shall submit fee petitions quarterly. If the
accumulated charges for a quarter are less than $500.00, the charges shall be
included in the next quarterly fee petition. Appoi-ated?and?Qeatrac?t Attorneys shall
submit all fee petitions to the Chair in a time appropriate for referral to and review
by the Subcommittee prior to ?ling the fee petition with the court. The time spent
performing the chargeable services shall be recorded on a daily basis to the nearest
1/ 10th of an hour and shall be broken down in detail, describing the work performed
by each individual during that time period. The fee petition shall contain the
amount charged for each attorney and paraprofessional, including the time, the
hourly rate and summary total for each. The fee petition shall itemize expenses
according to categories including the following: photocopying, messenger service,
computerized research, experts and travel.

Rate Structure. Unless otherwise expressly directed by the court or the
Subcommittee, Appemted?Attoraeys?and?Gei?aet Attorneys shall bill for their
services on an hourly basis and in accordance with the Fee Schedule set forth
below, as approved and amended from time to time by the Board. The Fee Schedule
shall establish the maximum hourly charges payable for the type of service
provided. Attorneys may propose alternative fee

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 6 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

structures such as blended, ?at or contingent rate upon approval of the
subcommittee.

Fee schedule

 

Partner Hourly Rate $170.00 - T8500
Associate Hourly Rate $140.00 155 .00

 

 

Paralegal/Law Clerk Hourly $65.00
Rate

 

 

 

 

Sec. 2-335. Litigation resolution

a) Alternative Dispute Resolution. If an Appointed Attorney believes that alternative
dispute resolution is appropriate to resolve a matter, that Appointed Attorney shall
bring a proposal recommending such action to the Litigation Subcommittee for its
consideration and approval.

b) Settlement. Appointed Attorneys shall communicate all settlement proposals to the
Subcommittee in a timely manner. Appointed Attorneys shall provide a written
settlement analysis and recommendation to the Litigation Subcommittee and shall
be prepared to present that recommendation at a meeting of the Subcommittee.

0) Permission to Try. Appointed Attorneys shall obtain the approval of the Litigation
Subcommittee prior to taking a matter to trial. When an Appointed Attorney
recommends that a civil matter proceed to trial, that attorney shall provide a revised
Case Summary and recommendation to the Litigation Subcommittee. That attorney
shall be prepared to present that recommendation at a meeting of the Subcommittee.
Prior to seeking the authority to bring a matter to trial. Attorneys must present a
revised case budget with the estimated cost of the potential trial to the Litigation
Subcommittee for approval.

(1) Appeals. Appointed Attorneys must notify the Chair of any ?nal and appealable
ruling in civil matters within seventy-two (72) hours of the ruling. If an appeal may
result in the imposition of accrued interest upon the County, the Appointed
Attorney must obtain authorization from the Litigation Subcommittee before
pursuing the appeal. However, Appointed?Attorneys shall take all steps necessary to
protect the interests and preserve the appeal rights of the parties they represent
pending a decision to appeal, including the ?ling of appropriate post-trial motions
or a notice of appeal when necessary. The decision to appeal must be approved by
the Subcommittee on Litigation.

Section 2-336 Con?icts of interest

a) Modification of Guidelines. There may be circumstances in which the Cook County
Guidelines for Appointment of Special State?s Attorneys and-GthenGontraet
Attorneys requires modi?cation. The Litigation Subcommittee shall examine these
situations on a case- -b-y -case basis and shall modify the Cook County Guidelines for
Special State? 5 Attorneys and?Qtliei?{connaet?Attoineys accordingly for the course
of that representation. In unusual circumstances in which an AppointedAttomey-or
a?Gontraet Attorney believes that strict compliance with the Cook County
Guidelines for Special State? Attorneys and?QHieFC?oiittaet?Attoineys would

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 7 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

 

interfere with the exercise of their professional judgment or otherwise violate their
professional responsibilities, they shall seek appropriate guidance from
the court. Pending the receipt of such guidance, they shall be relieved of the
obligation to comply with the Cook County Guidelines for Special State?s Attorney

maid?WW, but only to the extent necessary to avoid the
perceived problems that prompted the request for guidance.

b) Con?icts Check. Before accepting a court appointment, when applicable, or before

rendering any services, Attorneys must conduct

a con?ict of 1nterest review and provide the Litigation Subcommittee with a written
list of all actual or potential con?icts of interest and matters that may present the
appearance of a con?ict.

c) Timely noti?cation. Attorneys must provide

the Chair a written notice of any actual or potential con?icts or the appearance of a
con?ict within ?ve (5) days of learning of the con?ict.

d) Waiver: Amm?ed?A?emwnd?Emmet Attorneys must be free of any conflict
of interest under the rules of professional conduct unless the con?ict is waived by
the Litigation Subcommittee and the party represented by the Appemtedeu?Ele?tmet

Attorney.

Sec. 2-336. Penalties

If an AppehH-ed?GFGeH-Waet Attorney fails to comply with Sections 2-331
through 2-335, the Litigation Subcommittee may delay or deny the payment of
any accrued or future fees and costs for the matter of representation.

An attorney who ?les an appearance without being appointed as a Special
State?s Attorney by a court ee?theState??s?Attemey shall not be paid for any time
or costs accrued prior to their appointment by a
court or the State? Attorney. 

 

Effective date. This ordinance takes effect immediately upon passage.

*Deferred at the Finance Subcommittee on Litigation Meeting of 9-9-13 as
Substituted.

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 8 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

 SUBCOMMITTEE ROUTINELY MEETS IN EXECUTIVE SESSION.

 

 

Chairman: Silvestri
Vice-Chairman: Fritchey
Members: Collins, Gainer, Schneider, Suffredin, Tobolski

Board of Commissioners of Cook County Page 9 of 9 Printed on 9-25-2013

