AGENDA
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
JANUARY t2,20tt
11:00 A.M.
CITY COI]NCIL CHAMBER

CITY COUNCIL
A proposed resolution urgng the United States Justice Department to pursue any and all
legal rernedies against Julian Assange and all others associated with the publication of
secret govemmental communications on rü/ikil.eaks.

OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
A communication recommending the proposed appoinfnent of Darci M. O'Corurell as a
member of special service Area Number 29, the west Town commission.
A communication recommending the proposed appointment of John H. paige
member of Special service Area Number 33, the wicker park and Bucktowi

as a

Commission.

A communication recommending the proposed appoinfinent of Samuel S. Marts
member of special Service Area Number 33, the wicker park and Bucktown

as a

Commission.

A communication recommending the proposed re-appointrnent of Laura A. Weathered
a member of Special service Area Number 33, the wicker park
and Bucktown

as

Commission.

A communication recommending

a proposed ordinance concerning the authority to enter
into and execute an Intergovernmental Ãgreement with the Chicago
Transit Authority
regarding the Cermak/Chinatown Station.

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
A communication transmitting

a

list of cases in which judgments or settlements were

entered into for the month ofNovember, 2010.

A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the authoritv to enter
into and execute an Intergovernmental AgreemenHüilfiftådlfta* p*L pistriót for the
redevelopment of Kiwanis Park.
li.  I lfl :i}lJJ0-

:t Hd t-

18
þi*

I

'l1iifl I

I

HYI ll0¿

Í-ìl{lìÜf

tlil¡1li33S

Å11 3

 A communication recommending a proposed ordinance concerning the authority to enter
into and execute an amended lntergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago park
District for the redevelopment of Ping Tom Memorial park, park Number +1t.

MISCELLANEOUS

10.

I

l.

Twenty-one (21) proposed ordinances concerning the issuance of all necessary permits
free ofcharge.

Five (5) proposed orders concerning the waiver of a special event raffle license fee.

one (l) proposed order concerning the cancellation of warrants for
collection for inspection, installation and permit fees.
t2.

Refrigeration Inspection Fee (l)

13.

Three (3) proposed orders conceming the cancellation of compensation fees for grants
of
privilege for the use of the public way.

14.

One (l) proposed order conceming the cancellation of compensation fees for grants
privilege for the use of the public way.

15.

Four (4) proposed ordinances conceming the cancellation of water/sewer rates.

16.

one (l) proposed order authonzingone (l) application for city of chicago
Charitable Solicitation (Tag Day) permits.

A.

of

BrightStar of Chicago
January 16,20Il

Citywide

17.

Two (2) orders authorizing the payment of hospital and medical expenses
of police
Officers and Fire Fighters injured in the line of duty.

18.

A proposed order authorizing the payment of various small claims against the City
Chicago.

19.

of

A proposed order denying the payment of various small claims against the City of
Chicago.

20.

A proposed order authorizing the payment of various Condominium Refuse Rebate
claims against the City of Chicago.

21.

A proposed order denying the payment of various Condominium Refuse Rebate claims
against the City of Chicago.

22.

A proposed order auttrorizing the payment of senior citizen rebate scwer claims.

 