Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Technology and Innovation Committee
Tuesday, June 6, 2017

12:30 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-3637
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/9/2017
17-2561
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 1st Quarter of 2017

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 6, 2017

Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated
Cook County Criminal Justice System.
Legislative History : 4/12/17 Board of Commissioners refer to the Technology and Innovation Committee
Legislative History : 5/9/17 Technology and Innovation Committee recommend for deferral
Legislative History : 5/10/17 Board of Commissioners defer

17-3149
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY INFORMATION SECURITY ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article XII, Cook County Information Security, Sec. 2-967 of the Cook County Code be hereby amended
as follows:
Sec. 2-967. - Reporting.

(a) At least once each calendar year, the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) shall report to
the Information Security Working Group on the Information Security Framework.
(b) At a minimum, the Chief Information Security Officer's (CISO's) annual report shall detail:
(1) The status of all Agencies' adoption and compliance with the Information Security Framework;
and
(2) A summary of all advice and recommendations of each Agency regarding their unique
considerations. Based on information provided by the Information Security Working Group, the
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) may modify his or her annual report.
(c) The Chief Information Security Officer (CIOCISO) shall present the Chief Information Security
Officer's (CISO's) annual report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners following the presentation
of that report to the Information Security Working Group.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History : 5/10/17 Board of Commissioners refer to the Technology and Innovation Committee

Page 2 of 3

 Technology and Innovation
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 6, 2017

17-3187
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Director, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
REPORT
Department: Office of Enterprise Resource Planning
Report Title: ERP Quarterly Project Status Report
Report Period: 2nd Quarter 2017
Summary:

The Director of ERP will provide a comprehensive update to the Board of Commissioners

via the Technology Committee on the status of all ongoing ERP projects. The status update will reflect
progress being made toward achieving the goals of selecting and implementing a Countywide Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) platform, configure and installing a Bio Metric based Time and Attendance
system, and upgrading and migrating the JDEdwards HR/Payroll system to a cloud hosting environment.
Refer to Technology Committee
Legislative History : 5/10/17 Board of Commissioners refer to the Technology and Innovation Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Fritchey
Vice-Chairman: Morrison
Members:
Butler, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele

Page 3 of 3

 