BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA

for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, March 2, 2016, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver testimony
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3) minutes.
The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of
Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
COMMISSIONERS

16-1895
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
A PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT TO THE PROPERTY TAX CLASSIFICATION
SYTEM FOR ASSESSMENT
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
- Taxation, Article II. Real Property Taxation, Division 2- Classification System for Assessment Section
74-63(7) be amended as follows:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment classes.
Real estate is divided into the following assessment classes:
***
(7) Class 6b. Real estate used primarily for industrial purposes, consisting of all newly constructed
buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings and other
structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to
their value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation. Land qualifies when the
rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the improvements. The amount of
land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the square footage added by the
rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on the parcel.
a. An applicant must obtain from the municipality in which the real estate is located or the
County Board if the real estate is located in an unincorporated area, an Ordinance or
Resolution expressly stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has
determined that the incentive provided by Class 6b is necessary for development to occur
on that specific real estate and that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be,
Page 2 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

supports and consents to the Class 6b application to the Assessor. A certified copy of the
Ordinance or Resolution need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility
application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an
assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not
filed at the time of the eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a
letter from the municipality or the County, as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution
or Ordinance supporting the incentive has been requested.
b. A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.
c. Class 6b applications for newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated buildings and other
structures must be made to the Assessor within one (1) year prior to the commencement of
such new construction or substantial rehabilitation to qualify for a Class 6b incentive. With
respect to abandoned property, the Class 6b application must be made to the Assessor prior
to the commencement of the reoccupation of the vacant and unused property.
d. In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still
determine that special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purpose of Class 6b, unless:
1. There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or
2. There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.
The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application. If the
Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate
such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution
to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the
required finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that
the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b and provide a County Resolution to that
effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well as a
certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 6b eligibility
application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment
appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class
6b eligibility application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or the
County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has
been requested.
Page 3 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the municipality or
the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special circumstances justify finding that
the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of a Class 6b under the TEERM Program if there has been
no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12
continuous months. The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances,
shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 6b application
under the TEERM Program. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes
of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the
municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and present such
municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to
whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b
and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that
special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such
a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of
filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date
an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the
time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality
or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special
circumstances has been requested.
Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program: In the instance where real estate does not meet the
definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may
be, may still determine that special circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for
purpose of Class 6b under the SER Program if:
1. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program; and
2. The industrial enterprise that occupies the premises submits evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the
industrial enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff,
and that without such designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically
viable causing the property to be in imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and.
3.The applicant is not receiving another Cook County property tax incentive for the same
property.
The finding that a property is qualified, along with the specification of the special circumstances,
and a determination that the applicant's participation in the SER Program is necessary for the industrial
enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that without such
designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to be in
imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting
and consenting to the Class 6b application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the
approval of the County Board is required to validate such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified"
for purposes of Class 6b, and a County Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain
Page 4 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and present such
municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to
whether it will validate such a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b and
provide a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that
special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such
a finding that the property is deemed "qualified" for purposes of Class 6b need not be filed at the time of
filing the Class 6b application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date
an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 6b. If the Resolution is not filed at the
time of the Class 6b application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality
or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special
circumstances has been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program or SER Program under a Class 6b application must be
received by the Assessor's Office on or before November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.
The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of annual reports by recipients of Class 6b
incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program as to the use of the property and the number of persons
employed at the Class 6b site. In such reports, recipients shall be required to certify whether the industrial
enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application continues its operations at that
location. In addition, recipients of Class 6b incentives granted pursuant to the SER Program shall be
required to report to the Assessor within 30 days if the industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at
the time of the SER application ceases operations at that location. A copy of such reports will be forwarded
by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County
Board from the affected districts. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the Assessor's
rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing. Additionally, if the
industrial enterprise that occupied the premises at the time of the SER application ceases operations at that
location, then the Class 6b incentive granted pursuant to the SER program shall terminate.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

16-1896
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING THE CREATION OF A MUNICIPAL OR SPECIAL DISTRICT
INSPECTOR GENERAL
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
46 Law Enforcement, Article II, Sheriff, Division 4, Municipal and Special District Inspector General
Ordinance, Sections 46-93 - 46-101 is hereby enacted as follows:

Page 5 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Sec. 46-93.Title
This amendment shall be known and cited as the Cook County Municipal and Special District
Inspector General Ordinance.
Sec. 46-94.Definitions
Corporate Authority shall mean the aggregate body of officers or officer of a Municipality or Special
District who are vested with authority in regard to the operations of the respective Municipality or Special
District.
Inspector General shall mean the lawfully created Office of Inspector General within a Municipality
or Special District.
Misconduct shall mean corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination,
unlawful activity, misconduct and/or any other activity as defined by the Municipality or Special District
in the operation of Municipal or Special District government.
Municipality shall mean any city, village, town or other municipal entity, except the city of Chicago,
whether such city, village, town or municipal entity is located partially or wholly within Cook County.
Sheriff means the Cook County Sheriff.
Special District includes any
(1) Cemetery Association established and organized pursuant to 70 ILCS 105/1, et. seq.;
(2) Drainage District established and organized pursuant to 70 ILCS 605/1, et. seq.;
(3) Mosquito Abatement District established and organized pursuant to 70 ILCS 1005/1, et. seq.;
(4) River Conservancy District established and organized pursuant to 70 ILCS 2105/1, et. seq.;
(5) Sanitary District established and organized pursuant to 70 ILCS 2805/0.01, et. seq., 70 ILCS
2405/1, et. seq. or 70 ILCS 2805/1 et. seq.;
(6) Street Lighting District established and organized pursuant to 70 ILCS 3305/1, et. seq.;
(7) Water Commission established and organized pursuant to 65 ILCS-135-1, et. seq.;
that operates and is located within the boundaries of Cook County, Illinois and to which the President of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners appoints the members of the governing body of the Special
District.
Unlawful political discrimination shall include, but not be limited to basing the terms and conditions of
a non-exempt employee's employment such as hiring, firing, promotion, transfer, discipline or termination
on political reasons and factors.
Page 6 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Sec. 46-95. Establishment and Purpose of an Inspector General.
By January 1, 2017, all Municipalities and Special Districts shall create an Office of Inspector
General for their respective Municipalities or Special Districts. The purpose of the Office of the Inspector
General is to detect, investigate, deter and prevent corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement, unlawful
political discrimination, unlawful activity and/or misconduct in the operation of a Municipal or Special
District government.
Sec. 46-96. Creation.
In creating an Office of Inspector General, Municipalities or Special Districts may:
(1) Appropriate corporate funds and allocate corporate employees to provide Inspector General
services;
(2) Create an Intergovernmental Agreement with other Municipalities or Special Districts to provide
Inspector General services; or
(3) Create an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Sheriff for the provision of Inspector General
services.
Sec. 46-97. Powers and Duties.
The Municipality and/or Special District shall ensure that the organization and administration of its
Inspector General shall be sufficiently independent to ensure that no interference or influence external to
the office adversely affects the independence and objectivity of the Inspector General.
Inspector Generals shall:
(1) Receive and register complaints and information concerning corruption, fraud, waste,
mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination and misconduct in the operations of Municipal
or Special District Government; including, but not limited to any contract, grant, lease, license, or
application or certification of eligibility for the same; all Municipal or Special District employees,
departments, bureaus, boards, agencies, agents, or independent contractors; appointed officials,
and elected officials in the performance of their official duties; contractors and subcontractors
providing goods and services pursuant to a Municipal or Special District contract; and all persons
and business entities seeking Municipal or Special District contracts or certification of eligibility
for Municipal or Special District contracts.
(2) To investigate corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination and
misconduct in operations of Municipal and Special District Government, either in response to such
complaints or on the Inspector General's own initiative, or in the proper case, to refer complaints
and information to an outside law enforcement agency.
(3)

To promulgate rules and regulations for the conduct of investigations consistent with the
requirements of equal protection, due process and this division.

Page 7 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

(4) To request information from and to conduct interviews under oath with Municipal or Special
District employees, officials, agents, contractors, subcontractors, licensees, grantees or persons or
businesses seeking Municipal or Special District contracts, grants, licenses, or certification of
eligibility for Municipal or Special District contracts, for the purpose of investigation of
corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination, or misconduct. This
includes the power to review past, present, and proposed County programs, accounts, records,
contracts and transactions.
(5) To prepare reports and make recommendations for corrective action.
(6) To notify the State's Attorney or other appropriate law enforcement authority if the Inspector
General determines or suspects that possible criminal conduct has occurred, and to promptly
tender to such authorities any evidence or information which has been obtained by the Inspector
General. In the event an investigation by an Inspector General threatens to interfere with an
investigation by a different county, city, state, or federal law enforcement agency, the Inspector
General will cooperate in all respects with such law enforcement agency. The Inspector General
shall acquiesce in its investigation only upon written request of another law enforcement agency.
(7) To serve as liaison between the Municipality or Special District and law enforcement authorities
regarding any matters which have been referred to such authorities by the Inspector General.
(8) To create and maintain a toll-free "Office of the Inspector General Hotline" for the purpose of
receiving citizen and employee reports of corruption, fraud, waste, mismanagement, unlawful
political discrimination and misconduct. The identity of any individual placing a call to the Office
of the Inspector General Hotline shall be kept confidential during and after the investigation of
any complaint made by the caller, unless the caller consents to disclosure of his or her name or
disclosure of the caller's identity is otherwise required by law. Alternatively, reports may be made
anonymously.
Sec. 46-98. Audit Expenses.
The expenses of any audit and investigation conducted or ordered by the Municipal Inspector
General or Special District Inspector General pursuant to this Ordinance shall be paid by the subject
Municipality or Special District. Payment shall be ordered by the subject Municipality or Special District
out of the funds of the Municipality or Special District and such Municipality or Special District authorities
shall make provision for payment. Contracts for the performance of audits required by this Ordinance may
be entered into without competitive bidding.
Sec. 46-99.

Cooperation.

(a)During the term of the Municipal Inspector General or Special District Inspector General, it shall
be the duty of every officer, employee, contractor, subcontractor and licensee of the Municipality or Special
District to cooperate with the Municipal Inspector General or Special District Inspector General in the
management and day-to-day operations of governmental functions and law enforcement duties and public
safety initiatives overseen by the Municipal Inspector General or Special District Inspector General.

Page 8 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

(b)Subject to federal and state constitutional protections, state law employment rights, the
Municipal or Special District's Personnel Policy Manual and any applicable collective bargaining
agreements, failure of any Municipal or Special District employee or appointed official to cooperate with
the Office of the Inspector General in regard to matters covered by this Ordinance shall be considered, at
the sole discretion of the corporate authority of the Municipality or Special District, cause for disciplinary
action, up to and including termination of employment or removal from office.
(c)It shall be the duty of any party doing business with the Municipality or Special District to
cooperate with the Inspector General in regard to matters covered by this Ordinance. Refusal to cooperate
shall be considered, at the sole discretion of the corporate authority, cause for termination of a contract,
license or similar benefit, or as grounds for the corporate authority to refuse to enter into a future contract,
license or other benefit.
(d)Inspector Generals may receive, register and investigate complaints of retaliation against any
Municipal or Special District employee based upon cooperation with the Inspector General.
Sec. 46-100.Auditing Duties.
This Ordinance does not relieve the subject Municipality, Special District, any other governmental
entity or any officer of such entity of the duties required by law with respect to the auditing of public funds
or the disbursement of public funds.
Sec. 46-101. Severability.
If any provision, clause, section, part or application of this chapter to any person or circumstance
is declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder hereof or its application to any other person or circumstance. It is hereby declared
to be the legislative intent of the Cook County Board that this chapter would have been adopted had such
invalid provision, clause, section, part or application not been included herein.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

16-1898
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION CALLING ON NABISCO AND ITS PARENT COMPANY MONDELĒZ
INTERNATIONAL TO CONTINUE ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SOUTH SIDE OF
CHICAGO
WHEREAS, Nabisco Biscuit Company is headquartered in Hanover, New Jersey; and owns and operate
the world’s largest bakery, with 2,400 employees, at 7300 S. Kedzie Avenue in Chicago’s Southwest Side;
and
WHEREAS, in 1993 Nabisco Biscuit Company cited necessary plant updates as the reason for
proposing an outsourcing of their plant;
Page 9 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

WHEREAS, local authorities responded to Nabisco’s concerns and provided support for the plant
expansion;
WHEREAS, since 1993 the Nabisco Biscuit Company has received tax incentives reaching upwards of
ninety million dollars; and
WHEREAS, the then Department of Commerce and Community Affairs in the state of Illinois extended
an enterprise zone to accommodate Nabisco Biscuit Company in order to receive twenty nine million
dollars, over the course of ten years, in tax savings; and
WHEREAS, the City of Chicago’s Department of Planning and Development established a tax increment
financing district to accommodate a plant expansion that resulted in thirty five million dollars in tax savings;
and
WHEREAS, Nabisco Biscuit Company’s parent company Mondelēz International announced in July
2015, another plan to outsource jobs to Mexico instead of investing in its iconic Nabisco bakery in Chicago;
and
WHEREAS, 600 union workers at the South Side Chicago bakery could lose their jobs as the product lines
are sent to Mexico; and
WHEREAS, the union workers at the Chicago Nabisco bakery have been producing high-quality baked
goods such as Oreo and Chips Ahoy cookies, and Ritz and Premium crackers for more than 50 years; and
WHEREAS, these hardworking union workers have dedicated decades of their working lives to fuel the
company’s financial success; and
WHEREAS, their dedication and commitment to building these iconic brands is being rewarded with
callous disregard and the displacement of their jobs to less regulated areas of the world with labor forces
that work for poverty wages; and
WHEREAS, state data shows that the number of people employed in Chicago manufacturing jobs shrank
by nearly half between 2001 and 2014; and
WHEREAS, manufacturing jobs are needed to provide for adequate income for families, support for public
services to keep our communities safe, effective education of our children and the proliferation of additional
employment opportunities; and
WHEREAS, a sound economic base tied to good paying jobs is necessary for the extension of every
opportunity and service within our communities; and
WHEREAS, the work created by the companies doing business within the confines of Cook County are
essential for the well-being of their adjacent communities; and
WHEREAS, Cook County expects corporate partners to make an earnest effort to retain and promote
future capital investment in Cook County; and

Page 10 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

WHEREAS, through Ordinance 34-230 Cook County has demonstrated a commitment to supporting local
businesses that exemplify the need for local businesses to serve as stakeholders in their communities and
has established a preference for local businesses.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that any businesses that abandons its commitment to its local
community by moving production to low wage countries will be seen as abandoning its relationship with
Cook County; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, Cook County strongly encourages Nabisco Biscuit Company/Mondelez
International to engage in discussions to find ways to maintain its relationship with the immediate
community whilst also maintaining jobs within the County.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

16-1767
Presented by: IVAN SAMSTEIN, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance
REPORT
Department: Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Request: Receive and File the Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance Depository
Accounts for Fiscal Year 2015
Report Title: Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance Depository Accounts for Fiscal
Year 2015
Report Period: Fiscal Year 2015
Summary: Pursuant the Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance (County Code Section
34-40 et seq.) the Office of the Chief Financial Officer has requested certain information and documents
regarding depository accounts held by all elected and appointed officials of Cook County during Fiscal
Year 2015. The attached Report is a compilation of all information received
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

16-1795
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Request: Receive and File

Page 11 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 1/21/2016 - 2/10/2016
Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125(k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve and expenditure of $150,000.00 or
more, within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

16-1772
Presented by: JACQUELINE GOMEZ, Director, Office of Contract Compliance
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Contract Compliance
Vendor: Colette Holt & Associates, Oakland, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Disparity Study
Original Contract Period: 7/8/2013 - 7/7/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/8/2016 - 7/7/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$673,506.50

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/19/2013, $673,506.50
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/29/2015, 7/8/2015 - 1/7/2016
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/17/2014, 7/8/2014 - 7/7/2015
This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016, $173,507.00
Page 12 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Accounts: 490-260
Contract Number(s): 1318-12703
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: The objective of the disparity study is to have statistically reliable data relevant to each
agency to validate its M/WBE program and ensure the programs are defensible in court, if challenged.
The Consultant conducted three separate disparity studies (the County, Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, and the Forest Preserve District) whereby the consultant collected, researched and
analyzed the data gathered. The additional time requested is for the consultant to finalize these reports.
This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code.
Colette Holt was previously awarded a contract by the State of Illinois through a competitive Request for
Proposals process.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

16-1220
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): D Construction, Inc., Coal City, Illinois
Action: Approval.
Good(s) or Service(s): This Quality Control/Quality Assurance (QC/QA) improvement which consists
of removal of the existing hot-mix asphalt surface to a depth of 3 inches, crack sealing, joint repair, class
d patching, resurfacing with hot-mix asphalt surface course, polymerized leveling binder (machine
method), storm sewer replacement, drainage work and ditch enclosures, pavement marking, traffic
protection and other related work to complete the project.
Location of Project: Joe Orr Road (Old) Blue Stem Parkway to Torrence Avenue in the Village of
Lynwood
Section: 12-B6736-04-RS
County Board District: 6
Contract Number: 13-18-007
Page 13 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A
Final Cost: $510,180.06
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount:
Construction Contract Bid Amount

21.6% ($140,389.24) below the

Summary: On 3/20/2013 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to D Construction, Inc., Coal City,
Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and specifications.
The awarded contract amount of this project was $650,569.30 and the final construction cost is
$510,180.06. The decreases are attributed to the difference between the estimated quantities and actual
field quantities of work performed with deductions in class D patching, hot-mix asphalt surface,
aggregate base course, reflective crack control, Engineer’s field office and water main per field
conditions. Account 600-600

16-1360
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
COMPLETION
OF
CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)

APPROVAL

RESOLUTION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Central Blacktop Co., Inc., La Grange, Illinois
Action: Approval.
Good(s) or Service(s): This contact for improvement consists of removal of the existing hot-mix asphalt
surface, hot mix asphalt patching, resurfacing with hot-mix asphalt surface course, leveling binder
(machine method), drainage repairs and adjustments, pavement marking, traffic protection, top soil and
sodding, gabions, flared end section, seeding and mulching and all other related work and miscellaneous
appurtenances.
Location of Project: Group 4-2012: 87th Street, Cliff Street to 96th Avenue (La Grange Road) 88th
Avenue at 105th Street in the Villages of Willow Springs and Lyons.
Section: 11-B4221-03-RS
County Board District: 16, 17
Contract Number: 12-23-137
Federal Project Number: N/A
Federal Job Number: N/A

Page 14 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Final Cost: $625,745.54
Percent Above or Below Construction Contract Bid Amount:
Construction Contract Bid Amount

11.5% ($81,122.46) below the

Summary: On 6/5/2012 your Honorable Body awarded a contract to Central Blacktop Co., Inc., La
Grange, Illinois for the aforesaid improvement to be completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications. The awarded contract amount of this project was $706,868.00 and the final construction
cost is $625,745.54. Motor Fuel Tax Fund: 600-600 Account.

16-1467
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type:

Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution

Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Diamond grinding on selected existing Portland Cement Concrete (PCC) roadway segments,
traffic control and protection, pavement marking, landscaping, engineering and other necessary highway
appurtenances. This improvement will promote economic development, regional mobility, and is needed
to protect the public investment in the highway system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable
highway.
Location: Various Locations throughout Cook County.
Section: 16-GRIND-00-PV
County Board District(s):

County Wide.

Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $785,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)

16-1468
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED APPROPRIATING RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Village of Crestwood, Crestwood, Illinois
Page 15 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Request: Approval
Good(s) or Services(s): Engineering Design Services
Location: Midlothian Turnpike, Central Avenue to Pulaski Road in the Village of Crestwood in County
Board Districts 5, 6.
Section: 16-B8027-00-EG
Fiscal Impact: $61, 000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: 600-585 Account
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
resolution appropriating funds for Phase I Preliminary Engineering, and Phase II Civil Engineering
Design to be conducted by an outside consulting engineering firm for the future construction of a
sidewalk and bicycle path along the ROW of Midlothian Turnpike from Central Avenue to Pulaski Road,
and said services shall be supervised by the Village of Crestwood forces. This project is being conducted
in partnership with the Southwest Conference of Mayors and the Village of Crestwood. An
Intergovernmental Agreement will be forthcoming to delineate project cost and maintenance
responsibilities of the Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways and the Village of
Crestwood.
These services will promote economic development, regional mobility, and are needed to protect the
public investment in the highway system and provide a safe, efficient and sustainable highway.

16-1558
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF REAL ESTATE
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): N/A
Action: The Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways requests permission to discuss
the above captioned matter with the Board of Commissioners, or the appropriate Committee thereof,
pursuant to County Ordinance 95-O-7, 11-O-84 Cook County Code Section: 34-133, 2-362 regarding
acquisition of real estate.
Section: N/A
Parcel(s): 0KR0001, 0KR0001TE-A, B & C
Location: Lake Cook Road, Raupp Boulevard to Weiland Road in the Village of Buffalo Grove
Board District: 14

Page 16 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts:

N/A
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

16-1182
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Imperial Parking (U.S.), LLC D/B/A Impark, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Parking Management Services
Original Contract Period: 12/10/2011 - 12/19/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/1/2016 - 8/31/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $2,925,055.59
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 12/19/2011, $2,024,754.12
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):
10/7/2015, $430,671.00, 9/1/2015 - 2/29/2016

11/19/2014, $337,459.02, 12/20/2014 - 6/19/2015;

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 7/14/2015, $132,171.45, 6/20/2015
- 8/31/2015
This Increase Requested: $382,741.86
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2016 $382,741.86
Accounts: 200-450
Contract Number(s): 11-53-164
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Department of Facilities Management (DFM) is requesting approval to extend and
increase the contract for management services at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center parking
Page 17 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

facility. DFM is currently working with the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer to finalize a
solicitation for this service, in addition to working with County stakeholders to finalize a long-term
strategy for management of the parking the facility. This increase and extension will allow for a
continuation of services.
This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Imperial Parking (U.S.), LLC d/b/a Impark was the lowest, responsive and
responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

16-1774
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
J&A PALLET INC. CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: J&A Pallet Inc.
Address: 1231, 1241, 1301 and 1321 Arnold Street, Chicago Heights, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: City of Chicago Heights, Illinois
Cook County District: 5
Permanent Index
32-21-213-016-0000

Number:

32-21-213-013-0000;

32-21-213-014-0000;

Municipal Resolution Number: 2014-52
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 13 months
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 2 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 29 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 29 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 5

Page 18 of 29

32-21-213-015-0000;

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

Proposed use of property: Industrial-remanufacturing and recycling
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor

Page 19 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

16-1790
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COUNTRY CLUB HILLS PLAZA, LLC CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: Country Club Hills Plaza, LLC
Address: 4201 W. 167th Street, Country Club Hills, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: City of Country Club Hills, Illinois
Cook County District: 5th District
Permanent Index Number: 28-27-200-008-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Country Club Hills Resolution No. R-01-16
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: One (1) month vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 10 full-time, 165 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: None
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 20 full-time, 380 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 50 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Commercial use/ movie theatre
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: No, not applicable
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and

Page 20 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

16-0907
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 have been negotiated between the County of Cook/Cook County Assessor of and the American
Federation of State County and Municipal Employees Council 31 (AFSCME) representing support staff
in the Office of the Public Defender/County Revenue (AFSCME 3696); assistant public defenders
(AFSCME 3315); caseworkers, interpreters and investigative personnel in the Offices of the Public
Defender, Medical Examiner and Adoption and Child Custody Advocacy (AFSCME 1767); and
AFSCME 1111, 1178 and 1276; and
Page 21 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the amended Salary
Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreements negotiated between the County of Cook/
Office of the Chief Judge Circuit Court of Cook County/Cook County Assessor/Office of the State’s
Attorney of Cook County, Illinois and AFSCME Council 31; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreements and the amended Salary Schedules as provided by the
Bureau of Human Resources.

16-1278
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Interim Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resources Bi-Weekly Activity Reports for Pay Periods 2, and 3
Report Period: Pay Period 2: 1/10/2016 - 1/23/2016, Pay Period 3: 1/24/2016 - 2/6/2016
Summary: Submitting the Human resources Activity Reports for the Pay Periods listed above

16-1332
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING ECONOMIC PACKAGE INCLUDING WAGE INCREASES AND HEALTHCARE
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, the Salary Schedules and wage adjustments for the period of December 1, 2012 through
November 30, 2017 have been negotiated between Cook County Office of the Chief Judge and the
American Federation of State County Municipal Employees 1767 (AFSCME 1767) representing
Caseworkers at the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the Salary Schedules included
in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the Cook County Office of the Chief Judge
and AFSCME 1767; and
(a) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2013 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 1.00%
Page 22 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

(b) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2014 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 1.50%
(c) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
(d) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2015 the pay rates for all
classifications shall be increased 2.00%
(e) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2016 the pay rates for all
classifications shall be increased 2.25%
(f) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2017 the pay rates for all classifications
shall be increased 2.00%
WHEREAS, the current healthcare plan shall be revised as follows:
Item
Classic Blue
HMO OOP Maximum
HMO Accident/Illness
HMO Urgent Care
HMO Specialists
HMO ER
PPO Deductible
PPO OOP Maximum
PPO Accident/Illness
PPO Specialist
PPO ER
RX
Generic Step Therapy
Mandatory Maintenance Choice
Healthcare Contributions

12/1/2015
Eliminate
$1,600/$3,200
$15
$15
$20
$75
$350/$700
$1,600/$3,200
90% after $25
90% after $35
$75
$10/$25/$40
Implement
Implement
Additional 1 percent of salary aggregate increase
(.50 percent increase on 12/1/2015 and .50 percent
increase on 12/1/2016)

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby approve the economic package including wage increases and healthcare as provided by the Bureau
of Human Resources.

Page 23 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

16-1742
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF COOK AND THE
HOUSE STAFF ASSOCIATION OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the House Staff Association of Cook
County; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases have already been approved and are
reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between
the County of Cook and the House Staff Association of Cook County; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook and the House Staff
Association of Cook County as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

16-1743
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF COOK AND THE
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 399
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established
regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2014 through November
30, 2017 has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the International Union of Operating
Engineers, Local 399; and
WHEREAS, prevailing rates and general wage increases have already been approved and are reflected
in the Appendix A included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the County of
Cook and the International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook and the International Union
of Operating Engineers, Local 399 as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 24 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK

16-0861
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): County Clerk
Vendor: Catalyst Consulting Group, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Service, Maintenance and Hosting of County Clerk Website Applications
Contract Value: $692,520.00
Contract period: 3/9/2016 - 3/8/2018 with one (1) one-year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016 $357,160.00, FY 2017 $290,360.00, FY 2017:
$45,000.00
Accounts: 524-260
Contract Number(s): 1684-15146
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
The Bureau of Technology Concurs
Summary: The Clerk’s Office is requesting to award a sole source contract with Catalyst Consulting
Group, Inc. (Catalyst) for the hosting of web servers and providing continued support and maintenance
of proprietary applications developed by Catalyst. As the provider of the Clerk’s website since 2009,
Catalyst has developed nearly twenty (20) applications to help the Clerk’s office better serve the public.
Catalyst was originally awarded the contract through a Request for Proposals process conducted by the
Clerk’s Office in 2008 and a sole source contract was completed in 2013 for continued service.
This is a Sole Source Contract pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.

Page 25 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS

16-1464
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Sheriff’s Department of Corrections
Vendor: Cornerstone Detention Products, Inc., Madison, Alabama
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Mattresses with Integrated Pillows
Contract Value: $264,000.00
Contract period: 3/14/2016 - 3/13/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options.
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2016: $132,000.00; FY 2017: $132,000.00
Accounts: 239-333
Contract Number(s): 1511-15125
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The competitive bidding process was followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Bids were solicited for the purchase of mattresses with integrated pillows for the
inmates of the Department of Corrections. Cornerstone Detention Products, Inc., was the lowest,
responsive and responsible bidder.

Page 26 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
LABOR COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 1, 2016
16-1331 PROPOSED RESOLUTION approving a collective bargaining agreement with Illinois Fraternal
Order of Police (FOP)
___________

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 1 2016
16-1511 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT David Grossman, Member, Cook County Board of Ethics
16-1512 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Professor Juliet Sorensen, Member, Cook County Board of
Ethics
16-1513 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Thomas Szromba, Member, Cook County Board of Ethics
16-1514 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Gia Orr, Member, Cook County Commission on Human Rights
16-1515 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Amber Smock, Member, Cook County Commission on Human
Rights
16-1516 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Edith Crigler, Member, Cook County Justice Advisory Council
16-1517 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Lisa Stephens, Member, Cook County Justice Advisory Council
16-1519 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Dia Weil, Member, Cook County Justice Advisory Council
16-1539 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Velisha L Haddox, Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources
___________
AUDIT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 1, 2016
16-1352 REPORT Software Licenses Internal Audit Report
16-1357 REPORT Travel Expenditures Internal Audit Report
16-1382 REPORT FY15 4th Quarter - Open Findings Status Report
___________

Page 27 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

WORKFORCE, HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
16-1053 PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER
RECOVERY (CDBG-DR) BEDS Plus Care, Inc., LaGrange, Illinois
16-1056 PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER
RECOVERY (CDBG-DR) Hines Veterans Residences Limited Partnership, Hines, Illinois
16-1058 PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER
RECOVERY (CDBG-DR) Ford Heights Cooperative, Inc., Ford Heights, Illinois
16-1059 PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM Related Affordable,
Chicago, Illinois
___________
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
16-0456 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Class 8 Property Tax Incentive Request
16-1379 PROPOSED RESOLUTION South Chicago Property Management Class 6b Sustainable
Emergency Relief (SER)
16-1385 PROPOSED RESOLUTION 5736 Property Group, LLC Class 8 Property Tax Incentive Request
___________
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
16-1586 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Replica Firearms Ordinance
___________
FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
COURT ORDERS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
SUBROGATION RECOVERIES
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS
Page 28 of 29

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 2, 2016

EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
16-1526 REPORT Cook County Health and Hospitals System Monthly Report
___________
ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
16-1733 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 15-57
16-1734 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 16-01
16-1735 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 16-03
16-1737 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Variation V 16-04
16-1664 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Creation of Crane Operators License and Board of
Crane Operator Examiners
___________
ROADS AND BRIDGES COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
16-1145 PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION
AND HIGHWAYS) Lake Cook Road, Milwaukee Avenue (Portwine Road) to Illinois Tollway (294) in
the Village of Northbrook, Cook County Forest Preserve District, Unincorporated Cook County and Lake
County
16-1146 PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION
AND HIGHWAYS) 104th Avenue and 107th Street, 104th Avenue over Cal-Sag Channel in
Unincorporated Palos Township
___________
VETERANS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 2, 2016
16-1545 PROPOSED RESOLUTION urging the United States Congress to pass the “Recognize, Assist,
Include, Support And Engage (RAISE) Family Caregivers Act”

Page 29 of 29

 