Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes Labor Committee
Wednesday, June 8, 2016

9:55 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Vice Chairman Tobolski asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

16-3590
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/10/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this Committee
Minutes be approved. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

 16-2958
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING ECONOMIC PACKAGE INCLUDING WAGE INCREASES AND HEALTHCARE
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has established regulations
regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2012 through November 30, 2017
has been negotiated between the County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County and the Metropolitan Alliance of Police
(MAP Chapter 507) representing the Sheriff’s Telecommunications, Vehicle Service and Electronic Monitoring
Supervisors; and
WHEREAS salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the
Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between County of Cook/Sheriff of Cook County and MAP Chapter
507; and
(a) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2013 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 1.00%
(b) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2014 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 1.50%
(c) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 2.00%
(d) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2015 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 2.00%
(e) effective the first full pay period on or after December 1, 2016 the pay rates for all classifications shall
be increased 2.25%
(f) effective the first full pay period on or after June 1, 2017 the pay rates for all classifications shall be
increased 2.00%
WHEREAS, the current healthcare plan shall be revised as follows:
Item
Classic Blue
HMO OOP Maximum
HMO Accident/Illness
HMO Urgent Care
HMO Specialists
HMO ER
PPO Deductible
PPO OOP Maximum
PPO Accident/Illness
PPO Specialist
PPO ER
RX

12/1/2015
Eliminate
$1,600/$3,200
$15
$15
$20
$75
$350/$700
$1,600/$3,200
90% after $25
90% after $35
$75
$10/$25/$40
Page 2 of 21

 Generic Step Therapy
Mandatory Maintenance Choice
Healthcare Contributions

Implement
Implement
Additional 1 percent of salary aggregate increase
(.50 percent increase on 12/1/2015 and .50 percent
increase on 12/1/2016)

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby approve
the economic package including wage increases and healthcare as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.
A motion was made by Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, that this Resolution be
Recommended for Approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

16-3191
Sponsored by:
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, BRIDGET GAINER, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI and
DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

JOB TRAINING REQUIREMENT FOR CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVES
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, §6 under the
1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, there are certain areas of Cook County that have a lack of viable industrial and commercial
buildings, which is contributing to substantial unemployment in such areas; Cook County has established
property tax classifications for new development of industrial structures, or the substantial rehabilitation
and re-utilization of existing industrial structures;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in order to effectively promote economic and community
development for its citizens, the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Job Training
Requirement for Class 8 Property Tax Incentives; and,
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 - Taxation, Article
II - Real Estate Property Taxation, Division 2 - Classification System for Assessments, Section 74-63 Assessment Classes (Class 8) and Section 74-70 - 8a and 8b designation/assessment classes, of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-63. - Assessment Classes.

Page 3 of 21

 ***
(12)

Class 8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all newly
constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or
abandoned property, as defined in this division, including the land upon which such property is
situated; or all buildings and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent
such rehabilitation has added to their value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation.
a.

Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as
the square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the
improvements on the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook
County Tax Reactivation Project or must be located in one of the following designated
geographical areas:

b.

1.

An area which has been certified as in need of substantial revitalization in
accordance with the provisions of Section 74-65(b);

2.

An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on
June 22, 1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the
municipality in which such real estate is located, or, if in an unincorporated area,
the County must by lawful Resolution determine that such real estate is
consistent with an overall plan for the rehabilitation of the area; or

3.

Any one of the following five townships: Bloom, Bremen, Calumet, Rich and
Thornton.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still
determine that special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for
purpose of Class 8, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have
not been vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have
been vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances,
shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The
applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of
special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate
such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide
a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or
Page 4 of 21

 Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes
of Class 8 need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 8 application with the Assessor,
but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to
request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 8
application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or
the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special
circumstances has been requested.
Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the
instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that
special circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class
8 under the TEERM Program, if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings
and other structures have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The
finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8
application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the
County Board is required to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed
"abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The
applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of
special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate
such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide
a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding
that special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or
Resolution validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes
of Class 8 need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 8 application with the Assessor,
but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to
request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 8
application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the municipality or
the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding special
circumstances has been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Office on or
before November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.
c.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested,
whichever is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from
the affected districts.

d.

An affidavit of the applicant attesting that all construction, demolition, maintenance or
repair services at the subject property shall only be performed by a contractor or
subcontractor who participates in an active apprenticeship and training program
approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of
Apprenticeship, shall also be submitted with the application. The Assessor or the Bureau
of Economic Development shall provide by rule for the filing of such affidavit and the
filing of any subsequent supporting documents which establishes credible evidence that
any construction, maintenance or repair service performed at the subject property will
Page 5 of 21

 be done by a contractor or subcontractor who participates in an active apprenticeship
and training program approved and registered with the United States Department of
Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship. The failure to file such affidavit and supporting
documents within the time established by the Assessor’s rules shall result in the loss of
the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.
e d. This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of new
construction (excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was completed
and initially assessed, or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial
re-occupancy, or in the case of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program,
from the date of the notice of approval.
f e. Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed
during the last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent assessment level pursuant to
Section 74-64(11), if the following requirements are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of the taxpayer's intent to request
renewal of the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real
estate is located in an unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the
real estate is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly
stating that the municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined
that the industrial or commercial use of the property is necessary and beneficial
to the local economy, and supports and consents to renewal of the Class 8; and

3.

A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the
Assessor's Office before the expiration of the ten-percent assessment level
period.

4.

Applicant shall submit an affidavit to the Bureau of Economic Development
attesting that, at all times after the applicant receives and maintains a Class 8
designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair service is
performed at the subject property, then any contractors and any subcontractors
who perform such service must participate in an active apprenticeship and
training program approved and registered with the United States Department of
Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship.

g f. Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program are not renewable.
For all other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long as
the property continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.
h g. A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's
Office to the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the
County Board from the affected districts.
i h. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years,
pursuant to Section 74-64(11). After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate
shall revert to the applicable classification under this Division.
Page 6 of 21

 j i. The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper
review of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the benefits provided under
Class 8.
k j. The certification of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire five years
from the date such certification is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant of the
date of expiration of certification one year before the date of the expiration of the
certification. Such certification, pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one
additional five-year period subject to reapplication by the appropriate local governing
body within the period from one year to six months prior to the expiration of the initial
five-year period.
l k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all
Class 8 recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at
the Class 8 site. A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the
Secretary of the County Board for distribution to members of the County Board from
the affected districts. Failure to file such reports within the time established by the
Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating to the nonfiling.
m.

Taxpayers who currently receive a Class 8 incentive shall file with the Bureau of
Economic Development an affidavit as required under subsection (d) of this Section
within 90 days of the enactment that will be applicable for all future construction,
demolition, maintenance or repair services performed at the subject property as required
under subsection (d) of this Section. Failure to provide the affidavit in a timely manner
may result in the loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.
***

Sec. 74-70. - Class 8a and 8b designation/assessment class.
(a) Class 8a. Real estate that is used primarily for industrial or commercial purposes, which real estate
would qualify for a Class 8 designation pursuant to Sections 74-62 through 74-64, except for the fact
that the qualifying use of the property prior to application for the incentive does not comply with the
definition of abandoned property provided for in Section 74-62(b), can receive a designation as a
Class 8a property so long as the applicant can show that it has complied with all of the requirements
necessary to receive a Class 8 designation per Sections 74-62 through 74-64, except for meeting the
definition of abandonment provided for in Section 74-62(b), but only when the Cook County Board
of Commissioners provides a Resolution or Ordinance in support of such designation absent
abandonment.
(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a Resolution or Ordinance in
support of Class 8a designation absent abandonment when:
a.

An applicant who collects or transmits sales tax has obtained from the municipality in which
the real estate is located or the Cook County Board of Commissioners, if the real estate is
located in an unincorporated area, an agreement to abate a portion of the local government's
sales tax generated by the industrial or commercial enterprise located on such real estate and

Page 7 of 21

 such abatement of sales tax must cover the period of time for which the applicant would
qualify for this Class 8a incentive; and
b.

Applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that due to national and regional economic conditions beyond its control the industrial or
commercial enterprise has undergone a significant reduction in net operating income of at
least 40 percent in the year it makes application for this incentive as compared to the average
net operating income of the industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three years; and

c.

Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an
economic impact study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise is not economically
viable and as such it will cease operations within 60 days of the submission of an eligibility
application for Class 8a designation to the Cook County Assessor, and thereafter the property
will become vacant and unused for an extended period of time of at least 24 months; and

d.

Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an
economic impact study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that designation as a Class 8a property will allow the industrial or
commercial enterprise to be economically viable and thereby continue its operations so that
the industrial or commercial enterprise can continue to occupy and fully utilize the real estate
for an extended period of time.

e.

Applicant must provide credible evidence that, at all times after the applicant receives and
maintains a Class 8 designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair
service is performed at the subject property, then any contractors and any subcontractors
who perform such service must participate in an active apprenticeship and training program
approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of
Apprenticeship.

(2) Such a Resolution or Ordinance must contain:
a.

A finding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that industrial or
commercial enterprise has undergone a significant reduction in net operating income of at
least 40 percent in the year it makes application for the incentive as compared to the average
net operating income of the industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three years; and

b.

A finding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that Class 8a
designation of the property is necessary for the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise
to continue its operations and that without such designation the industrial or commercial
enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to become vacant and
unused; and
A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to
the designation of the property as a Class 8a property absent an abandonment requirement;
and

c.

d.

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to
the application made to the Cook County Assessor requesting designation as a Class 8a
property absent an abandonment requirement.
Page 8 of 21

 (3) When the real estate is located in an incorporated area of the county, and designation as a Class
8a property is sought using the provisions of this Section, the municipality in which the real estate
is located must provide to the Cook County Assessor a Resolution or Ordinance that contains the
following:
a.

A finding by the municipality that it has determined that Class 8a designation of the property
is necessary for the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise to continue its operations
and that without such designation the industrial or commercial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to become vacant and unused; and

b.

A statement by the municipality that it supports and consents to the action by the Cook
County Board of Commissioners to support designation of the property as a Class 8a
property; and

c.

A statement by the municipality that it supports and consents to the Class 8a application to
the Cook County Assessor; and

(4) Real estate receiving a Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be
assessed at the lowest percentage of market value provided for in Section 74-64(12), however
the term of the incentive will be limited to five years only and such Class 8a designation shall
not be renewed:
a.

After the initial application has been approved and granted, if the subject real estate receiving
the Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section is sold or the applicant
transfers ownership of any portion of the property at any time prior to the five-year term of
the 8a classification, then the property's Class 8a classification shall be subject to an
eligibility review by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the municipality, and the
Assessor under the procedures set forth in this Ordinance for the remainder of the five-year
term.

(5) In order for real estate to qualify for a Class 8a designation an eligibility application must be
made to the Cook County Assessor.
(6) Class 8a designation cannot be applied to real estate unless the following has occurred:
application is made to the Cook County Assessor; all required municipal and county Ordinances
and Resolutions are provided to the Cook County Assessor; and the Cook County Assessor
determines that the real estate which is the subject of the application for a Class 8a designation
would qualify for designation as a Class 8 property but for the inability to comply with the
definition of abandonment pursuant to Section 74-62(b).
(7) The Cook County Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this Section to determine eligibility
for the benefits provided under Class 8a.
(8) Upon receipt of an eligibility application for a Class 8a designation, the Cook County Assessor
shall forward such application and any supporting documentation provided with such application
to the Cook County Board of Commissioners or its designee for consideration as to whether the
County Board will provide a Resolution or Ordinance in support of a Class 8a designation absent
abandonment.
Page 9 of 21

 (9) Real estate receiving a Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall not
be eligible for a Class 8a designation for any year prior to the assessment year for which an
application for the designation is made to the Cook County Assessor.
(10) The Cook County Board of Commissioners or its designee may adopt rules consistent with this
Section that may be needed to ensure proper review of information, data and documents
submitted in support of a request to the County Board for a Resolution or Ordinance in support
of a Class 8a designation as provided for in this Section.
(11) Applicants for a Class 8a designation of property can only make such an application for the
following assessment years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and the Cook County Assessor
shall not designate any real estate as Class 8a property for assessment year 2018 or thereafter.
(12) Real estate that receives a designation as a Class 8a incentive property will lose such designation
and the corresponding reduced level of assessment, if the industrial or commercial enterprise
located on the property ceases operations and the subject real estate becomes vacant and unused.
(13) Real estate that receives a designation as a Class 8a incentive property will lose such designation
and the corresponding reduced level of assessment upon termination of the required partial sales
tax abatement by local government.
(14) This Section 74-70 of the Real Estate Classification Ordinance will become effective upon
passage.
(b) Class 8b. Real estate and improvements that house inpatient and outpatient hospital based services,
where the property has been acquired for hospital use by a for-profit acquirer unrelated to the not-forprofit disposer, thereby avoiding Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board discontinuation
approval, shall be considered for a Class 8b designation if it meets the requirements of this Section
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners provides a Resolution or Ordinance in support of such
designation.
(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a Resolution or Ordinance in
support of Class 8b designation when:
a.

The applicant is a hospital, as defined in the Hospital Licensing Act, or an entity that owns
the real property on which a hospital is located, the hospital is licensed by the state, and the
abandonment of the hospital would require the applicant, or the hospital on behalf of which
the applicant owns the real property on which the hospital is located, to obtain a permit or
exemption from the State of Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board pursuant
to the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Act prior to discontinuing hospital operations and
to obtain a second permit or exemption prior to reopening or otherwise reestablishing the
hospital after abandonment;

b.

The applicant demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of
the Class 8b designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be
retained for hospital use with the associated employment benefits relative to industrial or
commercial use of the property;

Page 10 of 21

 c.

The subject hospital is located in a zip code which has a ten-percent or greater incidence of
families and/or individuals below the poverty level, as identified by the U.S. Census Bureau's
most recent census; and

d.

The subject hospital employs at least 750 full-time equivalents (full-time equivalent jobs
being defined as total hours worked by all non-full-time employees divided by average
annual hours worked by the full-time employees).

e.

Applicant must provide credible evidence that, at all times after the applicant receives and
maintains a Class 8 designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair
service is performed at the subject property, then any contractors and any subcontractors
who perform such service must participate in an active apprenticeship and training program
approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of
Apprenticeship.

(2) Such a Resolution or Ordinance must contain:
a.

A finding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the applicant
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of the Class 8b
designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be retained for
hospital use; and

b.

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to
the designation of the property as a Class 8b property.

(3) When the real estate is located in an incorporated area of the county, and designation as a Class
8b property is sought using the provisions of this Section, the municipality in which the real
estate is located must provide to the Cook County Assessor a resolution or ordinance that contains
the following:
a.

A finding by the corporate authorities of the municipality that the proposed redevelopment
contemplated for the subject hospital or the property on which the hospital sits is necessary
and appropriate and that, without a classification having the impact of this Section, the
special circumstances that exist on the property on which the subject hospital sits including,
but not limited to, the unique requirement that mandates that the subject hospital's operations
are continually maintained without interruption in order for the State of Illinois Health
Facilities and Services Review Board to issue a certificate of need and licensure approval
for the continued operation of the subject hospital and the extraordinary need for the
continued operation of the subject hospital within the applicable region, will not be
addressed and the property on which the subject hospital sits will become vacant and
underutilized and cause the continued exasperation of blighted factors within the
municipality and region;

b.

A finding by the corporate authorities of the municipality that a classification having the
impact of this Section is necessary for the redevelopment to occur on the property on which
the subject hospital sits; and

Page 11 of 21

 c.

A statement by the corporate authorities of the municipality supporting and consenting to
the filing of an application for a classification having the impact of this Section for the
property on which the subject hospital sits.

(4) Real estate receiving a Class 8b designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be
assessed at the lowest percentage of market value and for the term provided for in Section 7464(12).
(5) In order for real estate to qualify for a Class 8b designation, a Class 8 or Class 8b application
must be made or have been made to the Cook County Assessor. Any application for Class 8
submitted with required municipal approval after July 1, 2008, for hospital property where the
property was acquired for hospital use by an unrelated for-profit acquirer, avoiding the Health
Facilities and Services Review Board discontinuation approval, shall be reconsidered as an
application pursuant to this Section upon supplement of such Class 8 application with the
additional information required in this Section, if any. Upon receipt of an application, the Cook
County Assessor shall forward such application and any supporting documentation provided with
the application to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for consideration as to whether the
Cook County Board will provide a resolution or ordinance in support of a Class 8b designation.
Real estate receiving a Class 8b designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be
eligible for such designation beginning in the assessment year during which an application for
the classification having the impact of this Section is made to the Cook County Assessor.
(6) Class 8b designation cannot be applied to real estate unless the following has occurred:
application is made or has been made to the Cook County Assessor, and all required municipal
and county Ordinances and Resolutions are provided to the Cook County Assessor.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Butler, that this Ordinance
Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE ID 16-3191
Sponsored by: JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, BRIDGET GAINER, JEFFREY TOBOLSKI AND SEAN M.
MORRISON, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
JOB TRAINING REQUIREMENT FOR CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVES
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government as defined in Article VII, §6 under the 1970
Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs; and

Page 12 of 21

 WHEREAS, there are certain areas of Cook County that have a lack of viable industrial and commercial buildings,
which is contributing to substantial unemployment in such areas; Cook County has established property tax
classifications for new development of industrial structures, or the substantial rehabilitation and re-utilization of
existing industrial structures;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, in order to effectively promote economic and community
development for its citizens, the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a Job Training
Requirement for Class 8 Property Tax Incentives; and,
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 – Taxation, Article II – Real
Estate Property Taxation, Division 2 – Classification System for Assessments, Section 74-63 – Assessment Classes
(Class 8) and Section 74-70 – 8a and 8b designation/assessment classes, of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:
Sec. 74-63. – Assessment Classes.
***
(12)

Class 8. Real estate used primarily for industrial and commercial purposes, consisting of all newly
constructed buildings or other structures, including the land upon which they are situated; or abandoned
property, as defined in this division, including the land upon which such property is situated; or all buildings
and other structures which are substantially rehabilitated to the extent such rehabilitation has added to their
value, including qualified land related to the rehabilitation.
a.

Land qualifies when the rehabilitation adds vertical or horizontal square footage to the
improvements. The amount of land eligible for the incentive shall be in such proportion as the
square footage added by the rehabilitation bears to the total square footage of the improvements on
the parcel. Such real estate must be either obtained through the Cook County Tax Reactivation
Project or must be located in one of the following designated geographical areas:

b.

1.

An area which has been certified as in need of substantial revitalization in accordance
with the provisions of Section 74-65(b);

2.

An enterprise community as proposed and approved by the County Board on June 22,
1994, or the Chicago City Council on May 18, 1994, and the municipality in which such
real estate is located, or, if in an unincorporated area, the County must by lawful
Resolution determine that such real estate is consistent with an overall plan for the
rehabilitation of the area; or

3.

Any one of the following five townships: Bloom, Bremen, Calumet, Rich and Thornton.

In the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined
herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 8, unless:
1.

There has been a purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have not been
vacant and unused prior to such purchase; or

2.

There has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures have been
vacant and unused for less than 24 continuous months.

The finding of abandonment, along with the specification of the special circumstances, shall be
included in the Resolution or Ordinance supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If
the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a municipality, the approval of the County Board is required
to validate such, a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a
Page 13 of 21

 Resolution to that effect shall be obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling
Ordinance with the required finding of special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance
to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will
validate such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide
a County Resolution to that effect. A certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that
special circumstances exist, as well as a certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution
validating such a finding that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not
be filed at the time of filing the Class 8 application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the
Assessor no later than the date an assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 8.
If the Resolution is not filed at the time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead file,
at that time, a letter from the municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a
Resolution or Ordinance regarding special circumstances has been requested.
Temporary Emergency Economic Recovery Modification (TEERM) Program: In the instance
where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as defined herein, the
municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify that the property is deemed "abandoned" for purpose of Class 8 under the
TEERM Program, if there has been no purchase for value and the buildings and other structures
have been vacant and unused for at least 12 continuous months. The finding of abandonment, along
with the specification of the special circumstances, shall be included in the Resolution or Ordinance
supporting and consenting to the Class 8 application. If the Ordinance or Resolution is that of a
municipality, the approval of the County Board is required to validate such, a finding that the
property is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8, and a Resolution to that effect shall be
obtained. The applicant must obtain the municipal enabling Ordinance with the required finding of
special circumstances and present such municipal Ordinance to the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County prior to its determination as to whether it will validate such a finding that the property
is deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 and provide a County Resolution to that effect. A
certified copy of an Ordinance or Resolution finding that special circumstances exist, as well as a
certified copy of a County Ordinance or Resolution validating such a finding that the property is
deemed "abandoned" for purposes of Class 8 need not be filed at the time of filing the Class 8
application with the Assessor, but must be filed with the Assessor no later than the date an
assessment appeal is filed to request the class change to Class 8. If the Resolution is not filed at the
time of the Class 8 application, the applicant shall instead file, at that time, a letter from the
municipality or the County as the case may be, confirming that a Resolution or Ordinance regarding
special circumstances has been requested.
Applications for the TEERM Program must be received by the Assessor's Office on or before
November 30, 2018 to receive consideration.
c.

A copy of the Resolution or letter confirming that a Resolution has been requested, whichever
is filed with the application, will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the
County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the affected districts.

d.

An affidavit of the applicant attesting that all construction, demolition, maintenance or repair
services at the subject property shall only be performed by a contractor or subcontractor who
participates in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship, shall also be submitted with the
Page 14 of 21

 application. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of such affidavit and the filing of
any subsequent supporting documents which establishes credible evidence that any construction,
maintenance or repair service performed at the subject property will be done by a contractor or
subcontractor who participates in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and
registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship. The failure
to file such affidavit and supporting documents within the time established by the Assessor’s
rules shall result in the loss of the incentive for the period relating to the non-filing.
e d. This classification shall continue for a period of 12 years from the date of new construction
(excluding demolition, if any) or substantial rehabilitation was completed and initially assessed,
or in the case of abandoned property, from the date of substantial re-occupancy, or in the case
of incentives granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, from the date of the notice of approval.
f e. Unless it was granted pursuant to the TEERM Program, this incentive may be renewed during
the last year a property is entitled to a ten-percent assessment level pursuant to Section 74-64(11),
if the following requirements are met:
1.

The taxpayer notifies the Assessor's Office of the taxpayer's intent to request renewal of
the incentive from the municipality, or the County Board if the real estate is located in
an unincorporated area;

2.

The municipality in which the real estate is located or the County Board, if the real estate
is located in an unincorporated area, adopts a Resolution expressly stating that the
municipality or County Board, as the case may be, has determined that the industrial or
commercial use of the property is necessary and beneficial to the local economy, and
supports and consents to renewal of the Class 8; and

3.

A copy of that Resolution and a completed renewal application are filed with the
Assessor's Office before the expiration of the ten-percent assessment level period.

4.

Applicant shall submit an affidavit to the Assessor’s Office attesting that, at all times
after the applicant receives and maintains a Class 8 designation, if any construction,
demolition, maintenance or repair service is performed at the subject property, then any
contractors and any subcontractors who perform such service must participate in an
active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United
States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or
subcontractor employs people in a covered occupation.

g f. Class 8 incentives that are granted pursuant to the TEERM Program are not renewable. For all
other Class 8 incentives, the number of renewal periods is not limited as long as the property
continues to apply and meet the requirements for Class 8.
h g. A copy of the request for renewal of the incentive will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to
the Secretary of the County Board for distribution to the members of the County Board from the
affected districts.
i h. If no renewal is obtained, the incentive shall be phased out over the next two years, pursuant
to Section 74-64(11). After expiration of the last incentive period the real estate shall revert to
the applicable classification under this Division.
j i.

The Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this subsection necessary to ensure proper review
of all factors relevant to determine eligibility for the benefits provided under Class 8.

Page 15 of 21

 k j. The certification of an area as in need of substantial revitalization shall expire five years from
the date such certification is granted. The Assessor shall notify the applicant of the date of
expiration of certification one year before the date of the expiration of the certification. Such
certification, pursuant to the same criteria, may be extended for one additional five-year period
subject to reapplication by the appropriate local governing body within the period from one year
to six months prior to the expiration of the initial five-year period.
l k. The Assessor shall provide by rule for the filing of triennial reassessment reports by all Class 8
recipients as to the use of the property and the number of persons employed at the Class 8 site.
A copy of such reports will be forwarded by the Assessor's Office to the Secretary of the County
Board for distribution to
members of the County Board from the affected districts. Failure to file such reports within the
time established by the Assessor's rules shall result in loss of the incentive for the period relating
to the non-filing.
m.

Taxpayers who currently receive a Class 8 incentive shall file with the Assessor’s Office an
affidavit as required under subsection (d) of this Section within 90 days of the enactment that
will be applicable for all future construction, demolition, maintenance or repair services
performed at the subject property as required under subsection (d) of this Section. Failure to
provide the affidavit in a timely manner may result in the loss of the incentive for the period
relating to the non-filing.

***
Sec. 74-70. - Class 8a and 8b designation/assessment class.
(a) Class 8a. Real estate that is used primarily for industrial or commercial purposes, which real estate would
qualify for a Class 8 designation pursuant to Sections 74-62 through 74-64, except for the fact that the
qualifying use of the property prior to application for the incentive does not comply with the definition of
abandoned property provided for in Section 74-62(b), can receive a designation as a Class 8a property so long
as the applicant can show that it has complied with all of the requirements necessary to receive a Class 8
designation per Sections 74-62 through 74-64, except for meeting the definition of abandonment provided for
in Section 74-62(b), but only when the Cook County Board of Commissioners provides a Resolution or
Ordinance in support of such designation absent abandonment.
(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a Resolution or Ordinance in support
of Class 8a designation absent abandonment when:
a.

An applicant who collects or transmits sales tax has obtained from the municipality in which the real
estate is located or the Cook County Board of Commissioners, if the real estate is located in an
unincorporated area, an agreement to abate a portion of the local government's sales tax generated
by the industrial or commercial enterprise located on such real estate and such abatement of sales tax
must cover the period of time for which the applicant would qualify for this Class 8a incentive; and

b.

Applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that due
to national and regional economic conditions beyond its control the industrial or commercial
enterprise has undergone a significant reduction in net operating income of at least 40 percent in the
year it makes application for this incentive as compared to the average net operating income of the
industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three years; and

c.

Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an economic impact
study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that the
ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise is not economically viable and as such it will cease
operations within 60 days of the submission of an eligibility application for Class 8a designation to
Page 16 of 21

 the Cook County Assessor, and thereafter the property will become vacant and unused for an
extended period of time of at least 24 months; and
d.

Applicant provides objective and credible evidence including, but not limited to, an economic impact
study that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
designation as a Class 8a property will allow the industrial or commercial enterprise to be
economically viable and thereby continue its operations so that the industrial or commercial
enterprise can continue to occupy and fully utilize the real estate for an extended period of time.

e.

Applicant must provide credible evidence that, at all times after the applicant receives and maintains
a Class 8 designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair service is performed at
the subject property, then any contractors and any subcontractors who perform such service must
participate in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United
States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor employs
people in a covered occupation.

(2) Such a Resolution or Ordinance must contain:
a.

A finding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that industrial or
commercial enterprise has undergone a significant reduction in net operating income of at least 40
percent in the year it makes application for the incentive as compared to the average net operating
income of the industrial or commercial enterprise in the prior three years; and

b.

A finding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that Class 8a designation
of the property is necessary for the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise to continue its
operations and that without such designation the industrial or commercial enterprise would not be
economically viable causing the property to become vacant and unused; and

c.

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to the
designation of the property as a Class 8a property absent an abandonment requirement; and

d.

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to the
application made to the Cook County Assessor requesting designation as a Class 8a property absent
an abandonment requirement.

(3) When the real estate is located in an incorporated area of the county, and designation as a Class 8a property
is sought using the provisions of this Section, the municipality in which the real estate is located must
provide to the Cook County Assessor a Resolution or Ordinance that contains the following:
a.

A finding by the municipality that it has determined that Class 8a designation of the property is
necessary for the ongoing industrial or commercial enterprise to continue its operations and that
without such designation the industrial or commercial enterprise would not be economically viable
causing the property to become vacant and unused; and

b.

A statement by the municipality that it supports and consents to the action by the Cook County Board
of Commissioners to support designation of the property as a Class 8a property; and

c.

A statement by the municipality that it supports and consents to the Class 8a application to the Cook
County Assessor; and

(4) Real estate receiving a Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be assessed at
the lowest percentage of market value provided for in Section 74-64(12), however the term of the
incentive will be limited to five years only and such Class 8a designation shall not be renewed:
a.

After the initial application has been approved and granted, if the subject real estate receiving the
Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section is sold or the applicant transfers
ownership of any portion of the property at any time prior to the five-year term of the 8a
classification, then the property's Class 8a classification shall be subject to an eligibility review by
the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the municipality, and the Assessor under the procedures
set forth in this Ordinance for the remainder of the five-year term.
Page 17 of 21

 (5) In order for real estate to qualify for a Class 8a designation an eligibility application must be made to the
Cook County Assessor.
(6) Class 8a designation cannot be applied to real estate unless the following has occurred: application is
made to the Cook County Assessor; all required municipal and county Ordinances and Resolutions are
provided to the Cook County Assessor; and the Cook County Assessor determines that the real estate
which is the subject of the application for a Class 8a designation would qualify for designation as a Class
8 property but for the inability to comply with the definition of abandonment pursuant to Section 7462(b).
(7) The Cook County Assessor may adopt rules consistent with this Section to determine eligibility for the
benefits provided under Class 8a.
(8) Upon receipt of an eligibility application for a Class 8a designation, the Cook County Assessor shall
forward such application and any supporting documentation provided with such application to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners or its designee for consideration as to whether the County Board will
provide a Resolution or Ordinance in support of a Class 8a designation absent abandonment.
(9) Real estate receiving a Class 8a designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall not be eligible
for a Class 8a designation for any year prior to the assessment year for which an application for the
designation is made to the Cook County Assessor.
(10) The Cook County Board of Commissioners or its designee may adopt rules consistent with this Section
that may be needed to ensure proper review of information, data and documents submitted in support of
a request to the County Board for a Resolution or Ordinance in support of a Class 8a designation as
provided for in this Section.
(11) Applicants for a Class 8a designation of property can only make such an application for the following
assessment years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and the Cook County Assessor shall not designate
any real estate as Class 8a property for assessment year 2018 or thereafter.
(12) Real estate that receives a designation as a Class 8a incentive property will lose such designation and the
corresponding reduced level of assessment, if the industrial or commercial enterprise located on the
property ceases operations and the subject real estate becomes vacant and unused.
(13) Real estate that receives a designation as a Class 8a incentive property will lose such designation and the
corresponding reduced level of assessment upon termination of the required partial sales tax abatement
by local government.
(14) This Section 74-70 of the Real Estate Classification Ordinance will become effective upon passage.
(b) Class 8b. Real estate and improvements that house inpatient and outpatient hospital based services, where the
property has been acquired for hospital use by a for-profit acquirer unrelated to the not-for-profit disposer,
thereby avoiding Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board discontinuation approval, shall be
considered for a Class 8b designation if it meets the requirements of this Section and the Cook County Board
of Commissioners provides a Resolution or Ordinance in support of such designation.
(1) The Cook County Board of Commissioners may only provide such a Resolution or Ordinance in support
of Class 8b designation when:
a.

The applicant is a hospital, as defined in the Hospital Licensing Act, or an entity that owns the real
property on which a hospital is located, the hospital is licensed by the state, and the abandonment of
the hospital would require the applicant, or the hospital on behalf of which the applicant owns the
real property on which the hospital is located, to obtain a permit or exemption from the State of
Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board pursuant to the Illinois Health Facilities
Planning Act prior to discontinuing hospital operations and to obtain a second permit or exemption
prior to reopening or otherwise reestablishing the hospital after abandonment;

b.

The applicant demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of the
Class 8b designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be retained for
Page 18 of 21

 hospital use with the associated employment benefits relative to industrial or commercial use of the
property;
c.

The subject hospital is located in a zip code which has a ten-percent or greater incidence of families
and/or individuals below the poverty level, as identified by the U.S. Census Bureau's most recent
census; and

d.

The subject hospital employs at least 750 full-time equivalents (full-time equivalent jobs being
defined as total hours worked by all non-full-time employees divided by average annual hours
worked by the full-time employees).

e.

Applicant must provide credible evidence that, at all times after the applicant receives and maintains
a Class 8 designation, if any construction, demolition, maintenance or repair service is performed at
the subject property, then any contractors and any subcontractors who perform such service must
participate in an active apprenticeship and training program approved and registered with the United
States Department of Labor’s Office of Apprenticeship, if the contractor or subcontractor employs
people in a covered occupation.

(2) Such a Resolution or Ordinance must contain:
a.

A finding that the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the applicant
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Cook County Assessor that approval of the Class 8b
designation will materially increase the likelihood that the property will be retained for hospital use;
and

b.

A statement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that it supports and consents to the
designation of the property as a Class 8b property.

(3) When the real estate is located in an incorporated area of the county, and designation as a Class 8b property
is sought using the provisions of this Section, the municipality in which the real estate is located must
provide to the Cook County Assessor a resolution or ordinance that contains the following:
a.

A finding by the corporate authorities of the municipality that the proposed redevelopment
contemplated for the subject hospital or the property on which the hospital sits is necessary and
appropriate and that, without a classification having the impact of this Section, the special
circumstances that exist on the property on which the subject hospital sits including, but not limited
to, the unique requirement that mandates that the subject hospital's operations are continually
maintained without interruption in order for the State of Illinois Health Facilities and Services
Review Board to issue a certificate of need and licensure approval for the continued operation of the
subject hospital and the extraordinary need for the continued operation of the subject hospital within
the applicable region, will not be addressed and the property on which the subject hospital sits will
become vacant and underutilized and cause the continued exasperation of blighted factors within the
municipality and region;

b.

A finding by the corporate authorities of the municipality that a classification having the impact of
this Section is necessary for the redevelopment to occur on the property on which the subject hospital
sits; and

c.

A statement by the corporate authorities of the municipality supporting and consenting to the filing
of an application for a classification having the impact of this Section for the property on which the
subject hospital sits.

(4) Real estate receiving a Class 8b designation pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be assessed at
the lowest percentage of market value and for the term provided for in Section 74-64(12).
(5) In order for real estate to qualify for a Class 8b designation, a Class 8 or Class 8b application must be
made or have been made to the Cook County Assessor. Any application for Class 8 submitted with
required municipal approval after July 1, 2008, for hospital property where the property was acquired for
hospital use by an unrelated for-profit acquirer, avoiding the Health Facilities and Services Review Board
discontinuation approval, shall be reconsidered as an application pursuant to this Section upon supplement
Page 19 of 21

 of such Class 8 application with the additional information required in this Section, if any. Upon receipt
of an application, the Cook County Assessor shall forward such application and any supporting
documentation provided with the application to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for
consideration as to whether the Cook County Board will provide a resolution or ordinance in support of a
Class 8b designation. Real estate receiving a Class 8b designation pursuant to the provisions of this
Section shall be eligible for such designation beginning in the assessment year during which an application
for the classification having the impact of this Section is made to the Cook County Assessor.
(6) Class 8b designation cannot be applied to real estate unless the following has occurred: application is
made or has been made to the Cook County Assessor, and all required municipal and county Ordinances
and Resolutions are provided to the Cook County Assessor.
Effective Date: This ordinance amendment shall be effective immediately upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

16-3196
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
APPROVING COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, on April 13, 2016 the Cook County Board of Commissioners approved Resolution 16-2178
approving Collective Bargaining Agreements for the period of December 1, 2012 through November 30, 2017 with
American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees Council 31 (AFSCME) for support staff in the
Office of the Public Defender (AFSCME 3696); assistant public defenders (AFSCME 3315); caseworkers,
interpreters and investigative personnel in the Offices of the Public Defender, Medical Examiner and Adoption and
Child Custody Advocacy (AFSCME 1767); and Cook County Assessor’s staff (AFSCME 3835); and
WHEREAS, it has been brought to the attention of the Bureau of Human Resources that the Collective
Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook/Assessor and Assessor’s staff (AFSCME 3835) approved on
April 13, 2016 and attached to Resolution 16-2178 was in error; and
WHEREAS, representatives from the Bureau of Human Resources, AFSCME 31, Local 3835 and the Assessor’s
Office have met to rectify any outstanding issues and correct any contractual errors; and
WHEREAS, salary adjustments and general wage increases are reflected in the amended Salary Schedules
included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the County of Cook/ Assessor’s Office and
AFSCME Council 31, Local 3835; and
WHEREAS, AFSCME Council 31, Local 3835 executed the corrected Collective Bargaining Agreement on May
10, 2016.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does herebyapprove
Page 20 of 21

 the attached Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook/Assessor and AFSCME 31, Local
3835 as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources and executed by AFSCME 31, Local 3835 on May 10,
2016.
Legislative History : 5/11/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Labor Committee
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, that this Resolution be
Recommended for Approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo to adjourn the meeting.
The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Vice Chairman Tobolski, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer, García, Moore and
Sims (8)

Absent:

Chairman Murphy (1)

Respectfully submitted,

_________________________________
·

Vice-Chairman

Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com/Calendar.aspx

Page 21 of 21

 