Board of Commissioners of Cook County
118 North Clark Street
Chicago, IL

Journal of Proceedings
Tuesday, December 4, 2018
9:00 AM
Special Meeting for Organization of 2018-2022 Board
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ALMA E. ANAYA
LUIS ARROYO, JR.
SCOTT R. BRITTON
JOHN P. DALEY
DENNIS DEER
BRIDGET DEGNEN
BRIDGET GAINER
BRANDON JOHNSON
BILL LOWRY

DONNA MILLER
STANLEY MOORE
KEVIN B. MORRISON
SEAN M. MORRISON
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
LARRY SUFFREDIN
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI

KAREN A. YARBROUGH
COUNTY CLERK

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

The board met pursuant to the following call:
November 27, 2018
The Honorabl e David Orr Cook
County Clerk
69 West Washington, Blvd. 5th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re:

SPECIAL MEETING NOTICE for December 4, 2018 at 9:00 A.M. in Cook County Building,
118 North Clark Street, Room 569, Chicago, Illinois

Dear Clerk Orr:
Pursuant to the authority vested in me, I hereby call a Special Meeting of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners to be convened on Tuesday, December 4, 2018, at the hour of 9:00 A.M. in the
Cook County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Board Room, Room 569, Chicago, Illinois. At said
meeting, the Board will establish by Ordinance the new Board Rules of Organization and Procedure;
appoint by Resolution the President Pro Tempore and the Chair and Vice Chair of each standing
committee and standing subcommittee; appoint by Resolution the members of each standing committee
and standing subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners; and to appoint an individual to fill the
Record er of Deeds vacancy in accordance 10 ILCS 5/25-11. Please issue the Notice of this Special
Meeting and agenda as required by law.
Very truly yours,
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
COPY OF LETTER SENT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
November 28, 2018
President and Members
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Toni Preckwinkle, President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Tuesday, December 4, 2018 at the
hour of 9:00 A.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois. At said meeting, the Board will establish by Ordinance the new Board Rules of
Organization and Procedure; appoint by Resolution the President Pro Tempore and the Chair and Vice
Chair of each standing committee and standing subcommittee; appoint by Resolution the members of each
standing committee and standing subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners; and to appoint an
individual to fill the Recorder of Deeds vacancy in accordance with 10 ILCS 5/25-11.
Very truly yours,

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

DAVID ORR, County Clerk
* * * * *
The following Legal Notice appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times Newspaper on Friday, November 30, 2018
through Tuesday, December 4, 2018.
LEGAL NOTICE
Toni Preckwinkle, President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Tuesday, December 4, 2018 at the
hour of 9:00 A.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois. At said meeting, the Board will establish by Ordinance the new Board Rules of
Organization and Procedure; appoint by Resolution the President Pro Tempore and the Chair and Vice
Chair of each standing committee and standing subcommittee; appoint by Resolution the members of each
standing committee and standing subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners; and to appoint an
individual to fill the Recorder of Deeds vacancy in accordance with 10 ILCS 5/25-11.
Very truly yours,
DAVID ORR, Cook County Clerk and Clerk
of the Board of the Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois

OFFICIAL RECORD
President Preckwinkle in the chair.
CALL TO ORDER
At 9:00 A.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.
QUORUM
County Karen A. Yarbrough called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Commissioners Anaya, Arroyo, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Gainer, Johnson, Lowry, Miller,
Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (17)

Absent:

None (0)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
3

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver testimony
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3) minutes.
The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of
Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
None.
19-0481
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE JOHN P. DALEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO JR,
ALMA E. ANAYA, SCOTT R. BRITTON, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN,
BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER,
STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
FOR THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
II President of the County Board, Section 2-41 President is hereby amended and reinstated as follows:
Sec. 2-41. - President.
(a)Election. The President of the Cook County Board shall be elected from the County at large
and shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the County. A person seeking election as President of the
County Board may not simultaneously seek election as a member of the Board.
(b) Vacancy in office. In the event of a vacancy in the Office of the President, the President Pro
Tempore shall perform the remainder of the President’s official duties and possess all the rights and powers
of the President until such time as the vacancy is filled. If the vacancy in the office of the President is
caused by the death, resignation, removal from office or other inability to act of the President so elected,
the Board shall within 30 days appoint, by election, one of their number to serve as President.
(1)

If more than 28 months of the unexpired term of the President remain, a special election
shall be held at the next general election to elect a person to serve the unexpired term of
the President. In the case of a special election, the appointed officer shall serve until the
election results are certified and the person elected at the special election is qualified. The
appointed President may remain both a Commissioner and serve as the President until the
next general election.
4

 Board of Commissioners
(2)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

If 28 months or less of the unexpired term remain, the appointed officer shall serve for the
remainder of the term. The appointed President may remain both a Commissioner and serve
as the President until the next general election.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article III County Board, Section 2-71 Definitions is hereby established as follows:
Sec. 2-71. – Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in Article III – County Board of the Cook
County Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section
(a) Board or County Board means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(b) Clerk means the Clerk of the County Board, appointed by the County Clerk.
(c) Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed Cook County Board Commissioner,
and means the same as "member" of the Board.
(d) Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special
committee and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.
(e) Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by this
division.
(f) Majority means a simple majority of those Commissioners present and entitled to vote on a
question.
(g) Majority of those elected means a majority of the total number of Commissioners entitled by
law to be elected to the Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed Commissioners actually
serving in office. So long as 17 Commissioners are entitled to be elected to the Board, a vote of a "majority
of those elected" shall mean nine affirmative votes.
(h) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which
a higher majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those
Commissioners entitled to vote. A vote of "present" shall not be counted in determining the number of
Commissioners voting on a question.
(i) President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(j) Quorum. A majority of those elected (nine Commissioners when board is comprised of
seventeen members) shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Board or a meeting of a committee of
the whole. A majority of Commissioners appointed to any committee, other than a committee of the whole,
shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of such committee or subcommittee.
(k) Secretary means the Secretary to the Board, duly appointed by the President.
5

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(l) Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the
Commissioners.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
III County Board, Division 1 is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-72. – President Pro Tempore.
At the commencement of a term, the President shall nominate and the Board shall by resolution
elect one Commissioner as President Pro Tempore for such term. The President Pro Tempore shall, in the
absence of the President, preside over meetings of the Board. In the event that the President is temporarily
unable to act in performing the remainder of his or her official duties, the President Pro Tempore shall
perform such duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President until such time as the President
is able to perform such duties, or in the event of a vacancy in the Office of the Presidency, until such
vacancy is filled pursuant to Section 2-41(b) of this Code. If the President Pro Tempore shall cease to be a
Commissioner or shall resign from the position of President Pro Tempore, the Board shall appoint another
Commissioner to serve as President Pro Tempore by Resolution for the remainder of the term or a time
certain.
Sec. 2-73. – County Commissioner, Code of conduct.
(a) Each member of the County Board shall:
(1)

Promote public confidence in County government.

(2)

Keep safe all funds and other properties of the County.

(3)

Evaluate all financial decisions so that the best service or product is obtained at a minimal
cost without sacrificing quality and fiscal responsibility.

(4)

Maintain a positive public image to pass constant public scrutiny.

(5)

Inject the prestige of the office into everyday dealings with the public, employees, and
associates.

(6)

Conduct and perform the duties of the office diligently and promptly dispose of the
business of the County.

(7)

Strive to bring new business and Industry into the County and diligently work towards
maintaining all existing business and industry.

(8)

Maintain a respectful attitude toward employees, other public officials and associates.

(9)

Effectively and efficiently work with all governmental agencies, political subdivisions and
other organizations within the County in order to further the interest of the County.

(10)

Properly administer the affairs of the County.
6

 Board of Commissioners

(11)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

Faithfully comply with the laws of the land and regulations of the County and impartially
apply them to everyone.

(b) Each member of the County Board shall not use the elected/or appointed position to:
(1)

Improperly influence or attempt to influence other officials to act in the member's own
favor.

(2)

Accept anything of value from any source which is offered to influence the member's action
as a public official.

(3)

Engage in outside interests that are not compatible with the impartial and objective
performance of the member's duties.

Sec. 2-74. - County Commissioner, Vacancy in Office.
(a) District committee of same political party to appoint. If a vacancy occurs in the Office of
Commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the appropriate district committee of the
political party in the County Board District of which the incumbent was a candidate at the time of the
candidate's election. If the incumbent Commissioner was appointed to the position, then such vacancy shall
be filled by appointment of the appropriate district committee of the political party in the County Board
District which appointed the incumbent. The appointee shall be of the same political party that the
incumbent Commissioner was at the time of election or appointment.
(b) Composition of district committee. The district committee of a County Board District shall
consist of the committeemen of each ward or township of the appropriate political party of the incumbent
commissioner when elected contained in whole or in part within the County Board District. In making
appointments under this Section, each committeeman of the appropriate district committee shall be entitled
to one vote for each vote that was received, in that portion of the County Board District which the
committeeman represent on the committee, by the Commissioner whose seat is vacant at the general
election at which that Commissioner was elected to the seat which has been vacated (or the Commissioner's
elected predecessor, if the Commissioner whose seat is vacant was appointed) and a majority of the total
number of votes received in such general election by the Commissioner whose seat is vacant is required for
the appointment of the successor.
(c) Written appointment filed with County Clerk. Appointments made under this Section shall be in
writing and shall be signed by members of the district committee whose total votes are sufficient to make
the appointments. Such appointments shall be filed with the County Clerk.
(d) Duration. An appointment made under this Section shall be for the remainder of the term.
Sec. 2-75. - Clerk of Board; printed proceedings of County Board.
(a) Designation by County Clerk. The Cook County Clerk shall perform, or designate an individual
to perform, the function of Clerk of the Board. The Clerk of the Board shall take the roll of the members at
every meeting of the Board when requested.
7

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(b) Keeping Record of Proceedings. The Clerk of the Board shall, in conjunction with the Secretary
to the Board, record the proceedings of the County Board.
(c) Production of Journal of Proceedings. The Clerk of the Board is hereby, instructed to print or
cause to be printed all the proceedings of the County Board had, done or enacted at each and every meeting,
general and special, thereof, in such manner that the printed proceedings shall be a full and perfect record
of all the acts and doings of the County Board at each and every of its regular and special meetings and
each and every of the sessions thereof.
(d) Printing of Proceedings. The printed proceedings of each meeting or session, as above
provided, shall be submitted to the County Board for its approval at the first session immediately succeeding
the meeting or session at which such proceedings were had. The printed proceedings, when approved by
the County Board, shall stand for and be the official record of the proceedings of the County Board and
shall be duly certified as such by the Clerk of the Board.
(e) Approval of Journal of Proceedings. In accordance with Public Act 96 1473, the Journal of
Proceedings shall be approved within the time allowed by the law. To achieve this requirement of the law,
the following procedures shall be followed:
(1)

Draft copies of the Journal of Proceedings shall be circulated to the President and the Board
within 21 days of the meeting for review and correction.

(2)

All corrections shall be made to the Clerk of the Board in writing within 48 hours of
receiving the Draft Copy of the Journal of Proceedings.

(3)

A standing meeting of the Committee on Rules and Administration, shall be convened prior
to regularly scheduled Board Meetings to approve the Journal with all corrections.

(4)

The Board shall approve the Report of the Committee on Rules and Administration at the
subsequent Board Meeting.

Sec. 2-76. - Secretary to the Board of Commissioners
(a) Agenda Assembly. The Secretary to the Board shall be responsible for assisting the President
and Members of the Board in the assembly of the agendas, notices and reports for the meetings of the Board,
its committees and subcommittees.
(b) Electronic Database of Board Items. The Secretary to the Board shall maintain an electronic
legislative database of all proceedings of the Board, its committees and subcommittees. The Secretary shall
assign a unique file identification number to items heard by the Board, its committees and subcommittees
and utilize the number in the database.
(c) Creation and maintenance of Audio and Video Record. The Secretary shall be responsible for
coordinating the creation and maintenance of an audio and/or video record of all Board proceedings.
Creation and maintenance of an audio and video record of the meetings includes any production,
publication, reproduction, broadcast, live stream, digital archive or any other method of making such
8

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

records available to the public in part or in whole. The Secretary shall retain all recordings and make them
available upon request, with the exception of closed session recordings protected in accordance with the
Illinois Open Meetings Act. Members of the public shall be allowed to listen to recordings of open meetings
during regular office hours except when the recordings are in immediate use by persons exercising official
County duties. The Secretary may require a notice in writing to be submitted 48 hours prior to the time
when the recordings are desired for viewing. In accordance with the Freedom of Information Act, any
member of the public wishing to purchase a copy of a recording of an open meeting may do so upon
payment to the County of the cost of its reproduction.
(d) Departmental Cooperation with Secretary. County departments which may aid in the creation
and maintenance of an audio and video record of the Board proceedings shall provide their cooperation to
the Secretary to the Board in the furtherance of the Secretary's responsibilities as enumerated in subsection
(b).
(e) Prohibited Use of Recorded Proceedings. No portion of any videotape of the proceedings of the
County Board, or of any committee or subcommittee thereof, prepared or taken by or for the County shall
be produced, manufactured, sold, distributed or broadcast for commercial use or sponsorship, where such
commercial use or sponsorship could reasonably be expected to lead to false or misleading communication
or any unlawful activity in relation to the content of the videotape. Use of the videotape as part of a bona
fide news program or public affairs documentary program is not prohibited. Certified copies of videotaped
recordings of meetings of the County Board or of any committee or subcommittee thereof, shall be available
for distribution pursuant to rules and procedures as may be adopted by the County Board.
(f) Penalties for Prohibited Use. Any person who violates the videotaping provisions of this Section
shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00 for each violation.
Section 2-77. - Fiscal impact review.
(a) Short title. This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Fiscal Impact Review
Ordinance.
(b) Impact note required.
(1)

Any ordinance, resolution, motion, contract approval, or any amendment thereto
(collectively and individually "measure"), except those measures making a direct
appropriation or approving a contract for a specified amount to be expended within one
fiscal year, the purpose or effect of which is (i) to expend any County funds or to increase
or decrease the revenues of the County at a projected amount that exceeds $150,000; (ii)
to increase or add new long-term debt authorization or would require, through
appropriation, the use of bond financed funds of which the dollar amount of bonds or other
evidences of indebtedness which are either secured or not secured by the full faith and
credit of the County; (iii) to increase or decrease the fiscal liability of the County at a
projected amount that exceeds $150,000; or (iv) to sell or let any County asset, including
revenue streams from the asset, if the anticipated revenue from the sale or lease of the asset
is greater than $5,000,000,000, may have prepared for it a brief explanatory statement or
note ("fiscal note") which shall include a reliable estimate of the probable impact of such
measure upon the County's annual budget.
9

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(2)

If an ordinance authorizes capital expenditures or appropriates funds for capital
expenditures, a fiscal note may be requested and such fiscal note shall specify by year any
principal and interest payments required to finance such capital expenditures. In addition,
increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no event shall a fiscal note be
required to estimate out-year costs for more than five years.

(3)

If an ordinance authorizes the issuance of long-term or the issuance of bonds and a fiscal
note is requested, the fiscal note shall include a brief explanatory statement or note which
shall include a reliable estimate of the probable impact of such measure upon the finances
of the County Government.

(c) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing the fiscal note.
(1)

The chief sponsor of the measure, the President or any member of the Board may request
in writing, promptly after the introduction of the measure before the County Board, that
the Chief Financial Officer, or any person within the office of the Chief Financial Officer
whom the Chief Financial Officer may designate, prepare a fiscal note setting forth the
information specified in this Section regarding any measure.

(2)

Following the request for a fiscal note, any prepared fiscal note shall be provided to each
member of the County Board and the County Board President at least 72 hours prior to the
consideration of the measure by the Board of Commissioners or applicable Committee,
provided that (i) the written request for a fiscal note is made at least fourteen business days
prior to the consideration of the measure; and (ii) the relevant department or departments
timely provide information requested by the Chief Financial Officer sufficient for the
production of the fiscal note.

(3)

If a fiscal note has been requested, no measure may be called for a final vote by the
County Board until delivery of the fiscal note according to the provisions of this Section.

(4)

In connection with the preparation of the fiscal note, all County officials and employees
shall upon request cooperate with the Chief Financial Officer in providing information.

(5)

The County Board shall authorize the drafting of any rules of regulations which shall be
subject to County Board approval, to ensure compliance with this Section.

(d) Form and content.
(1)

The fiscal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide
as reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible under the circumstances. The fiscal note
shall include both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the
long-range effect of the measure, and an estimate in dollars of the anticipated change in
revenue, expenditures, fiscal liability or debt impact under the provisions of the measure.

(2)

If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal
note shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate
10

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

can be given. A brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the fiscal
note figures, including assumptions involved, shall be included.
(e) Preparation of fiscal note.
(1)

No comment or opinion shall be included in the fiscal note with regard to the merits of the
measure for which the fiscal note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical defects
may be noted and comment as to how the measure may impact the overall financial health
of the County may be noted.

(2)

The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which
the fiscal note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of
personnel, materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The fiscal note shall also include such
other information as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated by
the County Board with respect to the preparation of such fiscal notes.

(3)

The original of the fiscal note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial
Officer or such person as the Chief Financial Officer may designate.

(f) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a fiscal note is prepared for any measure
shall not preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any official or
authorized employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be heard
in support of or in opposition to the measure.
Sec. 2-81-100. – Reserved
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
III County Board, Division 2 is hereby amended and reinstated in its entirety as follows as follows:
DIVISION 2. - RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
Sec. 2-101. - Purpose.
(a) The provisions of this division shall constitute the rules of the Board.
(b) It is the purpose of this division:
(1)

To provide appropriate procedures and organization for the Board of Commissioners to
conduct its business in an orderly and efficient manner;

(2)

To protect the right of all Commissioners to participate fully in the legislative process;

(3)

To foster accountability in County government; and

(4)

To promote openness and maximize participation in the business and affairs of the Board.

Sec. 2-102. - Interpretation, force and effect.
11

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(a) Applicability. The meetings and actions of the Board, including all of its committees, shall be
governed by this division.
(b) Effect of State law. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this division, this division
supersedes all provisions of Illinois statute to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency, except for statutes
that, by their terms, specifically limit home rule units pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(g) or 6(h) of the
1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois.
(c) Effective date. This division shall be in full force and effect upon adoption, and shall remain in
full force and effect except as amended in accordance herewith, or until superseded by new rules adopted
as part of the organization of a newly constituted Board at the commencement of a term.
(d) Interpretation. This division shall be interpreted and applied to foster the goals and purposes
set forth in Section 2-101. This division is to be construed in accordance with the customary American
usage and meaning of parliamentary terms and expressions and the plain meaning of the ordinary words
appearing herein. In case of ambiguous application, this division shall be applied in a manner that fosters
openness, accountability and fairness in the operation of the Board.
(e) Adoption of rules. At the commencement of a term, the Board may adopt new rules of
organization and procedure by ordinance setting forth such rules in their entirety and repealing these rules.
Such ordinance must be adopted by a majority of those elected. Rules so adopted shall supersede these
rules.
(f) Rules for committee meetings. The rules of procedure for all committee, subcommittee and
special committee meetings shall be the same as for Board meetings, except that committees composed of
less than the entire Board shall require only a majority of the committee members for a quorum.
(g) Amendment or suspension of rules. Any provision of this division may be temporarily
suspended by majority vote, upon motion of any Commissioner specifying the rule to be suspended.
Sec. 2-103. – Quorum required for meetings of the Board, its Committees and Subcommittees.
(a) A quorum must be present at any meeting of the Board, its committees or subcommittees to
conduct business except for those circumstances detailed in this subsection.
(b) Should a quorum not be present at any meeting of the Board, the meeting shall stand in recess
until a quorum shall attend. The Commissioners present shall be competent to adjourn, receive public
testimony but take no formal action and/or recess the meeting to a date certain.
(c) Should a quorum not be present at a committee or subcommittee meeting of the Board, the
Commissioners present shall be competent to adjourn, receive public testimony but take no formal action
and/or recess the meeting to a date certain.
Sec. 2-104. – Majority vote to determine questions at meetings of the Board, its Committees and
Subcommittees.
12

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which a higher majority is
required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those Commissioners entitled to
vote. A vote of "present" shall not be counted in determining the number of Commissioners voting on a
question.
Sec. 2-105. – Prior notice to public for meetings of the Board, its Committees and Subcommittees.
(a) Minimum time requirement for notice of meeting. No less than 72 hours before any meeting, not
including Special Board or Emergency meetings, notice and an agenda for such meeting shall be provided
by the Clerk for meetings of the Board or the Secretary for meetings of a Committee or Subcommittee.
(b) Minimum time requirement for New Items Additional (“New”) items added to a previously
issued agenda must be posted at least 48 hours in advance for the Board, committee or subcommittee to
take final action on the matter. New items posted with less than 48 hours' notice must be withdrawn,
deferred, or referred to committee.
(c) Distribution of notice and agendas of the meeting. The Clerk or Secretary as required shall
distribute to the President, all Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of meetings,
shall be post in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to be held and shall
be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary. In addition, notices and agendas of all meetings
shall be posted on a County owned website.
Sec. 2-106. – Public Testimony at meetings of the Board, its Committees and Subcommittees.
The Board encourages public participation in the legislative process. The following rules shall
apply at any meeting of the Board and its committees at which public comment or testimony is taken:
(a) Public testimony at all meetings. Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be
permitted at all meetings of the Board, its committees and subcommittees.
(b) Authorization to speak. Authorization as a public speaker shall be granted to those individuals
who have submitted in writing, their name, municipality of residence, subject matter, and organization (if
any) to the Secretary.
(c) Public comment period. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver
testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda, or at the discretion of the chair, but prior to final action
by the meeting body as is practicable.
(d) Germane subject matter encouraged. Public testimony should be germane to a specific item(s)
on the meeting agenda. To preserve order and decorum and in the interest of efficiency, the presiding officer
may impose subject matter limits on public comment or testimony.
(e) Time limit for public speakers. During their testimony, each public speaker may have up to three
minutes. The Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Responses to inquiries of the public speaker by the presiding officer or members shall not count
towards any time limit. With leave, the presiding officer or members may extend a public speaker’s time
as desired.
13

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(f) Prohibited behavior for public speakers. Public speaker shall not use vulgar, abusive or otherwise
inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item
that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from
the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
(g) Disruptions of meetings prohibited. Disruptions of meetings are prohibited. Disruptions include,
but are not limited to:
(1)

Speech by an individual after expiration of the time allotted for the speaker's public
comment or testimony;

(2)

Speech by an individual that is not germane to a specific item or items on the meeting
agenda;

(3)

Speech by an individual who has not been recognized by the presiding officer for public
comment or testimony, who is speaking in a volume louder than a low, conversational level
appropriate for communication between persons seated next to each other in the chamber,
or whose speech is audible by others; or

(4)

Holding or placing a banner or sign during a meeting in a way that may endanger other
individuals or that obstructs the free passage or view of others attending or viewing the
meeting.

(5)

Verbal comments must be conducted in respectful speech with no personal attacks.

(6)

If an individual engages in disruption of the meeting, including, but not limited to, any of
the actions described above, the presiding officer may: rule the individual out of order,
direct the individual to cease the activity and impose other reasonable conditions for the
individual's continued presence at the meeting. If the individual does not immediately
comply with the presiding officer's order, the presiding officer may direct the removal of
the individual from the meeting. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, any
individual ordered to be removed from a meeting is excluded from returning to that
meeting, unless the decision of the presiding officer is overruled by a majority vote of those
members in attendance. Any two members may place before the body the question of
whether to permit the individual to return to the same meeting.

(7)

If an individual is removed either from two or more committee meetings within a 15-day
period or from two or more consecutive meetings of the Board, the Board President or
Committee Chairperson may exclude the individual from participation in public comment
or testimony periods at future Board or committee meetings.
a.

The Board President or Committee Chairperson shall notify the individual in
writing of the type of exclusion, the specific reasons for the exclusion and the
specific terms and length of the exclusion.

14

 Board of Commissioners

(8)

(9)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

b.

The notice of exclusion shall advise that the individual may submit written
comments to the Clerk for distribution to the Board members at future public
comment or testimony periods.

c.

The notice of exclusion shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall post it on the door
to the Board chambers and on the Board's web page, provide a copy of the notice
to Board members and mail the notice to the individual's last known address, if
any. The notice is effective when posted. The exclusion order shall remain posted
on the door to the chambers for the duration of the exclusion period.

In determining the scope and length of an individual's exclusion, the Board President or
Committee Chairperson may consider the seriousness of the disruptions to the orderly
conduct of the meeting, the number of disruptions in which the individual participated and
other reasons deemed relevant by the President or Committee Chairperson.
a.

The Board President or Committee Chairperson may issue an exclusion from
future participation in public comment or testimony periods for up to 28 calendar
days.

b.

At the next regular meeting of the Board, following the filing and posting of the
exclusion notice, the exclusion order may be overruled or modified by a majority
vote of those Commissioners in attendance. Any two members may place before
the body the question of whether to overrule or modify the exclusion decision.

Any individual excluded from participation in future public comment or testimony periods
may appeal the exclusion by submitting a written appeal to the Clerk within five calendar
days after the exclusion notice is posted. The Clerk shall distribute copies of the appeal to
all Board members. The Board shall consider the appeal at the next regularly scheduled
Board meeting if any two members place it before the body. The individual's exclusion
from public comment or testimony periods shall remain in effect during the Board's
consideration of the appeal.

Sec. 2-107. - Board of Commissioners; meetings of the Board.
(a) Meetings, Types of
(1)

Regular meetings. The Board shall hold regular meetings pursuant to an annual calendar
adopted by resolution of the Board. All regular meetings shall be held at the County Seat,
in the Board Room of the County Office Building, unless another place within the County
shall be designated by the President or Board.

(2)

Special meetings. It shall be the duty of the President to call special meetings of the Board
whenever the President believes such meetings are necessary. The President must give no
less than 48 hours' advance written notice of such special meetings to the Commissioners
and to the public. All special meetings shall be held at the County Seat, in the Board Room
of the County Office Building, unless another place within the County shall be designated.
15

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

a.

Special meetings shall also be held whenever requested by at least one-third of the
Commissioners (six Commissioners when board is comprised of seventeen
members). At least 48 hours' advance written notice of such special meetings shall
be given to the remaining Commissioners and the public.

b.

All notices of special meetings must include an agenda for such meeting, and such
meeting shall be limited to the subjects and items specified in the call of the
meeting. The notice of the call of the meeting shall be read at the beginning of the
meeting.

(3)

Emergency meetings. In the event that the President states that an emergency exists, the
President may call a special meeting, providing 24 hours' advance written notice to the
Commissioners and to the public, unless not reasonable under the circumstances. In such
case notice shall be given as soon as practicable. All emergency meetings shall be held at
the County Seat, in the County Office Building, unless another place within the County
shall be designated by the President or Board.

(4)

Cancellation of meetings. A regular or special meeting may be cancelled by the President
by providing no less than 24-hour advance written notice that said meeting has been
cancelled to the Commissioners and to the public.

(b) Presiding officer. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall generally
perform the duties customarily performed by a presiding officer. In the absence of the President, or during
the temporary inability of the President to act, the President Pro Tempore shall preside at meetings of the
Board. In the absence of the President and the President Pro Tempore, the Chairman of the Finance
Committee shall preside at meetings of the Board.
(c) Floor privileges.
(1)

During all meetings of the Board, access to the floor shall be limited to the following
persons, except pursuant to leave granted by the Board:
a.

The President, Clerk, Secretary, Parliamentarian and Sergeant-at-Arms;

b.

Commissioners;

c.

Other elected Cook County officers;

d.

Former Commissioners;

e.

Staff of the Clerk or Secretary;

f.

Staff of the President;

g.

Staff of the Commissioner

16

 Board of Commissioners
(2)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

At the direction of the President or at the request of any Commissioner, the floor shall be
cleared of staff. At the request of any Commissioner, unauthorized persons shall be ordered
removed from the floor.

(d) Decorum.
(1)

The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of order in
preference to other Commissioners, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to
appeal.

(2)

In case of any disturbances or disorderly conduct the presiding officer shall have the power
to require the chamber to be cleared.

(e) Sergeant-at-Arms. The President may, with the advice and consent of the Board, appoint a
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Board, who shall preserve order and obey the directions of the Board and of the
presiding officer. The Sergeant-at-Arms shall be removable at the will of the President or pursuant to written
petition, filed with the Clerk, by a majority of those elected.
(f) Recognition for debate. A Commissioner desiring to obtain the floor shall address the presiding
officer. If two or more Commissioners shall properly request recognition, the presiding officer shall
recognize the one who first spoke. A Commissioner shall not proceed with remarks until recognized and
named by the presiding officer. In debate, a Commissioner shall confine them self to the question before
the Board, avoid personalities, and in general observe all parliamentary rules pertaining to orderly
procedure and decorum in debate. The President and all Commissioners shall be given a full opportunity to
participate in the debate on all debatable questions, except when the Board has called the previous question.
(g) Debate. No Commissioner shall speak longer than a total of ten minutes on the same question,
without leave of the Board. Responses by witnesses and County staff to questions of a Commissioner shall
not be counted against the speaking time allotted to such Commissioner. The proponent of the item under
consideration, or the Chairman of a committee whose report is under consideration, as the case may be,
shall have the right to open and close debate.
(h) Agendas.
(1)

Board meeting agenda. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered
at the meeting, except for items to be included in the consent calendar as set forth in
subsection (3) of this Section. Material pertinent to an item on a Board agenda shall be
supplied, along with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With
the exception of materials that are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also
be available to the public in the office of the Secretary.
a.

Items may be placed on an agenda not later than noon of the day previous to the
day on which an agenda is required to be distributed. This subsection shall not
apply to items reported to the Board by any of its committees of the whole.

b.

Items may be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the President or any
Commissioner. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an ordinance
17

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

or resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Committee reports shall be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the Chair
of the committee. Items may be placed on the agenda of a committee meeting by
a Commissioner who is a member of the committee or the President, in his ex
officio capacity, provided that such item has been referred to the committee by the
Board.
c.

No issuance of any debt instrument which pledges the full faith and credit of the
County shall be the subject of final action by the Board of Commissioners unless
it has been preceded by at least one public hearing on the prospective matter by the
Finance Committee. Notification of such hearing shall be the responsibility of the
Finance Committee.

d.

Departmental reports, including, but not limited to, reports required by ordinance
or resolution, submitted for approval to any item on an agenda of a Board or
committee meeting shall be distributed or made available, either by electronic mail
or the legislative document management system, to the President and
Commissioners no later than 5:00 p.m. on the day the Board agenda is posted,
unless the items are solely referred to a committee for later action.

(2)

New items agenda. The Secretary shall prepare a new items agenda to be issued subsequent
to the issuance of the Board agenda for a regular meeting. Items may be placed on the
agenda by the President or by Commissioners. Where the President or a Commissioner(s)
introduces an ordinance or resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such
ordinance or resolution. Each communication, motion, resolution, or ordinance, after being
read by the Clerk, may be acted upon immediately by the Board, or referred to committee,
as ordered by the Board subject to the "Prior notice to public" provisions of this division.

(3)

Consent Calendar agenda. The Consent Calendar is a compilation of proposed resolutions
concerning deaths, anniversaries, and congratulations for notable achievements. Only
proposed resolutions conforming to this description may be submitted to the Secretary for
inclusion on the Consent Calendar, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare the
Consent Calendar for the Board. Proposed resolutions on the Consent Calendar shall be
part of a motion to approve the Consent Calendar in its entirety. Any item on the Consent
Calendar may be removed by a motion, seconded and approved, and shall then be subject
to the provisions of this division as provided herein.

(i) Order of business.
(1)

At each regular meeting of the Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed by
the Board) is as follows:
a.

Public testimony.

b.

New business.

c.

Committee items requiring board action.
18

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(2)

All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding officer,
without debate, subject to appeal.

(3)

Meetings of the Board may commence with a prayer or invocation and the Pledge of
Allegiance.

(4)

The County Board shall break for lunch from Noon to 12:45PM or as soon as is practical
thereafter on days of the Meeting of the Board of Commissioners, Committees, and
Subcommittees.

(j) Submission of ordinances, resolutions and motions.
(1)

(2)

All ordinances, resolutions, or motions, except motions of procedure, shall be submitted in
writing by the President or a Commissioner and then may be read by the Clerk at the
direction of the presiding officer or by leave of the Board. Each ordinance, resolution or
motion, except motions of procedure, shall be numbered by the Secretary to the Cook
County Board of Commissioners in a method that includes:
a.

The last two numbers of the year in which the ordinance, resolution or motion,
except motions of procedure, was introduced; and

b.

A number that represents the chronological order.

After an ordinance, resolution or motion has been stated by the presiding officer or read by
the Clerk, it shall be deemed the property of the Board and may be withdrawn at any time
before final action by leave of the Board.

(k) Amendments or substitutes. Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any
meeting of the Board shall be posted by the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of the meeting at
which the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or substitute, the Secretary shall
immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the President, all Commissioners and all news media
that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the
location where the meeting is to be held, and shall be made available to the public in the office of the
Secretary. This rule may be waived for technical amendments or emergencies.
(l) Voting and roll call.
(1)

When a question is put to the Board, every Commissioner present shall vote thereon, unless
excused by the Board or unless the Commissioner is personally interested therein and
declares a personal conflict of interest.

(2)

Any commissioner may request a roll call upon any question shall be taken and entered in
the Journal of Proceedings, but a roll call shall not be taken unless called for prior to, during
or immediately after any vote on the question.

19

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(3)

A roll call once ordered shall not be interrupted. When a roll call has commenced, all debate
on the question before the Board shall be deemed concluded. During the taking of the roll
call, Commissioners shall respond to the calling of their names by answering "yea," "nay,"
or "present" and shall be allowed one minute to explain their votes at that time.

(4)

When a roll call vote of the Board results in an equal number of "yea" votes and an equal
number of "nay" votes, the President of the Board of Commissioners may cast a vote on
the question before the Board. The President's vote may be in the affirmative, negative or
present. The President, when casting the deciding vote on an issue before the Board, may
explain one's vote in the same manner as a regular voting member of the Board.

(m) Division of questions. If any question presented contains several separable propositions, a
demand by any Commissioner or the President to "divide the question" shall be in order.
(n) Appeal from a ruling of the chair. Any Commissioner may appeal to the Board, committee or
subcommittee from a ruling of the Chair. The Commissioner making the appeal may briefly state the reason
for the appeal, and the Chair may briefly explain the ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, "Shall the
decision of the Chair be sustained?" If a majority of the Commissioners present, and entitled to vote, vote
"nay," the decision of the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained. If sustained, the ruling
of the Chair shall be final.
(o) Personal privilege. The right of the President or a Commissioner to address the Board, a
committee or subcommittee on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which the
President's or Commissioner's integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
(p) Special order of business. Any item before the Board, committee or subcommittee and
referenced in an agenda provided to the President, the Commissioners and the public in accordance with
these rules may be set down as a special order of business at a time certain unless a majority of the
Commissioners present object.
(q) Entry of ordinances, resolutions or motions in journal. In all cases where an ordinance,
resolution or motion is entered in the Journal, the name of the Commissioner(s) moving and seconding the
same shall be entered also.
(r) Robert's Rules of Order. The rules of parliamentary practice set forth in the most recent revision
of "Robert's Rules of Order" by Henry M. Robert III et al. shall govern the Board in all cases in which they
are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this division.
(s) Motion to adjourn. A motion to adjourn is always in order except:
(1)

When a Commissioner has the floor.

(2)

When the roll is being called or the Commissioners are voting.

(3)

When the previous motion was a motion to adjourn.
20

 Board of Commissioners
(4)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

When the "previous question" has been ordered.

(t) Putting and ordering the previous question. The "previous question" shall be put as follows:
"Shall the main question be now put?" If carried by a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners present and
entitled to vote, the "previous question" shall be ordered. An order for the "previous question" shall end all
debate, and bring the Board to a direct vote upon the options before the Board in the order of their
precedence.
(u) Motion to reconsider.
(1)

A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same meeting, or at the first
regular meeting held thereafter, but not after the matter has become law.

(2)

A motion for reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall
not be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.

(3)

A motion to reconsider must be made by a Commissioner who voted on the prevailing side
of the question to be reconsidered.

(4)

This subsection does not apply to motions to override vetoes.

Sec. 2-108. - Veto by President and reconsideration of ordinances, resolutions, motions
(a) Veto by President triggers automatic reconsideration. Upon the return to the Clerk by the
President of any or a portion of any ordinance, resolution or motion adopted by said Board, the vote by
which the same was adopted shall be reconsidered by said Board as to so much thereof as may have been
vetoed.
(b) Automatic placement on next regular meeting agenda. If the President vetoes any Ordinance or
Resolution or other item, the Clerk shall place the veto message and the corresponding ordinance or
resolution or other item on the agenda of the next regular meeting.
(c) Override of Veto by President. If, after such reconsideration, three-fifths of all the members of
the Board shall agree to adopt the same by yeas and nays, to be entered on the journal, the same shall take
effect notwithstanding the President may have refused to approve thereof.
Sec. 2-109. – Committees, generally.
(a) Committees. The committees of the Board shall be comprised of the following, except that
subcommittees may not create subcommittees:
(1)

Standing committees and their standing subcommittees as created by resolution of the
Board;

(2)

Committees and subcommittees as created by resolution of the Board;

(3)

Committees and subcommittees as created by ordinance of the Board;
21

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(4)

Special committees created by Board resolution;

(5)

Special subcommittees created by standing committees or by special committees or by
resolution; and

(6)

Special committees and subcommittees created by ordinance of the Board.

(b) Meetings of committees and subcommittees.
(1)

Committees and subcommittees shall hold meetings pursuant to a request of the
Chairperson of the committee or subcommittee and notice and agenda prepared by the
Secretary. Meetings shall be held at the County Seat, in the Board Room of the County
Building, unless another place within the County shall be designated by the Chairperson.

(2)

A committee or subcommittee meeting may be cancelled by the Chairperson by providing
no less than 24 hours' advance written notice that said meeting has been cancelled to the
Commissioners and to the public.

(3)

On a day with a scheduled meeting of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
of Commissioners, no committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners may be
held until all meetings or committees of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
of Commissioners have adjourned.

(c) Notice and agendas. The notice and agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be
considered at the meeting. Material pertinent to an item on a committee or subcommittee agenda shall be
supplied, along with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the exception of
materials that are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the public in the
office of the Secretary.
(1)

Notwithstanding any other rules governing origination of items on the Board agenda,
including subsection (o) of this Section, the following items types are permitted for origin
with their respective committees: Litigation Pending; Recommendations of the Zoning
Board of Appeals; Journals of Proceedings; Court Ordered Payments; Workers
Compensations Claims; Subrogation Recoveries; Self-Insurance Claims; Proposed
Settlements; Patient Arrestee Claims; Employee Injury Compensation Claims; Revenue
Report; and the Cook County Health And Hospitals System Monthly Report.

(2)

Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of a committee
or subcommittee shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of
the meeting at which the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or
substitute, the Secretary shall immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the
President, all Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of meetings
and it shall be posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the
meeting is to be held, and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary.
This rule may be waived for technical amendments or emergencies.
22

 Board of Commissioners
(3)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

Notwithstanding any action to be undertaken by committees or subcommittees pursuant to
this Section, only the Board may take final action on any item referred to a committee or
subcommittee. Any item contained on a committee or subcommittee agenda, as properly
noticed pursuant to subsection (f) of this Section, shall also be referenced on the next
regularly scheduled Board Meeting Agenda under the Committee Items Requiring Board
Action for purposes of consideration and possible action by the Board. If a properly noticed
item contained on a committee or subcommittee agenda is not included in the Committee
Items Requiring Board Action section of a Board Meeting Agenda, the Secretary to the
Board of Commissioners may include that item in an errata and the Board of
Commissioners may consider the item as if it were properly noticed.

(d) Membership and officers of standing committees.
(1)

At the commencement of each term, the members of each standing committee and standing
subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution adopted by a majority of those
elected.

(2)

At the commencement of each term, the Chair and Vice-Chair of each standing committee
and standing subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution of the Board
adopted by a majority of those elected.

(3)

The President shall be an ex officio member of all committees.

(4)

Membership and officers of standing committees may be amended by a resolution of the
Board adopted by a majority of those elected.

(e) Authority to call meetings. The Chair of a committee or subcommittee shall have the authority
to call and preside at meetings of such committee or subcommittee. In the absence of the Chair, the ViceChair shall perform the functions of the Chair.
(f) Vacancies, Committee Chairs and Committee Members.
(1)

A vacancy on a committee, or in the Chair or Vice-Chair position on a committee, shall be
created when a member resigns from such position or ceases to be a Commissioner.
Resignations shall be made in writing to the Secretary, who shall promptly notify the
President and all Commissioners.

(2)

Vacancies on committees or in the positions of Chair or Vice-Chair shall be filled by
appointment by the same appointing authority as the initial appointments to such
committee. In the case of committee appointments made by the Board, the Board shall fill
vacancies by resolution. In the case of vacancies on special subcommittees that were
created by committees, the parent committee shall fill the vacancy by motion.

(g) Participation in debate. Any Commissioner, regardless of whether a Chair, Vice-Chair or
member of the committee, and the President shall be afforded the courtesy of participating in debate on any
item before a committee.
23

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(h) Special committees and subcommittees. The resolution or motion creating a special committee
or special subcommittee shall specify the subject matter of the special committee or subcommittee and the
number of members to be appointed thereto, and may specify a reporting date during the term in which
event the special committee or subcommittee shall be abolished as of such date. Unless an earlier date is
specified by resolution or motion, special committees and subcommittees shall expire at the end of the term.
(i) Standing committees. The standing committees, the standing subcommittees and the number of
members to be appointed to each (including Chair and Vice-Chair, but excluding ex officio members) are
as follows:
(1)

Audit, seven members. (The County Auditor and Chief Financial Officer are ex officio,
nonvoting members of the Audit Committee.)

(2)

Asset Management, nine members.

(3)

Business and Economic Development, nine members.

(4)

Contract Compliance, nine members.

(5)

Criminal Justice, Committee of the Whole.

(6)

Environment and Sustainability, seven members.

(7)

Finance, Committee of the Whole, with the following subcommittees with the number of
members indicated:
a.

Litigation, seven members.

b.

Tax Delinquency, five members.

c.

Workers' Compensation, five members.

(8)

Health and Hospitals, Committee of the Whole.

(9)

Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Committee of the Whole.

(10)

Human Relations, seven members.

(11)

Labor, nine members.

(12)

Law Enforcement, seven members.

(13)

Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations, Committee of the Whole.

(14)

Pension, seven members.

(15)

Transportation, Committee of the Whole.
24

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

(16)

Rules and Administration, nine members.

(17)

Technology and Innovation, nine members.

(18)

Veterans, seven members.

(19)

Workforce, Housing and Community Development, five members.

(20)

Zoning and Building, Committee of the Whole.

December 4, 2018

(j) Referrals to committees. The Board may by motion refer any item before the Board to a
Committee or to a subcommittee. The Chair of a committee may refer an item pending in that committee
to a subcommittee of that committee. An item referred by the Board to any committee or subcommittee, or
by a committee chair to a subcommittee, shall not be jointly referred to any other committee or
subcommittee. Only upon the return of the item to the Board, either by report of the committee or by the
Board's discharge of the item from the committee or subcommittee, may the Board refer the item to another
committee or subcommittee.
Any item that creates a new Ordinance or amends an existing section or sections of the Code shall
be referred to a committee or subcommittee upon its initial introduction to the Board. Upon referral, the
committee shall hold a hearing on the item. Following the hearing, the item shall be reported to the Board
or discharged by the committee or subcommittee. The Board may vote for immediate consideration of the
item by a majority vote.
No committee or subcommittee shall meet for any purpose other than to consider one or more items
referred by the Board.
(k) Committee deliberation and reporting. Upon the completion of deliberations by a committee or
subcommittee on an item referred to it, a committee or subcommittee in conjunction with the Secretary to
the Board shall inform the members of the actions of the committee or subcommittee on the item to their
parent committee or to the Board.
Specifically, action is defined as motions, duly seconded and carried, to adopt one of the six
following statements of intent with respect to an item:
(1)

Approve;

(2)

Approve as Amended;

(3)

Not Approve;

(4)

Not Approve as Amended;

(5)

Receive and File; and

(6)

Returned With No Recommendation.
25

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

The committee's adoption of any one of the above six statements of intent shall constitute
conclusive action by the committee on an item, and shall automatically discharge the committee from
further jurisdiction of the item. Absent the attachment of one of these six statements of intent to the
Communication Numbered item, such item will remain in committee unless discharged by the Board, or
until the item is received and filed.
A committee or subcommittee may also inform the members that action by the committee or
subcommittee was deferred, referred to a subcommittee or special subcommittee or otherwise inconclusive.
(l) Committee meeting minutes. Prior to the next scheduled meeting of the committee or
subcommittee, the Secretary shall prepare the minutes of the meeting. The minutes shall contain: a list of
the attendees; an account of the items considered; a summary of the deliberations, including motions and
amendments proposed and/or adopted; all votes taken; the result of said votes; and, any attachments to the
record as ordered by the Chair. The minutes of a meeting may be created and preserved in an electronic
format on a publicly available County owned website as maintained by the Secretary.
(m) Public hearings of committees. Any committee meeting may, at the discretion of the Chair, be
designated as a public hearing; provided that the following requirements are satisfied:
(1)

A paid notice containing the time, place, subject matter of the hearing, and solicitation of
pertinent public testimony shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Cook
County;

(2)

A like notice shall be posted on the County owned website maintained by the Secretary;

(3)

A court reporter is present and reporting all written and oral testimony by members of the
public;

(4)

All oral testimony by members of the public shall be the first order of business after the
committee is called to order; and

(5)

Any other meeting notification requirements found elsewhere in this Section.

(n) Discharge of committee item by the Board. The Board may discharge any item from committee
by a majority vote.
Sec. 2-110. – Committee Roles and Responsibilities, Specified.
(a) Open Meetings Act
The Chairperson of a Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners shall be
responsible for complying with the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1, et. seq.
(b) Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

26

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(1)

Confirmation of presidential appointments. All appointments and reappointments of the
President requiring the advice and consent of the Board shall be referred to the Legislation
and Intergovernmental Relations Committee upon the President's submission unless
waived by the Board. The Committee shall promptly hold such hearings as it deems
appropriate and shall, no later than 30 days after referral, report all such appointments to
the Board with a recommendation for action. If the Committee has not made a timely report
on any appointment, the appointment shall, at the next regular meeting of the Board
following the expiration of such 30 days, be referred to the Board with "no
recommendation" by the Committee.

(2)

Notarized and Signed Affidavit Required. Prior to their confirmation hearing, each
candidate for appointment or reappointment by the President or any other appointing
authority shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:

(3)

a.

Is signed by the candidate;

b.

Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;

c.

Is notarized;

Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute,
ordinance, law or regulation that creates the appointment, including, but not limited to;
a.

Any residency requirements; and/or

b.

Any prohibitions on dual employment;

(4)

Attests that the candidate possesses no conflicts of interest that would prevent them from
adequately representing the interests of the agency to which they are being appointed; an

(5)

Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills to adequately
represent the interests of the agency and delineates those qualifications and skills;
a.

Notarizes and acknowledges:
1.

The candidate's actual residency address;

2.

The length of time that the candidate has resided at their actual residency;

3.

If the candidate owns any other residential property within Cook County;
and

4.

If the candidate obtains any homeowners property tax exemptions for
property other than their actual residency address.

27

 Board of Commissioners
(6)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is
appointed, the candidate will notify the President of Cook County Board of Commissioners
and the Chairman of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee in writing
within seven business days of the change.

(c) Finance Committee
(1)

Budget matters. The President's executive budget recommendation and all motions,
resolutions or ordinances that propose, amend, transfer or supplement any appropriations
of funds or budget measure shall be referred to the Finance Committee.

(2)

Minimum Timeframe for Public Inspection. Upon receiving the Executive
Recommendation, the Finance Committee shall make the recommendation conveniently
available to public inspection for at least ten days prior to final action in printed format and
electronic format on a publicly accessible County owned website.

(3)

The President's executive budget recommendation and all motions, resolutions or
ordinances that propose, amend, transfer or supplement any appropriations of funds or
budget measure shall provide the basis upon which the annual appropriation ordinance is
prepared and enacted.

(4)

The Finance Committee shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, notice of which shall
be given by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the County at least
one week prior to the time of such hearing. It shall be the duty of the Finance Committee
to prepare such tentative appropriation bill and make it so available to public inspection
and also to arrange for and hold such public hearing or hearings.

(5)

Debate. The proponent of any budgetary measure shall be afforded the right of debate.

(d) Finance Subcommittee on Litigation.
(1)

The Cook County State's Attorney's Office shall, for each settlement of $500,000.00 and
above, submit the following:
a.

Any legal conflicts of interest of any party to the suit, as well as opposing counsel,
of which the State's Attorney's Office is aware at the time it makes its settlement
recommendation;

b.

The current employment status of employee stakeholders named in the proposed
settlement;

c.

Any significant tangible evidence (i.e., photos, videos) that the State's Attorney's
Office believes is relevant to its recommendation; and

d.

At the end of each fiscal year:

28

 Board of Commissioners

(2)

(3)

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

(i)

the State's Attorney's Office will provide an annual summary of all
settlements, case dispositions and invoices approved in excess of
$500,000.00 entered into during that fiscal year; and

(ii)

the County offices whose employees are named defendants in any such
cases shall report on the employment statues of such employees and any
resulting disciplinary actions.

Further, on or before the submittal deadline for the Subcommittee meeting at which a
proposed settlement of $500,000.00 or more will be discussed, the State's Attorney's Office
shall provide the Director of the Cook County Department of Human Rights and Ethics
("Director") with the following information for each such settlement:
a.

The identity of all counsel appearing in the case and their respective firms;

b.

A copy of the compliant, with the case numbers;

c.

The name of each party and, for individual County defendants, their employer; and

d.

The Assistant State's Attorney(s) responsible for the case.

At such Subcommittee meeting, the Director shall report to the Subcommittee any potential
issues arising under the Cook County Ethics Ordinance presented by the proposed
settlement based on the information provided to the Director by the State's Attorney's
Office.

(e) Finance Subcommittee on Tax Delinquency
(1)

The President of the County Board is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a
committee of the County Board, consisting of a minimum of five members whose duty it
shall be to consider parcels of real estate submitted to it by municipalities and governmental
agencies or their subdivisions.

(2)

Upon consideration thereof make the proper recommendation as to forfeiture foreclosure
thereon.

(3)

Such recommendation of forfeiture foreclosure thereon shall set a minimum bid which the
municipality or governmental agency has guaranteed that it will make at the forfeiture
foreclosure sale,

(4)

the Committee in the exercise of its powers to recommend tax foreclosures, shall be limited
to consideration and recommendation for forfeiture foreclosures only requests made to it
by municipalities, governmental agencies and their subdivisions.

Sec. 2-111. – Items pending in committee at conclusion of term.

29

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

All items relating to pending litigation, workers' compensation claims or applications made
pursuant to the Cook County Zoning Ordinance at the conclusion of each term shall automatically be
referred to the successor committee during the succeeding term. Upon conclusion of the 2018—2022
term and each term thereafter, all legislation and other items referred to any committee or subcommittee
prior to the last regular meeting of the term of the Board shall automatically be discharged from
Committee and shall automatically be received and filed by the Board. The Secretary shall issue a report
not less than 60 days prior to the expiration of each term to the President and chair of each committee
and subcommittee listing all items pending in each committee and subcommittee.
Approved and adopted this 4th of December 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
_________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, moved that the
Ordinance regarding New Rules of Organization and Procedure be approved and adopted.
Commissioners Anaya, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved that the Ordinance regarding
New rules of Organization and Procedure be amended. The motion carried.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, that the
Ordinance regarding New Rules of Organization and Procedure be approved as amended. The
motion carried.
19-0443
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT,
LUIS ARROYO JR, ALMA E. ANAYA, SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY,
DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON,
BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON,
SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN AND
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
APPOINTMENT OF PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, CHAIRS AND VICE-CHAIRS
OF THE STANDING COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES AND
MEMBERS OF STANDING COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES

30

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, that,
effective upon passage, the following Commissioners are designated and appointed as President Pro
Tempore, Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons of the Standing Committees and Subcommittees of the
Board.
Section 1.

The President Pro Tempore of the Cook County Board shall be Commissioner Sims.

Section 2.

The Chair, Vice-Chair and members of the committees and of the subcommittees of the
Cook County Board shall be as follows:

ASSET MANAGEMENT (9 members)
Chair:
Moore
Vice-Chair:
Arroyo
Members:
Anaya, Britton, Deer, K. Morrison, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims
AUDIT (7 members)
Chair:
Daley
Vice-Chair:
S. Morrison
Members:
Britton, Degnen, Gainer, Lowry, Miller
BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (9 members)
Chair:
Gainer
Vice-Chair:
Anaya
Members:
Britton, Deer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, K. Morrison, S. Morrison
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE (9 members)
Chair:
Moore
Vice-Chair:
Miller
Members:
Anaya, Arroyo, Degnen, Deer, Johnson, Lowry, Sims

31

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

CRIMINAL JUSTICE (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Moore
Vice-Chair:
Johnson
Members:
All Board Members
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY (7 members)
Chair:
Deer
Vice-Chair:
Degnen
Members:
Britton, Lowry, Miller, K. Morrison, Silvestri
FINANCE (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Daley
Vice-Chair:
Sims
Members:
All Board Members
FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON LITIGATION (7 members)
Chair:
Silvestri
Vice-Chair:
Lowry
Members:
Britton, Degnen, Johnson, S. Morrison, Suffredin
FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON TAX DELINQUENCY (5 members)
Chair:
Sims
Vice-Chair:
K. Morrison
Members:
Johnson, Lowry, Miller
FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE ON WORKERS’ COMPENSATION (5 members)
Chair:
S. Morrison
Vice-Chair:
Britton
Members:
Degnen, Johnson, K. Morrison
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Deer
Vice-Chair:
Arroyo
Members:
All Board Members
HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Tobolski
Vice-Chair:
Lowry
Members:
All Board Members
HUMAN RELATIONS (7 members)
Chair:
Deer
Vice-Chair:
K. Morrison
Members:
Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims, Suffredin
LABOR (9 members)
Chair:
Arroyo
32

 Board of Commissioners
Vice-Chair:
Members:

Journal of Proceedings

Tobolski
Degnen, Johnson, Lowry, Miller, Moore, K. Morrison, Sims

33

December 4, 2018

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

LAW ENFORCEMENT (7 members)
Chair:
Moore
Vice-Chair:
Silvestri
Members:
Britton, Johnson, Miller, K. Morrison, Tobolski
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Suffredin
Vice-Chair:
Britton
Members:
All Board Members
PENSION (7 members)
Chair:
Gainer
Vice-Chair:
Anaya
Members:
Daley, Johnson, Miller, K. Morrison, Suffredin
RULES AND ADMINISTRATION (9 members)
Chair:
Suffredin
Vice-Chair:
Degnen
Members:
Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION (9 members)
Chair:
Tobolski
Vice-Chair:
S. Morrison
Members:
Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, K. Morrison, Silvestri
TRANSPORTATION (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Sims
Vice-Chair:
Arroyo
Members:
All Board Members
VETERANS (7 members)
Chair:
Tobolski
Vice-Chair:
Johnson
Members:
Arroyo, Daley, Deer, Lowry, Suffredin
WORKFORCE, HOUSING, AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (5 members)
Chair:
Gainer
Vice-Chair:
Miller
Members:
Anaya, Sims, Suffredin
ZONING AND BUILDING (Committee of the Whole)
Chair:
Silvestri
Vice-Chair:
Sims
Members:
All Board Members
Approved and adopted this 4th of December 2018.
34

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
_________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved that the
Resolution be approved and adopted.
19-0444
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT,
LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, DEBORAH SIMS, LUIS ARROYO JR,
DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET GAINER, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, ALMA E. ANAYA, SCOTT R. BRITTON,
BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER AND
KEVIN B. MORRISON, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
TO FILL VACANCY IN THE OFFICE OF RECORDER OF DEEDS
WHEREAS, effective December 3, 2018, Cook County Recorder of Deeds, Karen Yarbrough will resign
from and vacate the office of Cook County Recorder; Karen Yarbrough will assume the Office of Cook
County Clerk; and
WHEREAS, effective December 3, 2018, the Office of the Cook County Recorder will be vacant; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with 10 ILCS 5/25-11, a vacancy in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds shall
be filled by the County Board of Commissioners for the remainder of the current term; and
WHEREAS, the current term for the Cook County Recorder of Deeds expires on December 1, 2020; and
WHEREAS, in 2016, the voters in Cook County approved a binding referendum which will eliminate the
Office of the Cook County Recorder of Deeds and transfer its responsibilities to the Cook County Clerk’s
Office by December 7, 2020; and
WHEREAS, Edward M. Moody is nominated to fill the remainder of the term of the Cook County Recorder
of Deeds; and
WHEREAS, Edward M. Moody has most recently served as the 6th District Commissioner for the Cook
County Board of Commissioners and in that capacity is familiar with the operations of the Recorder of
Deeds; and
35

 Board of Commissioners

Journal of Proceedings

December 4, 2018

WHEREAS, Edward M. Moody has also served as Chairman of the Worth Township Fair Housing Review
Board, Worth Township Highway Commissioner, Board Member and President of School District 127.5
and Court Coordinator for the Office of the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Edward M. Moody has been an effective legislator and administrator and will be influential
in coordinating the transfer of responsibilities of the Office of the Recorder of Deeds to the County Clerk
in accordance with the 2016 referendum.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
approve the appointment of Edward M. Moody as the Cook County Recorder of Deeds through the
remainder of the current term; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Edward M. Moody shall undertake the oath of office for the
Recorder of Deeds on December 4, 2018 in accordance with 55 ILCS 5/3-5003.
Approved and adopted this 4th of December 2018.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
_________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Britton, moved that the
Resolution be approved.
ADJOURNMENT
*****
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that the meeting do
now adjourn to meet again at the next regular, scheduled County Board Meeting on Wednesday,
December 12, 2018 at 11:00 A.M. in accordance with County Board Resolution 18-0624.

The motion prevailed and the meeting stood adjourned.
________________________

KAREN A. YARBROUGH
County Clerk
36

 