.•
~
'·.·'

'

:

-'.,
~

'

I'!'/'.··

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Committee
PUBLIC HEARING AND COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, November 10, 2016

lO:OOAM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler,
Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri,
Suffredin, and Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code.

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
2. Donnie Andersonillinois, Committee of Blind Vendors
3. Linda Furlano, Illinois Automatic Merchandising Council
4. Dr. Javette Orgain, Illinois Academy of Family Physicians
5. Elissa Bassler, Illinois Public Health Institute
6. Janna Simon, Illinois Public Health Institute
7. Mark Peysakhovich, American Heart Association
8. Martin Sandoval, La Chiquita
9. Tanya Triche, Illinois Retail Merchants Association
10. Phillip Jimenez/ Laura Olszewski, West Cook YMCA
11. Dr. Linda Abington, Concerned Citizen
12. Apostle Carl White, Concerned Citizen
13. Toni Woods, Concerned Citizen
14. Nuri Madina, Work Ready
15. Jerilynn White, H.O.P.E. Technology and Education Center
16. Rev. Donald Smith, H.O.P.E. Technology and Education Center
17. Rev. Marvin Hunter, H.O.P.E. Technology and Education Center
18. Greg Forman, H.O.P.E. Technology and Education Center
19. Dr. P. Binion, H.0.P.E. Technology and Education Center
20. David Wilson, H.O.P.E. Technology and Education Center

 21. Andre Adams, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group
22. Bernadette Rodriguez, Hegewisch Chamber of Commerce
23. Bishop Edgar Mullins, Concerned Citizen
24. Brad Troutman, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group
25. Chris Duncan, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group
26. Claudia Rodriguez, Illinois Beverage Association
27. Darryl Gilbert, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group
28. Darvel Stone, Coca-Cola
29. Dashanitta Mitchell, Coca-Cola
30. Devon Carrington, PepsiCo
31. Heri Torres, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group
32. Ivan Matsunaga, Connie's Pizza
33. Jeremy Yancey, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group
34. Jocilyn Floyd, The Mother Board
35. Linda Peet, Coca-Cola
36. Mary De Groot, PepsiCo
37. Melissa Kacxmarczyk, Concerned Citizen
38. Maurice Bell, NAN
39. Pastor Maurice Gaiter, Concerned Citizen
40. Reverend Anibal Vega, Concerned Citizen
41. Sam Toia, Illinois Restaurant Association
42. Todd Eveland, PepsiCo
43. Torano Bins, PepsiCo
44. Matt Holland, Student
45. Kenneth Lewis, Sr., Kenny's Ribs
46. Anthony Downer, Concerned Citizen
4 7. Eddy Borrayo, Rincon Family Services
48. Michael Reever, Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce
49. Sarah Thune, PepsiCo
50. Travis Ingish, PepsiCo
51. Kelli Keating, PepsiCo
52. Jessica Stewart, PepsiCo
53. Glenn SmithPepsiCo
54. Donald Ziegler, Evanston Health Advisory Commission
55. Anna Carrilin, ICAAP
56. Beniamino Capellupo - SEIU

Page 2 of28

 16-5931
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners

.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(a) of
the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Constitution provides that home rule units may exercise any power and perform any
function pertaining to its government and affairs including, but not limited to, the power to regulate for the
protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; to license; to tax; and to incur debt; and
WHEREAS, Illinois law (55 ILCS 5/5-1009) permits home rule units to impose "taxes not based on the selling or
purchase pdce or gross receipts from the use, sale or purchase of tangible personal property"; and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the
World Health Organization, based on a summary of the available evidence linking intake of added sugar and sugar
sweetened beverages to adverse health outcomes including obesity and diabetes, have recommended that Americans
consume no more than 10% of their daily calories in the form of added sugar; and
WHEREAS, numerous organizations and agencies, including the American Heart Association, American Diabetes
Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, American Medical
Association, and the Centers for Disease Control, recommend limiting intake of added sugar and sugar sweetened
beverages to improve health; and
WHEREAS, studies show that sugary beverages flood the liver with high amounts of sugar in a short amount of
time and that this "sugar rush" over time leads to fat deposits and metabolic disturbances that cause diabetes,
cardiovascular disease, and other serious health problems; and
WHEREAS, diseases connected to sugary beverages disproportionately impact minorities and low-income
communities; and
WHEREAS, two out of three adults and one out of three children in the United States are overweight or obese and
on any given day, half the people in the U.S. consume sugary drinks, with one in four consuming at least 200
calories from such drinks and 5% drinking at least 567 calories (equivalent to four cans of soda); and
WHEREAS, the University of Connecticut RUDD Center for Food Policy & Obesity found that residents of the
City of Chicago consume approximately 140 million gallons of sweetened beverages per year; applying such
analysis to the County, Cook County residents are estimated to consume approximately 269 million gallons of
sweetened beverages per year; and
WHEREAS, sodas, sports drinks, coffees and other sugar sweetened beverages packed with calories constitute the
largest source of added sugars in the diets of American children and consuming only one sugar sweetened beverage
per day correlates positively with weight gain for children and adolescents; and

Page 3 of28

 WHEREAS, a 2008 study found drinking more than two servings of diet soda (a beverage containing non-caloric
sweeteners) a day doubled the risk for kidney decline in women; and
WHEREAS, the Multiethnic Study of Atherosclerosis found that daily consumption of beverages containing noncaloric sweeteners was associated with 36% greater risk for metabolic syndrome and 67% increased risk for type 2
diabetes; and
WHEREAS, a 2012 study found that consumption of diet soft drinks was associated with increased risk for vascular
events, including stroke;
WHEREAS, in the San Antonio Heart Study, participants who drank more than 21 beverages containing noncaloric sweetener per week were twice as likely to become overweight or obese as people who did not drink such
beverages; and
WHEREAS, the World Health Organization recently stated that implementing taxes on sugar sweetened beverages
can lower consumption and reduce obesity, type 2 diabetes and tooth decay; and
WHEREAS, in an effort to promote public health, including lowered obesity rates, the Board of Commissioners
has determined that a County tax not based upon the selling or purchase price or gross receipts from the use, sale
or purchase thereof should be imposed on the sale of sweetened beverages in Cook County, as provided herein.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article XXII. Sweetened Beverage Tax, Sections 74-;850 to 74-859 of the Cook County Code is hereby
enacted as Follows:
ARTICLE XXII. - SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX

Sec. 74-850. - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Sweetened Beverage Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-851. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Beverage for medical use means (1) a beverage suitable for human consumption and manufactured for use as
an oral nutritional therapy for persons who cannot absorb or metabolize dietary nutrients from food or beverages,
or for use as an oral rehydration electrolyte solution formulated to prevent or treat dehydration due to illness; and
(2) medically necessary foods, as defined in the federal Orphan Drug Act, 21 U.S.C. 360ee(b)(3), as amended.
Beverage for medical use shall not include drinks commonly referred to as "sports drinks" or any other common
names that are derivations thereof.
Beverage dispensing machine means a fountain drink machine, device that combines syrup or syrup
concentrate and carbon dioxide with chilled and purified water, or other refrigerated beverage machine used to serve
non-carbonated drinks.

Page 4 of28

 Bottle means any sealed container regardless of size or shape, including, but not limited to, those made of glass,
metal, paper, plastic, or any other material or combination of materials.
Bottled sweetened beverage means any sweetened beverage contained in a bottle that is ready for consumption
without further processing such as, but not limited to, dilution or carbonation.
Caloric sweetener means any caloric substance used as an ingredient of a beverage, syrup, or powder that
includes sucrose, fructose, glucose and/or other sugars, suitable for human consumption which adds calories to the
diet of a person who consumes that substance.
County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue.
Distributor means any person, including manufacturers and wholesale dealers, who receives, stores,
manufactures, bottles or distributes bottled sweetened beverages, syrup or powder, for sale to retailers doing
business in Cook County, whether or not that person also sells such products to purchasers.
Milk means natural liquid milk regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content, natural milk
concentrate, whether or not reconstituted, regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content, or dehydrated
natural milk, whether or not reconstituted and regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content.
Natural fruit juice means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of fruits or the liquid resulting from
the dilution of dehydrated natural fruit juice.
Natural vegetable juice means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of vegetables or the liquid
resulting from the dilution of dehydrated natural vegetable juice.
Non-alcoholic beverage means any beverage that contains less than one-half of one percent alcohol per
volume.
Non-caloric sweetener means any non-caloric substance used as an ingredient of a beverage, syrup or powder
that includes aspartame, saccharin, stevia and/or sucralose, suitable for human consumption which does not add
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.
Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other legal entity.
Powder means any solid mixture, containing any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener as an ingredient,
intended to be used in making, mixing or compounding a sweetened beverage by combining the powder with one
or more other ingredients by hand or in a beverage dispensing machine.
Purchaser means any person who purchases in a retail sale.
Retail sale means any sale to a person for use or consumption, and not for resale.
Retailer means any person engaged in the business of selling sweetened beverages at retail in the County.

Page 5 of28

 Sale, resale and selling means any transfer of ownership or possession or both, exchange or barter, conditional
or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for valuable consideration.
Sweetened beverage means any non-alcoholic beverage, carbonated or non-carbonated, which is intended for
human consumption and contains any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener, and is available for sale in a bottle
or produced for sale from using syrup and/or powder. Sweetened beverage does not include (1) beverages consisting
of 100% natural fruit or vegetable juice; (2) beverages in which milk, or soy, rice, or similar milk substitute, makes
up more than 50% of the beverage or is the first listed ingredient on the label of the beverage; (3) beverages to
which a purchaser can add, or can request that a retailer add, caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener; (4) infant
formula; (5) beverages for medical use; (6) any liquid sold as a therapeutic nutritional meal replacement or for use
for weight reduction as a meal replacement; or (7) any syrup or powder that the purchaser himself or herself
combines with other ingredients to create a beverage.
Syrup means a liquid mixture, containing any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener as an ingredient,
intended to be used, or actually used, in making, mixing or compounding a sweetened beverage by combining the
syrup with one or more other ingredients using a beverage dispensing machine.

Sec. 74-852. -Tax imposed and liability for payment.
(a) Effective July 1, 2017, a tax is hereby imposed on the retail sale in Cook County of aU sweetened beverages.
(1)

The tax shall be imposed at the rate of $0.01 per ounce of bottled sweetened beverages sold.

(2)

The tax on sweetened beverages produced through the use of syrup and/or powder, sold either as syrup
or powder or as a sweetened beverage derived from that syrup or powder shall be $0.01 per ounce of
sweetened beverage produced from that syrup or powder. For purposes of calculating the tax, the volume
of sweetened beverage produced from syrup or powder shall be equal to the largest volume, in ounces,
of sweetened beverages that could be produced from the syrup or powder. The largest volume shall be
determined based on the manufacturer's instructions.

(b) The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied in this Article is to be borne by the
purchaser of the sweetened beverage. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation
of distributors or retailers.
( c) It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any distributor or retailer to fail to include the tax imposed
in this Article in the sale price of the sweetened beverage, syrup and/or powder or to otherwise absorb the tax. The
tax levied in this Article shall be in addition to any other taxes.
(d) Except as provisions are made in this Article for the collection of the tax levied in this Article upon the
sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder in the possession of retailers on the effective date of the ordinance from
which this Article is derived, the tax levied in this Article shall be collected by each distributor when it sells
sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powµer to a retailer or a purchaser in Cook County.
(e) Any distributor of sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder shall collect the tax levied by this Article
from any retailer to whom the sale of sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder is made and remit the tax to the
Department. Any retailer shall in tum then collect the tax from the purchaser of sweetened beverage. Should a
distributor sell sweetened beverages directly to a purchaser, the distributor shall collect the tax from that purchaser.
The tax shall be paid to the person required to collect it as trustee for and on behalf of the County.
Page 6 of28

 Se.c. 74-853. - Registration and remittance.
(a) Any distributor who engages in the business of selling sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder in the
County must register with the Department, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Department, within 30
days after the effective date of this ordinance, and after such 30 days has passed, prior to engaging in the business
of selling sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder for resale, use or consumption in the County. Failure to register
pursuant to this section shall be considered a violation of this Article.
(b) Distributors shall file each month with the Department a tax return reflecting sales of sweetened beverages,
syrup and/or powder, in such form as prescribed and furnished by the Department, on or before the 20th day of the
month following the month for which the return is due. Each tax return shall be accompanied by a remittance of the
appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sales reported. The remittance shall be made payable to the County
Collector. Registered distributors must file a monthly return even if no tax is due. Failure to file a monthly return
and remit applicable tax shall be considered a violation of this Article.
(c) Any retailer who acquires sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder from an unregistered distributor or on
which tax was not previously paid, must file a tax return, in such form as prescribed and furnished by the
Department, on or before the 20th day of the month following the month in which the sweetened beverages, syrup
and/or powder were acquired. Each return must be accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of
applicable tax. The remittance shall be made payable to the County Collector. Failure of a retailer to file a return
and remit applicable tax shall be considered a violation of this Article.
(d) The Department, in its discretion, may require that registration be completed, tax returns be submitted, and
payments be made electronically.
Sec. 74-854. - Tax-free sales.
(a) Registered distributors shall not pay or collect a tax with respect to sweetened beverages, syrup and/or
powder which are otherwise subject to the tax when the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder are being sold
to the following:
( 1) Another registered distributor; or
(2) An unregistered distributor, a retailer or a purchaser when the selling distributor, or its agent, delivers the
sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder to a location outside of Cook County.
(b) The tax imposed by this Article shall not apply to purchases of sweetened beverages by a passenger on an
interstate carrier; nor shall this tax apply to purchases that are specifically exempt from taxation under Federal law.
It shall be presumed that all sales of sweetened beverages from distributors or retailers are subject to the tax under
this Article until the contrary is established.
Sec. 7 4-855. - Tax in addition to other taxes.
The tax imposed by this Article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Government of the United
States, the State, or by any unit of local government.

Page 7 of28

 Sec. 74-856. - Books and records.
(a) Every distributor and every retailer shall keep accurate books and records showing all transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability, exemption or defense to liability.
(b) Books and records and other documents shall be kept, by distributors and retailers, for the taxable time
period as listed in the statute of limitations section of the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III, Sec. 34-60 et seq. All books and records shall be kept in the English language
and, at all times during business hours, shall be subject to and available for inspection or copying by the Department.
Failure to keep books and records pursuant to this section shall be considered a violation of this Article.

Sec. 74-857. - Violation; penalties.
Any person determined to have violated this Article, as amended, by failing to file a return and/or failing to
remit taxes shall be subject to the penalties listed in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III. Any person determined to have violated any other provisions of this Article shall
be subject to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent
offense. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall
continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be deemed a
violation of this Article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department.
Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute civil proceedings
to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-858. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article or whenever this Article is silent, the provisions
of the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III shall apply and
supplement this Article.

Sec. 74-859. - Rulemaking.
(a) The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry out the
duties imposed upon it by this Article. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall take into account existing
practices of sweetened beverage distributors and retailers for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied.
(b) On or before August 20, 2017, every retailer of sweetened beverages doing business in the County shall file
with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn tax return reporting the inventory of sweetened beverages,
syrup and/or powder, on which the sweetened beverage tax was not previously paid, in their possession or control
on June 30, 2017. With said tax return, the retailer shall remit to the Cook County Collector the taxes due with
respect to all sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder, on which the sweetened beverage tax was not previously
paid which were in the retailers' possession on June 30, 2017. The retailer shall in tum collect the tax from its
purchasers.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect beginning March 1, 2017
Legislative History: 10/13/16 Board of Commissioners refer to the Finance Committee

Page 8 of28

 A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, to amend item
16-5931. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and Tobolski
(15)

Nays:

Commissioner Gainer ( 1)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, to suspend the
rules to consider an amendment offered on its face by Commissioner Gainer to item 16-5931. The
motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, to amend
Section 74-852 (e)(2) line 5 and Section 74-852 (f)(2) line 4in File ID 16-5931. The motion carried
by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ITEM 16-5931
INCLUDES AMENDMENT PROPOSED ON FLOOR BY COMMISSIONER GAINER
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOHN P. DALEY, STANLEY MOORE and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section
6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois Constitution provides that home rule units may exercise any power and perform
any function pertaining to its government and affairs including, but not limited to, the power to regulate for
the protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; to license; to tax; and to incur debt; and

Page 9 of28

 WHEREAS, Illinois law (55 ILCS 5/5-1009) permits home rule units to impose "taxes not based on the
selling or purchase price or gross receipts from the use, sale or purchase of tangible personal property"; and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and
the World Health Organization, based on a summary of the available evidence linking intake of added sugar
and sugar sweetened beverages to adverse health outcomes including obesity and diabetes, have
recommended that Americans consume no more than 10% of their daily calories in the form of added sugar;
and
WHEREAS, numerous organizations and agencies, including the American Heart Association, American
Diabetes Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, Institute of Medicine of the National Academies,
American Medical Association, and the Centers for Disease Control, recommend limiting intake of added
sugar and sugar sweetened beverages to improve health; and
WHEREAS, studies show that sugary beverages flood the liver with high amounts of sugar in a short
amount of time and that this "sugar rush" over time leads to fat deposits and metabolic disturbances that
cause diabetes,
cardiovascular disease, and other serious health problems; and
I
WHEREAS, diseases connected to sugary beverages disproportionately impact minorities and low-income
communities; and
WHEREAS, two out of three adults and one out of three children in the United States are overweight or
obese and on any given day, half the people in the U.S. consume sugary drinks, with one in four consuming
at least 200 calories from such drinks and 5% drinking at least 567 calories (equivalent to four cans of
soda); and
WHEREAS, the University of Connecticut RUDD Center for Food Policy & Obesity found that residents
of the City of Chicago consume approximately 140 million gallons of sweetened beverages per year;
applying such analysis to the County, Cook County residents are estimated to consume approximately 269
million gallons of sweetened beverages per year; and
WHEREAS, sodas, sports drinks, coffees and other sugar sweetened beverages packed with calories
constitute the largest source of added sugars in the diets of American children and consuming only one
sugar sweetened beverage per day correlates positively with weight gain for children and adolescents; and
WHEREAS, a 2008 study found drinking more than two servings of diet soda (a beverage containing noncaloric sweeteners) a day doubled the risk for kidney decline in women; and
WHEREAS, the Multiethnic Study of Atherosclerosis found that daily consumption of beverages
containing non-caloric sweeteners was associated with 36% greater risk for metabolic syndrome and 67%
increased risk for type 2 diabetes; and
WHEREAS, a 2012 study found that consumption of diet soft drinks was associated with increased risk
for vascular events, including stroke;
WHEREAS, in the San Antonio Heart Study, participants who drank more than 21 beverages containing
non-caloric sweetener per week were twice as likely to become overweight or obese as people who did not
drink such beverages; and

Page 10 of28

 WHEREAS, the World Health Organization recently stated that implementing taxes on sugar sweetened
beverages can lower consumption and reduce obesity, type 2 diabetes and tooth decay; and
WHEREAS, in an effort to promote public health, including lowered obesity rates, the Board of
Commissioners has determined that a County tax not based upon the selling or purchase price or gross
receipts from the use, sale or purchase thereof should be imposed on the sale of sweetened beverages in
Cook County, as provided herein.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
74 - Taxation, Article XXII. Sweetened Beverage Tax, Sections 74-850 to 74-859 of the Cook County Code
is hereby enacted as Follows:
ARTICLE XXII. - SWEETENED BEVERAGE TAX

Sec. 74-850. - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Sweetened Beverage Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-851. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Beverage for medical use means (1) a beverage suitable for human consumption and manufactured for
use as an oral nutritional therapy for persons who cannot absorb or metabolize dietary nutrients from food
or beverages, or for use as an oral rehydration electrolyte solution formulated to prevent or treat dehydration
due to illness; and (2) medically necessary foods, as defined in the federal Orphan Drug Act, 21 U.S.C.
360ee(b )(3 ), as amended. Beverage for medical use shall not include drinks commonly referred to as "sports
drinks" or any other common names that are derivations thereof.
Beverage dispensing machine means a fountain drink machine, !! device that combines syrup or syrup
concentrate and carbon dioxide with chilled and purified water, or other refrigerated beverage machine used
to serve non-carbonated or carbonated drinks.
Bottle means any sealed container regardless of size or shape, including, but not limited to, those made
of glass, metal, paper, plastic, or any other material or combination of materials, including cans.
Bottled sweetened beverage means any sweetened beverage contained in a bottle that is ready for
consumption without further processing such as, but not limited to, dilution or carbonation.
Caloric sweetener means any caloric substance used as an ingredient of a beverage, syrup, or powder
that includes sucrose, fructose, glucose and/or other sugars, suitable for human consumption which adds
calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.
County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue.
Page 11 of28

 Distributor means any person, including manufacturers and wholesale dealers, who receives, stores,
manufactures, bottles or distributes bottled sweetened beverages, syrup or powder, for sale to retailers doing
business in Cook County, whether or not that person also sells such products to purchasers.
Milk means natural liquid milk regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content, natural milk
concentrate, whether or not reconstituted, regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat content, or
dehydrated natural milk, whether or not reconstituted and regardless of animal or plant source or butterfat
content.
Natural fruit juice means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of fruits or the liquid resulting
from the dilution of dehydrated natural fruit juice.
Natural vegetable juice means the original liquid resulting from the pressing of vegetables or the liquid
resulting from the dilution of dehydrated natural vegetable juice.
Non-alcoholic beverage means any beverage that contains less than one-half of one percent alcohol per
volume.
Non-caloric sweetener means any non-caloric substance used as an ingredient of a beverage, syrup or
powder that includes aspartame, saccharin, stevia and/or sucralose, suitable for human consumption which
does not add calories to the diet of a person who consumes that substance.
Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
Powder means any solid mixture, containing any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener as an
ingredient, intended to be used in making, mixing or compounding a sweetened beverage by combining the
powder with one or more other ingredients by hand or in a beverage dispensing machine.
Purchaser means any person who purchases in a retail sale.
Retail sale means any sale to a person for use or consumption, and not for resale.
Retailer means any person engaged in the business of selling sweetened beverages at retail in the
County.
Sale, resale and selling means any transfer of ownership or possession or both, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for valuable consideration.

Page 12 of28

 Sweetened beverage means any non-alcoholic beverage, carbonated or non-carbonated, which is
intended for human consumption and contains any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener, and is
available for sale in a bottle or produced for sale from l:lsiag through the use of syrup and/or powder.
Sweetened beverage does not include (1) beverages consisting of 100% natural fruit or vegetable juice; (2)
beverages in which milk, or soy, rice, or similar milk substitute, makes up more than 50% of the beverage
or is the first listed ingredient on the label of the beverage; (3) beverages to which a purchaser can add, or
can request that a retailer add, caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener; (4) infant formula; (5) beverages
for medical use; (6) any liquid sold as a therapeutic nutritional meal replacement or for use for weight
reduction as a meal replacement; or (7) any syrup or powder that the purchaser himself or herself combines
with other ingredients to create a beverage.
Syrup means a liquid mixture, containing any caloric sweetener or non-caloric sweetener as an
ingredient, intended to be used, or actually used, in making, mixing or compounding a sweetened beverage
by combining the syrup with one or more other ingredients using a beverage dispensing machine.
Sec. 74-852. - Tax imposed and liability for payment.
(a) Effective July 1, 2017, a tax at the rate of $0. 01 per ounce is hereby imposed on the retail sale ffi
Cook Cmrnty of all sweetened beverages in Cook County.

f+)

The tEI* shaU be imposed at the rate of $0.01 per 01:rnee of bottled sweeteRed be't'erages sold.

(2)

The tax on sweetened be·1eFages produoed tkroegh tho use of syn1p and/or pmvder sold either as
syrup or powder or as a sweetened be;•erage derives fro:m that syrup or po·,.,.eler shall be $(;).01
per ounce of sweetened be't'erage produced from that sy:FUfl or powde1·. For p1:1rposes of
ea lcu lating the t8*; t ile volume of sweetened bevera:ge proeluoed from syrup or powder shall be
etteal to the Largest-volume, in om1ces, of sweeteeeel be>1erages that could be i:irod0eed from the
syrup or powder. The largest vo l.ume shall ee determ:i:aed baseel on the man0faeturer's
iastrnctioas.

(b) The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied in this Article is to be borne by
the purchaser of the sweetened beverage. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to impose a tax upon
the occupation of distributors or retailers.
( c) It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any distributor or retailer to fail to include the tax
imposed in this Article in the sale price of the sweetened beverage, syrup and/or powder or to otherwise
absorb the tax, unless otherwise required by law. The tax levied in this Article shall be in addition to any
other taxes.
( d) Except as provisions are made in this Article for the collection of the tax levied in this Article upon
the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder in the possession of retailers on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this Article is derived, the tax levied in this Article shall be collected by each
distributor when it sells sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder to a retailer or a purchaser in Cook
County.
( e) Any distributor of bottled sweetened beverages and any distributor of syrup and/ or powder used to
produce a sweetened beverage shall collect the tax levied by this Article from any retailer to whom the sale
of bottled sweetened beverages or syrup and/or powder used to produce a sweetened beverage is made and
Page 13 of28

 shall remit the tax to the Department. AR)' retailer shall iR turn then eolleet the tax fFOm the pHrehaser of
sweeteAed beverage. Should a distributor sell sweete1teEI be1rerages difectly to a p1::1rehaser, the distdbetor
shall eoHeet the tax from that purobaser. The tax s.hall be paid to the persOfl required to ooYeet it as trastee
for aRd on behalf of the Gol:lRfy.
(1)

The tax on bottled sweetened beverages shall be based upon the number of whole ounces stated
on the sealed container.

(2) For purposes of the distributor's collection of the tax from its sale to a retailer of syrup and/or
powder used to produce a sweetened beverage, the tax shall be $0 .01 per ounce of sweetened
beverage produced from that syrup or powder. For such sales, the tax shall be calculated based
upon the largest vo lume, in whole ow1ces, of sweetened beverage that could be produced from the
syrup or powder, with a reduction of flW@ fly~ percent of the calculated tax to account for spillage
and product preparation at the retai l le el. The largest volume shall be determined based on the
manufacturer's instructions.
(3)

Any retailer shall in turn then collect the tax from the purchaser of sweetened beverage.

(4)

Shou ld a distributor seJI sweetened beverages directly to a purchaser, the distributor shall collect
the tax from that purchaser.

(5)

The tax shall be paid to the person required to collect it as trustee for and on behalf of the County.

(D On or before August 20, 20 17, every retailer of sweetened beverages doing business in the County
shall file with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn tax return reporting the inventory of
sweetened beverages, as well as the inventory of syrup and/or powder used to produce sweetened beverage,
on which the sweetened beverage tax was not previously paid, in its possession or control on JWJe 30, 2017.
With said tax return, the retailer shall remit to the Cook County Collector the taxes due with respect to all
sweetened beverages and syrup and/or powder used to produce sweetened beverage on which the sweetened
beverage tax was not previously paid that was in the retai lers' possession on June 30, 2017. The retailer
shall in turn collect the tax from its pw·chasers. For the plll"pose of determining the amount of tax due on
the amow1.t of product in a retailer s possession or control on June30, 2017, the fo llowing shall apply:
(1)

The tax on bottled sweetened beverages shall be based upon the number of whole ounces stated
on the sealed container.

(2)

The tax for syrup and/or powder used to prnduce a sweetened beverage shall be $0.01 per ounce
of sweetened beverage produced from that syrup or powder, cal.culated based upon the Largest
volume, in whole ounces, of sweetened beverage that could be produced from the syrup or powder.
with a reduction of ~ five percent of the calculated tax to account for spillage and product
The largest volume shall be determined based on the
preparation at the retail level.
manufacturer's instructions.

Page 14 of28

 Sec. 7 4-853. - Registration and remittance.
(a) Any distributor who engages in the business of selling sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder
in the County must register with the Department, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the
Department, within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance, and after such 30 days has passed,
prior to engaging in the business of selling sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder for resale, use or
consumption in the County. Failure to register pursuant to this section shall be considered a violation of
this Article.
(b) Distributors shall file each month with the Department a tax return reflecting sales of sweetened
beverages, syrup and/or powder, in such form as prescribed and furnished by the Department, on or before
the 20th day of the month following the month for which the return is due. Each tax return shall be
accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sales reported. The
remittance shall be made payable to the County Collector. Registered distributors must file a monthly return
even if no tax is due. Failure to file a monthly return and remit applicable tax shall be considered a violation
of this Article.
(c) Any retailer who acquires sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder from an unregistered
distributor or on which tax was not previously paid, must file a tax return, in such form as prescribed and
furnished by the Department, on or before the 20th day of the month following the month in which the
sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder were acquired. Each return must be accompanied by a
remittance of the appropriate amount of applicable tax. The remittance shall be made payable to the County
Collector. Failure of a retailer to file a return and remit applicable tax shall be considered a violation of this
Article.
(d) The Department, in its discretion, may require that registration be completed, tax returns be
submitted, and payments be made electronically.
Sec. 74-854. -Tax-free sales.
(a) Registered distributors shall not pay or collect a tax with respect to sweetened beverages, syrup
and/or powder which are otherwise subject to the tax when the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder
are being sold to the following:
( 1) Another registered distributor; or
(2) An unregistered distributor, a retailer or a purchaser when the selling distributor, or its agent,
delivers the sweetened beverages, syrup and/or powder to a location outside of Cook County.
(b) The tax imposed by this Article shall not apply to purchases of sweetened beverages by a passenger
on an interstate carrier; nor shall this tax apply to purchases that are specifically exempt from taxation under
Federal law.
It shall be presumed that all sales of sweetened beverages from distributors or retailers are
subject to the tax under this Article until the contrary is established.
Sec. 74-855. - Tax in addition to other taxes.
The tax imposed by this Article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Government of the
United States, the State, or by any unit of local government.
Page 15 of28

 Sec. 74-856. - Books and records.
(a) Every distributor and every retailer shall keep accurate books and records showing all transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability, exemption or defense to liability.
(b) Books and records and other documents shall be kept, by distributors and retailers, for the taxable
time period as listed in the statute oflimitations section of the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III, Sec. 34-60 et seq. All books and records shall be kept in the
English language and, at all times during business hours, shall be subject to and available for inspection or
copying by the Department. Failure to keep books and records pursuant to this section shall be considered
a violation of this Article.

Sec. 74-857. - Violation; penalties.
Any person determined to have violated this Article, as amended, by failing to file a return and/or
failing to remit taxes shall be subject to the penalties listed in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest
and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article III. Any person determined to have violated any other
provisions of this Article shall be subject to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00
for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as committed
each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist
after notification thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any person to knowingly furnish
false or inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article shall in no
way bar the right of the County to institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty
due and owing as well as costs incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-858. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article or whenever this Article is silent, the
provisions of the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article
III shall apply and supplement this Article.

Sec. 74-859. - Rulemaking.

W The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and regulations necessary to carry out
the duties imposed upon it by this Article. Such rules, definitions, and regulations shall take into account
existing practices of sweetened beverage distributors and retailers for collection and remittance of the tax
herein levied. Such rules shall include but not be Limited to tax deductions/credits for breakage. spoilage,
spillage, sweetened beverage expiration, sweetened beverage destruction and tax free sales.
(b) OA or beforeAugtist 20, 20 17, e'.'ery retailer ofsweete0ed beverages doing busiAess iR the County
shaJl file with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a scworn tax retum reporting the iR'r'eRtory of
sweeteAed be·;erag€s ~'rup andtor powder on whieh the sweetened beverage ttm was Rot previously pa-id,
ffi their fJOssession or eoatrol OB JHBe 30, 2017. With said tax return, the retailer shall remit to the Cook
County Colleetor the taxes due \V itB res19ect to all sweetened be•o1erages, symp and/or powder, OR whi&lt-t:fle
sweetened beverage tait was Aot pFeViously i:iaiEI v1h ich »vere in the retailers possess ion on Jwie 30, 2017.
The retailer shall ia tuFB collect tee~ from its pHrchasers.

Page 16 of28

 Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect beginning March 1, 2017
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, to recommend
for approval as amended item 16-5931. The motion failed by the following vote (the item is not
recommended for approval to the Board of Commissioners):
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Butler, Garcia, Moody,
Moore, and Suffredin (8)

Nays:

Commissioners Boykin, Fritchey, Gainer, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, and
Tobolski (8)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

16-5932
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
FISCAL YEAR 2017 REVENUE INITIATIVE AND MODIFICATION OF FUTURE COOK COUNTY
HOME RULE AND PROPERTY TAXES
WHEREAS, since FY 2011, the overall full time employee positions ("FTE") have decreased by over 2,000 FTE's,
with the General, Health and Grant Funds realizing a 10% reduction since FY 2011; and
WHEREAS, through the passage of the FY 2016 Annual Appropriation Bill, Cook County Board President, Toni
Preckwinkle ("President") and the Cook County Board of Commissioners took significant steps to promote the
long-term sustainability of County government; and
WHEREAS, given the fiscal challenges facing the County in FY 2016, additional expenditure reductions and new
sources of revenue were implemented in order to begin to address the County's long-term needs in a responsible
manner so as not to unduly burden the children and grandchildren of current taxpayers with extensive debt and
unfunded pension liabilities; and
WHEREAS, despite efforts to continue to stream line services and hold the line on revenue increases in FY 2017,
the County's Preliminary Budget forecast released in June projected a budget shortfall of $174.3 million for FY
2017;and
WHEREAS, the fact remains that 87% of the County's operating budget goes to to Public Health and Public
Safety; revenues fail to keep pace with the rate of inflation; and technology, pharmaceutical and other costs have
exceeded the rate of inflation; and
WHEREAS, in order to continue to build a fiscally sound foundation with long term financial sustainability, efforts
have been undertaken in the proposed FY 2017 budget recommendation to further streamline County services;
reduce vacant and filled positions; prioritize the delivery of critical public safety and health services; and address
the County's revenue needs; and

Page 17 of28

 WHEREAS, the FY 2017 budget recommendation includes an additional one percent reduction in positions;
includes the layoff of 300 employees; implements non-personnel reductions and proposes various management
initiatives as cost saving measures; and
WHEREAS, the FY 2017 budget recommendation includes over $78 million in expenditure reductions; however,
to seek additional expenditure reductions would result in a significant impairment of our public health and public
safety operations; and
WHEREAS, in order to prevent devastating cuts to the County' s public safety and public health operations, a one
cent sweetened beverage tax is being sought to generate the funds needed to cover the remaining $74.6 million
deficit for FY 2017; and
WHEREAS, implementing a sweetened beverage tax on both sugar sweetened and artificially sweetened beverages
will not only allow the County to address various public safety and health funding needs but it is an important public
health initiative to discourage sweetened beverage consumption among youth and adults which over time should
assist in lowering obesity rates, preventing type 2 diabetes, reducing cardiovascular disease, reducing kidney decline
in women and reducing other serious health problems; and
WHEREAS, implementing a sweetened beverage tax on largely consumed sweetened beverages could result in
healthier beverage and food choices by both youth and adults and a healthier Cook County community long term;
and
WHEREAS, proposing a new revenue initiative, streamlining services, reducing vacant positions and
implementing layoffs are not easy choices; however, Cook County and its leadership must continue to act
responsibly to address the long-term needs of the County's residents and taxpayers and balance the proposed
sweetened beverage tax with cuts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners do
hereby support passing a one cent sweetened beverage tax in an effort to improve public health as well as cover the
remaining $74 million deficit for the FY 2017 budget and avoid devastating cuts to the County's public health and
public safety budgets; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the sweetened beverage tax revenue estimates for FY 2018 would allow the
County to maintain the proposed streamlined services levels recommended in the FY 2017 budget in FY 2018; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners do hereby
resolve upon passage of the proposed sweetened beverage tax, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners will not further increase any of the tax rates provided in the County's home rule tax ordinances in
FY 2017, FY 2018 or FY 2019 or deviate from the property tax restrictions provided in the County's Cook County
Property Tax Relief Ordinance as provided in Chapter 74, Article II, Section 74-38 of the County's Code of
Ordinances.

Legislative History: 10/13/16 Board of Commissioners refer to the Finance Committee

Page 18 of28

 A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Moore, to amend
16-5932. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ITEM 16-5932
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOHN P. DALEY, STANLEY MOORE, and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
FISCAL YEAR 2017 REVENUE INITIATIVE AND MODIFICATION OF FUTURE COOK
COUNTY HOME RULE AND PROPERTY TAXES
WHEREAS, since FY 2011, the overall full time employee positions ("FTE") have decreased by over
2,000 FTE's, with the General, Health and Grant Funds realizing a 10% reduction since FY 2011; and
WHEREAS, through the passage of the FY 2016 Annual Appropriation Bill, Cook County Board
President, Toni Preckwinkle ("President") and the Cook County Board of Commissioners took significant
steps to promote the long-term sustainability of County government; and
WHEREAS, given the fiscal challenges facing the County in FY 2016, additional expenditure reductions
and new sources of revenue were implemented in order to begin to address the County's long-term needs
in a responsible manner so as not to unduly burden the children and grandchildren of current taxpayers with
extensive debt and unfunded pension liabilities at the County Employees' and Officers' Annuity and
Benefit Fund of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, despite efforts to continue to stream line services and hold the line on revenue increases in
FY 2017, the County's Preliminary Budget forecast released in June projected a budget shortfall of $174.3
million for FY 2017; and
·
WHEREAS, the fact remains that 87% of the County's operating budget goes to Public Health and
Public Safety; revenues fail to keep pace with the rate of inflation; and technology, pharmaceutical and
other costs have historically exceeded the rate of inflation; and
WHEREAS, in order to continue to build a fiscally sound foundation with long term financial
sustainability, efforts have been undertaken in the proposed FY 2017 budget recommendation to further
streamline County services; reduce vacant and filled positions; prioritize the delivery of critical public
safety and health services; and address the County's revenue needs; and
WHEREAS, the FY 2017 budget recommendation includes an additional one percent reduction in
positions; includes the layoff of300 employees; implements non-personnel reductions and proposes various
management initiatives as cost saving measures; and
Page 19 of28

 WHEREAS, the FY 2017 budget recommendation includes over $78 million in expenditure reductions;
however, to seek additional expenditure reductions would result in a significant impairment of our public
health and public safety operations; and
WHEREAS, in order to prevent devastating cuts to the County's public safety and public health operations,
a one cent per ounce sweetened beverage tax is being sought to generate the funds needed to cover the
remaining $74.6 million deficit for FY 2017; and
WHEREAS, implementing a _sweetened beverage tax on both sugar sweetened and artificially sweetened
beverages will not only allow the County to address various public safety and health funding needs but it
is an important public health initiative to discourage sweetened beverage consumption among youth and
adults which over time should assist in lowering obesity rates, preventffig type 2 diabetes, redeeiag reduce
cardiovascular disease, redeeiag reduce kidney decline in women and redeeiag reduce other serious
health problems; and
WHEREAS, implementing a sweetened beverage tax on largely consumed sweetened beverages could
result in healthier beverage and food choices by both youth and adults and a healthier Cook County
community long term; and
WHEREAS, proposing a new revenue initiative, streamlining services, reducing vacant positions and
implementing layoffs are not easy choices; however, Cook County and its leadership must continue to act
responsibly to address the long-term needs of the County's residents and taxpayers and balance the proposed
sweetened beverage tax with cuts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners do hereby support passing a one cent per ounce sweetened beverage tax in an effort to
improve public health as well as cover the remaining $7 4 million deficit for the FY 2017 budget and avoid
devastating cuts to the County's public health and public safety budgets; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that following a three year fiscal forecast and planning exercise
undertaken by the Bureau of Finance, the sweetened beverage tax revenue estimates for FY 2018 and FY
2019 would allow the County to maintain the proposed streamlined services levels recommended in the FY
2017 budget in FY 2018 and 2019; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners do
hereby resolve upon passage, implementation and enforcement of the proposed sweetened beverage tax,
that the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners will not further increase any of the tax
rates provided in the County's home rule tax ordinances in FY 2017, FY 2018 or FY 2019 or deviate from
the property tax restrictions provided in the County's Cook County Property Tax Relief Ordinance as
provided in Chapter 74, Article II, Section 74-38 of the County's Code of Ordinances for at least the next
two ensuing fiscal years.

Page 20 of28

 A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Moore, to recommend
for approval as amended item 16-5932. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

16-5739
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
COOK COUNTY TAXATION PREDICTABILTY AMENDMENT
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74,
TAXATION, Article IV. - RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX, Sections 74-150 through 74-151 be amended as
follows:
ARTICLE IV. - RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
Sec. 74-150. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Home Rule County Retail Occupation Tax
Ordinance.

Sec. 74-151. - Imposed.
As authorized by 55 ILCS 5/5-1006 (home rule county retailers' occupation tax law), a tax is imposed Countywide
upon all persons in the County engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail, at the rate of
one and one-quarter percent ( 1.25%) through December 31, 2011; one percent ( 1% ) for the period of January 1,
2012 through December 31, 2012; three-quarters percent (0.75%) through December 31, 2015; and one and threequarters percent (1.75%) thereafter of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business. The
County Board may adopt an increase in the Retailers' Occupation_Tax if approved by a two-thirds vote of the
members of the County Board then holding office, provided that the County Board shaU not increase the Retailers
Occupation Tax for 36 months following any previous increase of such tax or any increase of the Cook County
Property Tax Leyy. The tax shall be paid in the manner provided in such statute.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that Chapter 74, TAXATION, Article V. - SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX,
Sections 74-190 through 74-191 be amended as follows:
ARTICLE V. - SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
Sec. 74-190. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Home Rule County Service Occupation Tax
Ordinance.

Page 21 of28

 Sec. 74-191. - Imposed.
As authorized by 55 ILCS 5/5-1007 (home rule county service occupation tax law), a tax is imposed Countywide
upon all persons in the County engaged in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one and one-quarter
percent ( 1.25%) through December 31 , 2011; one percent ( 1% ) for the period of January 1, 2012 through December
31, 2012; three-quarters percent (0.75%) through December 31, 2015; and one and three-quarters percent (l.75%)
thereafter of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceperson either in the form
of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service. The County Board may
adopt an increase in the Service Occupation Tax if approved by a two-thirds vote of the members of the County
Board then holding office. provided that the County Board shall not increase the Service Occupation Tax for 36
months following any previous increase of such tax or any increase of the Cook County Property Tax Leyy. The
tax shall be paid in the manner provided in such statute.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that Chapter 74, TAXATION, Article IL - REAL PROPERTY TAXATION,
Section 74-38 be amended as follows:
ARTICLE II. - REAL PROPERTY TAXATION
Sec. 74-38. - Limitation on aggregate levy.
(a) This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Property Tax Relief Ordinance.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in Subsections (c) and ( d) of this Section, the County Board shall not increase the
aggregate real estate tax levy for corporate, public safety and health (for purposes of this Section, the "aggregate
levy") for any year over the prior year's aggregate levy by an amount greater than five percent or the percentage
increase in the Consumer Price Index during the 12-month calendar year preceding the levy year, whichever is less.
For purposes of this Section, the term "Consumer Price Index" means the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers for all items published by the United States Department of Labor.
(c) The County Board may adopt an Aggregate Levy for any year in excess of the limitation set forth in Subsection
(b) of this Section if approved by a two-thirds vote of the members of the County Board then holding office.
(d) The County Board may increase the Aggregate Levy for any year in excess of the limitation set forth in
Subsection (b) of this Section to include the following pursuant to the procedure set forth in the Property Tax
Extension Limitation Law (35 ILCS 200/18-185 et seq.): (1) any property annexed into the County during the levy
year and (2) any new property created in the County during the levy year. For purposes of this Section, the term
"new property created" means the assessed value, after final Board of Appeals action, of new improvements or
additions to existing improvements on any parcel of real property that increase the assessed value of that real
property during the levy year.
~ The County Board shall not increase the Aggregate Levy in excess of the limitation set forth in Subsection (b)
for 36 months fo llowing any previous increase of such levy or any increase of the Cook County Retailers'
Occupation Tax and Service Occupation Tax.

Effective Date: This ordinance shall take effect upon adoption.

Page 22 of28

 Legislative History:
Legislative History:
Legislative History:
Legislative History:

10/5/16 Board of Commissioners refer to the Finance Committee
10/26/16 Finance Committee suspend the rules
10/26/16 Finance Committee amended
10/26/16 Finance Committee withdraw

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to suspend the
rules to consider an amendment to item 16-5739 submitted after the 24 hour deadline. The motion
carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to amend
16-5739. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

PROPOSED AMENDMENT 1 TO ITEM 16-5739 AS AMENDED
UPDATED TO INCLUDE ALL MEMBERS AS SPONSORS
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY and LARRY SUFFREDIN, TONI PRECKWINKLE, President,
JOHN P. DALEY, STANLEY MOORE, LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO JR., RICHARD
R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA, GREGG GOSLIN,
EDWARD M. MOODY, SEAN M. MORRISON, TIMOTHY 0. SCHNEIDER, PETER N.
SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
COOK COUNTY TAXATION PREDICTABILITY AND LONG-TERM FISCAL FORECASTING
AMENDMENT
NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
74, TAXATION, Article IV. - RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX, Sections 74-150 through 74 15114.:
154 be amended as follows:
ARTICLE IV. - RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX

Page 23 of28

 Sec. 74-150. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Home Rule County Retail Occupation
Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-151. - Imposed.
As authorized by 55 ILCS 5/5-1006 (home rule county retailers' occupation tax law), a tax is imposed
Countywide upon all persons in the County engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at
retail, at the rate of one and one-quarter percent (1.25%) through December 31, 2011; one percent (1%) for
the period of January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012; three-quarters percent (0.75%) through
December 31, 2015; and one and three-quarters percent (1.75%) thereafter of the gross receipts from such
sales made in the course of such business. +he Cm:Hfil' Board may adopt aa increase ia the R-etailers'
Gccupation Tax if approved by a two thirds vote of the m.embers oftJ:te Coooty Board theti holding office,
provided that the Cooety Bo!H·d shall not-iHcrease the Retailers' Occupatioe Tax for JG moo-Ois f:'oJJowisg
any previous iAerease of such tax or any in.crease of the Cook CouRty Property Tll* bevy. The tax shall be
paid in the manner provided in such statute.

Sec. 74-152. - Notification of the Illinois Department of Revenue.
The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to obtain and transmit a certified copy of this
Ordinance to the Illinois Department of Revenue not later than five days after its effective date, and in no
case later than October 1, 2015 so as to enable the Illinois Department of Revenue to proceed to administer
and enforce the modifications provided in this Ordinance, on behalf of the County of Cook, as of January
1, 2016.

Sec. 74-153. - Items used for feminine hygiene exempted.
The tax imposed in Section 74-151 shall not be imposed upon sales of the following items:
(a) Goods commonly sold at retail for the purpose of the collection and/or absorption, for disposal
of menstrual fluid including, but not limited to: tampons; daily liners; sanitary napkins; and
disposable and reusable menstruation cups.
(b)
Sec. 74-154. - Long term fiscal forecasting and limitation on tax imposed.

Page 24 of28

 BE IT.FURTHER ORDAINED, that Chapter 74, TAXATION, Article V. - SERVICE OCCUPATION
TAX, Sections 74-190 through 74 191 74-193 be amended as follows:
ARTICLE V. - SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
Sec. 74-190. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Home Rule County Service Occupation
Tax Ordinance.
Sec. 74-191. - Imposed.
As authorized by 55 ILCS 5/5-1007 (home rule county service occupation tax law), a tax is imposed
Countywide upon all persons in the County engaged in the business of making sales of service at the rate
of one and one-quarter percent (1.25%) through December 31, 2011; one percent (1 %) for the period of
January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012; three-quarters percent (0.75%) through December 31, 2015;
and one and three-quarters percent (1.75%) thereafter of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceperson either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real
estate as an incident to a sale of service. The Celmty Be!H'd may adept an iRerease iR the Serviee OeeupatieR
±ax if appro¥ed by a t'NO thirds vote of the members of tee-Getinty Board then balding effiee, pre•rided
that the Cm:1ntyBoa:rd shaLI not increase the Ser.·jee Ooeupation Tax for 36 mo:Rths follo•Ning any pre•;ious
increase of such tax or any increase of the Cook CoUHty Property Tax Levy. The tax shall be paid in the
manner provided in such statute.
Sec. 74-192. - Notification of the Illinois Department of Revenue.
The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to obtain and transmit a certified copy of this
Ordinance to the Illinois Department of Revenue not later than five days after its effective date, and in no
case later than October 1, 2015 so as to enable the Illinois Department of Revenue to proceed to administer
and enforce the modifications provided in this Ordinance, on behalf of the County of Cook, as of January
1, 2016.

Page 25 of28

 Sec. 74-193. - Long term fiscal forecasting and limitation on hL'1. imposed.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that Chapter 74, TAXATION, Article II. - REAL PROPERTY
TAXATION, Section 74-38 be amended as follows:
ARTICLE II. - REAL PROPERTY TAXATION
Sec. 74-38. - Limitation on aggregate levy.
(a) This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Property Tax Relief Ordinance.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in Subsections (c) and (d) of this Section, the County Board shall not
increase the aggregate real estate tax levy for corporate, public safety and health (for purposes of this
Section, the "aggregate levy") for any year over the prior year's aggregate levy by an amount greater than
five percent or the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the 12-month calendar year
preceding the levy year, whichever is less. For purposes of this Section, the term "Consumer Price Index"
means the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers for all items published by the United States
Department of Labor.
(c) The County Board may adopt an Aggregate Levy for any year in excess of the limitation set forth in
Subsection (b) of this Section if approved by a two-thirds vote of the members of the County Board then
holding office.

Page 26 of28

 (d) The County Board may increase the Aggregate Levy for any year in excess of the limitation set forth in
Subsection (b) of this Section to include the following pursuant to the procedure set forth in the Property
Tax Extension Limitation Law (35 ILCS 200/18-185 et seq.): (1) any property annexed into the County
during the levy year and (2) any new property created in the County during the levy year. For purposes of
this Section, the term "new property created" means the assessed value, after final Board of Appeals action,
of new improvements or additions to existing improvements on any parcel of real property that increase the
assessed value of that real property during the levy year.
e U __Qfi__ assa e ·
rcement of the
weetened
the the
County Board hall not increase the Aggregate Levy in excess of the limitation set forth in Subsection
(b) between tax years 2017.4018 and 2019. for 36 FaOfttAS foUowing afl)' previous illcrease of sech Je»ry or
any increase of the Gook County Retailers' Occupation Tax aAEi Service Oee@atio'fl Tax.

forecast as required herein.
Effective Date: This ordinance shall take effect upon adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Fritchey, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to
recommend for approval as amended 16-5739. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele ( 1)

Page 27 of28

 A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Moody, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moody, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (16)

Absent:

Commissioner Steele (1)

Respectfully submitted,

Page 28 of28

 