Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila,
Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia
M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of Finance
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner Patrick D.Thompson, President Kathleen
Therese Meany
Thursday, October 2, 2014

9:45 AM

Board Room

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

Call Meeting to Order
President Kathleen Therese Meany presiding, called the meeting to order at 9:45
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; and Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

1-

Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

1

Meeting Minutes

October 2, 2014

14-1133
Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will
hold a public hearing at 9:45 am. on the 2nd day of October, 2014 in the Board
Room at the Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois. The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public
comments on the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to
issue not to exceed $200,000,000 General Obligation Bonds (Alternate
Revenue Source) of the District to provide funds required for stormwater
management projects and purposes including, without limitation, the
development, design, planning and construction of regional and local
stormwater facilities provided for in the countywide stormwater management
plan, the acquisition of real property in furtherance of its regional and local
stormwater management activities and other related and incidental expenses.
By order of Kathleen Therese Meany, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago.
Dated the 22nd day of September, 2014.
/s/Jacqueline Torres
Clerk, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Frank Avila, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

The call of the meeting stated above and the foregoing
agenda item is hereby approved.
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President of the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

2

14-1155

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue
General Obligation Bonds (Alternate Revenue Source) in an amount not to
exceed $200,000,000
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Patrick D. Thompson, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Aye:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

1-

Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Open Discussion
Catherine A. O'Connor, Director of Engineering, presented a report to the Board on the
District's intention to issue General Obligation Bonds

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

October 2, 2014

Adjournment
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Patrick D. Thompson,
that this Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by unanimous
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays
/s/Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this October 2, 2014, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
October 2, 2014

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 