The Honorable,

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE HUMAN. RELATIONS

June 24, 2008

The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:
Absent:

Also Present:

ATTENDANCE
Chairman Quigley, Commissioners Collins, Maldonado and Suffredin (4)
Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Peraica and Steele (3)

Patrick DriscoIl, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Y0ur Committee on Human Relations of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Tuesday, June 24, 2008 at the hour of 09:30 AM in the Board Room,
Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

294614

AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY EMPLOYEE DOMESTIC
PARTNERSHIP BENEFITS RESOLUTION (PROPOSED RESOLUTION
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Resolution Amendment sponsored by
Todd H. Stroger, President and Mike Quigley, County Commissioner; Co-
sponsored by Forrest Claypool, Roberto Maldonado and Larry Suffredin, County
Commissioners.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Resolution Amendment:
PROPOSED RESOLUTION AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY EMPLOYEE
DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP BENEFITS RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners is committed to fairness
and nondiscrimination in the workplace; and

WHEREAS, the County of Cook, Illinois (?County?) is a home rUIe unit pursuant
to Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois and
is constitutionally authorized to exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, the recruitment, hiring, retention and compensation of County
Employees and the terms, privileges and conditions of their employment are
matters pertaining to the County's government and affairs; and

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE 2

WHEREAS, many private companies, including approximately 500 Fortune
1000 companies, and many units of local government, as well as numerous
colleges and universities, provide health insurance and other benefits to
Employees for their domestic partners; and

WHEREAS, the County desires to offer bene?ts similar to bene?ts offered by
private employers and other public employers to allow the County to attract and
retain high quality public sector employees; and

WHEREAS, the County has home rule authority to provide County Employees
with Qualified Domestic Partners, as defined herein, comparable bene?ts to
those the County provides to Employees with spouses.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I. TITLE

SECTION II. DEFINITIONS

SECTION BENEFITS AND ELIGIBILITY
SECTION IV. RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION V. SEVERABILITY

SECTION VI. EFFECTIVE DATE

This Resolution qoes
into effect immediately upon passage.

*Referred to the Committee on Human Relations on 6I17I08.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Maldonado, moved the approval of
Communication No. 294614. The motion carried.

AMENDMENT TO RESOLUTION 99-R-178
(Comm. No. 294614)

Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT,
COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS and THE HONORABLE MIKE QUIGLEY,
COUNTY COMMISSIONER

Co-Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO AND
LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

COOK COUNTY EMPLOYEE DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP BENEFITS RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners is committed to fairness and
nondiscrimination in the workplace; and

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE3

WHEREAS, the County of Cook, Illinois (?County?) is a home rule unit pursuant to
Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois and is constitutionally
authorized to exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and
affairs; and

WHEREAS, the recruitment, hiring, retention and compensation of County Employees
and the terms, privileges and conditions of their employment are matters pertaining to the
County's government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, many private companies, including approximately 500 Fortune 1000
companies, and many units of local government, as well as numerous colleges and universities,
provide health insurance and other bene?ts to Employees for their domestic partners; and

WHEREAS, the County desires to offer bene?ts similar to bene?ts offered by private
employers and other public employers to allow the County to attract and retain high quality

public sector employees; and

WHEREAS, the County has home rule authority to provide County Employees with
Quali?ed Domestic Partners, as de?ned herein, comparable bene?ts to those the County

provides to Employees with spouses.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION I - TITLE

This Resolution shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Employee
Domestic Partnership Bene?ts Resolution.

SECTION II - DEFINITIONS

As used in this Resolution:

A. ?Af?davit of Domestic Partnership? means an af?davit in the form speci?ed by the Chief
of the Bureau of Human Resources.

B. ?Employee" means a person who receives compensation from the County and is eligible
for Health Insurance Bene?ts and Leave Bene?ts.

C. ?Health Insurance Bene?ts? means all health insurance coverage, including vision and
dental insurance benefits and employee assistance program bene?ts that the County
provides to its Employees.

D. ?Leave Bene?ts" means leave that the County provides to its Employees.

E. ?Quali?ed Domestic Partner" means a person who is the domestic partner of an Employee
and who satisfies the conditions set forth in Section (C) of this Resolution.

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008

PAGE 4

SECTION - BENEFITS AND ELIGIBILITY

A.

An Employee who presents a satisfactory Af?davit of Domestic Partnership to the Chief of
the Bureau of' Human Resources shall be eligible to receive the same Health Insurance
Benefits for his or her domestic partner and the domestic partner?s unmarried dependents
as the County provides to an Employee for his or her spouse and the spouse?s unmarried
dependents.

An Employee who presents a satisfactory Af?davit of Domestic Partnership to the Chief
of the Bureau of Human Resources shall be eligible to receive the same Leave Bene?ts
with regard to his or her domestic partner or a member of the domestic partner's
immediate family as the County would provide to an Employee with regard to his or her
spouse or a member of the spouse?s immediate family.

An Employee shall be eligible to receive Health Insurance Bene?ts and Leave Benefits as
set forth above in Section (A) and (B) if the Employee and his or her domestic partner
state in an Af?davit of Domestic Partnership that:

1. The Employee and the domestic partner are each other's sole domestic partner and
each is responsible for the other's common welfare; and

2. Neither the Employee nor the domestic partner is married as marriage is de?ned
under Illinois law; and

3. The Employee and the domestic partner do not have a blood relationship that would
othen~ise bar marriage in the State of Illinois; and

4. Both the Employee and the domestic partner are at least 18 years of age, are the
same sex, and reside at the same residence; and

5. At least two of the following four conditions exist:

a. The Employee and the domestic partner have resided together during the twelve
(12) month period preceding the ?ling of the Af?davit of Domestic Partnership;

b. The Employee and the domestic partner own a residence in either common or
joint tenancy;

c. The Employee and the domestic partner have at least two of the following
arrangements:

i. A joint title to a motor vehicle;
ii. A joint credit account;
A joint checking aCcount;

iv. A lease for a residence identifying both the Employee and the domestic
partner as tenants;

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE 5

d. The domestic partner is identified as a primary beneficiary in the Employee's will.

The Employee and his or her domestic partner recognize that to remain eligible to
receive the Health Insurance Bene?ts and Leave Benefits as set forth in Sections 
(A) and (B) of this Resolution, the conditions set forth in the Af?davit of Domestic
Partnership must continue to be satis?ed.

The Employee must notify the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources in writing within
thirty (30) days of any change in the circumstances which have been attested to in the
Af?davit of Domestic Partnership. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such notice, or as
soon as practicable thereafter, the Chief shall issue a written determination as to
whether the Employee is eligible to receive Health Insurance Bene?ts and Leave
Bene?ts as set forth in Section (A) and (B) above. If the Chief determines that the
Employee is no longer qualified and eligible to receive these bene?ts, all bene?ts
accruing to the Employee?s domestic partner and the partner?s dependent children,
except those bene?ts accruing as a result of the Employee?s death, shall be terminated
no less than thirty (30) days after the date of the Chiefs written determination. The Chief
shall immediately provide written notice to the Employee and the domestic partner of this
termination.

SECTION IV - RULES AND REGULATIONS

The Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources is authorized to promulgate rules and

regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Resolution.

SECTION - SEVERABILITY

If any section, paragraph or provision of this Resolution shall be held to be invalid or

unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution.

SECTION VI - EFFECTIVE DATE

This resolution goes into effect immediately upon passage.

294613

AMENDMENT TO THE DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP REGISTRY ORDINANCE
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Todd H. Stroger, President and Mike Quigley,
County Commissioner; Co-sponsored by Forrest Claypool, Roberto Maldonado
and Larry Suffredin, County Commissioners.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP REGISTRY ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, Our society has created diverse living arrangements and an
expanded concept of the family unit; and

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008

PAGE6

WHEREAS, Many persons today live as families in enduring, committed
relationships other than legal marriages; and

WHEREAS, The County of Cook has an interest in supporting all caring.
committed and responsible family units; and

WHEREAS, The County also recognizes that it is in the public interest for
persons in committed relationships and who share common households to be

able to register those relationships formally; and

WHEREAS, Over 5,000 companies, foundations, unions, and nonprofit
organizations have domestic partnership bene?t programs; and

WHEREAS, Cook County would be providing a service to those companies,
foundations, unions and non-pro?ts in Cook County by creating an of?cial
depository of information with a government agency; and

WHEREAS, A government-issued certificate of registered domestic partnership
makes it easier for small businesses to provide benefits to all types of families,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 42 Human Relations, Sec. 42?70 through 42?78, of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 42-70. Short title.

Sec. 42-71. Definitions.

Sec. 42-72. Domestic partnership registration.

Sec. 42-73. Form of af?davit of domestic partnership.

Sec. 42-74. Amendment of affidavit of domestic partnership.
Sec. 42?75. Termination of registered domestic partnership.
Sec. 42-76. Fees.

Sec. 42-77. Obligations of new domestic partners.

Sec. 42-78. Records.

Effective Date: This ordinance amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
adoption.

*Referred to the Committee on Human Relations on 6/17/08.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Maldonado, moved the approval of
Communication No. 294613.

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE 7

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Maldonado, moved to accept the
Proposed Substitute Ordinance for Communication No. 294613. The motion carried.

SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE
(Comm. No. 294613)

DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP REGISTRY ORDINANCE

Sponsored By
THE HONORABLE TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT,
COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, and MIKE QUIGLEY,
COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONER

Co-Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO AND
LARRY SUFFREDIN, COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

WHEREAS, Our society has created diverse living arrangements and an expanded concept of
the family unit; and

WHEREAS, Many persons today live as families in enduring, committed relationships other than
legal marriages; and

WHEREAS, The County of Cook has an interest in supporting all caring, committed and
responsible family units; and

WHEREAS, The County also recognizes that it is in the public interest for persons in committed
relationships and who share common households to be able to register those relationships

formally; and

WHEREAS, Over 5,000 companies, foundations, unions,? and nonprofit organizations have
domestic partnership bene?t programs; and

WHEREAS, Cook County would be providing a service to those companies, foundations, unions
and non-pro?ts in Cook County by creating an of?cial depository of information with a

government agency; and

WHEREAS, A government-issued certificate of registered domestic partnership makes it easier
for small businesses to provide benefits to all types of families,

THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, AN
ORDINANCE to assure that individuals shall be able to register their domestic partnerships with
the Cook County Clerk.

DEFINITIONS

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE 8

For purposes Of this chapter ordinance:

1.

A ?domestic partnership" shall mean the relationship Of two unmarried adults Of
the same sex not married as marriage is defined under Illinois law who meet
the additional criteria set forth in this ordinance.

A ?domestic partner" shall refer to each person in a domestic partnership.

A ?registered domestic partnership? shall mean domestic partnerships which
have been properly registered in the Office of the County Clerk by the means set
forth in this chapter ordinance and which have not been terminated under this

chapter ordinance.

A ?registered domestic partner" shall refer to each person in a registered
domestic partnership.

An ?affidavit of domestic partnership? shall mean an affidavit prepared by the
Office Of the County Clerk in accordance with procedures adopted by the County
Clerk to verify that domestic partners meet the requirements Of this chapter
ordinance to become registered domestic partners. The procedures Of the
County Clerk with regard to such affidavits shall be adopted by the effective date
Of this legislation.

An ?affidavit Of termination" shall mean an affidavit on a form prepared by the
Office Of the County Clerk in accordance with procedures adopted by the County
Clerk to effect termination of a registered domestic partnership by a registered
domestic partner in accordance with this chapter?ordinance. The procedures of
the County Clerk with regard tO such af?davits shall be adopted by the effective
date Of this legislation.

DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP REGISTRATION

1 .

In order to register a domestic partnership, the domestic partners shall jointly
execute an affidavit Of domestic partnership before a notary public and ?le the
affidavit in the Of?ce Of the County Clerk.

In addition to identifying information, each person executing an affidavit of
domestic partnership must declare under penalty of perjury that:
a. Neither domestic partner is legally married as marriage is
defined under 

 

b. Each domestic partner is eighteen (18) years Of age or older;

0. Each domestic partner is competent to enter into a contract;

d. The domestic partners are not related by blood in a manner that
would bar marriage in the State Of Illinois;

e. The domestic partners share a common household within Cook

CountyI or one domestic partner is employed tO work within Cook
County;

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008

PAGE 9

f. The domestic partners are in a close and committed relationship
of mutual financial and emotional support and intend to remain in
such a relationship;

9. Each is the other?s sole domestic partner and intends to remain
each other?s sole domestic partner;
h. Neither domestic partner was in a registered domestic partnership

that has terminated by operation of law within the thirty (30) calendar
days immediately prior to the ?ling of the af?davit of domestic
partnership; and

i. Each domestic partner agrees to ?le an af?davit of termination in
accordance with this ehaptemrdinance, including written notice to
the other, in the event that any of the above no longer applies. .

3. A registered domestic partnership shall be established and effective upon the
filing of a fully executed af?davit of domestic partnership with the Of?ce of the
County Clerk and payment of any required fees.

4. A Certi?cate of Domestic Partnership will be issued at the time of filing of the
af?davit and payment of fees.

FORM OF AFFIDAVIT OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP

All af?davits relating to the domestic partnership shall be executed on a form provided by
the Of?ce of the County Clerk. The affidavit of domestic partnership shall contain the following
information and shall be in substantially the following form:

We, the undersigned, do hereby declare ourselves to be domestic
partners. We are both eighteen years of age or older, unmarried
as marriage is de?ned under Illinois law and competent'to
enter into a contract. We are not related by blood in a manner
that would bar marriage under the laws of the State of Illinois. We
share a common household. We are in a close and committed
relationship of mutual ?nancial and emotional support and intend
to remain in the relationship. We are each other's sole domestic
partner, have no other domestic partner and intend to remain each
other's sole domestic partner. Neither of us has terminated
another registered domestic partnership within the last thirty
calendar days. Each of us agrees to ?le a termination statement
in the event that the domestic partnership is terminated.

AMENDMENT OF AFFIDAVIT OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP

Either domestic partner may, on a form provided by the County Clerk, amend an af?davit
of domestic partnership filed with the Office of the County Clerk at any time to re?ect a change
in the information previously provided to the County Clerk.

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008

PAGE 10

TERMINATION OF REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP

1.

FEES

Either or both registered domestic partners may seek?ta terminate a registered domestic
partnership by filing in the Of?ce of the County Clerk a notarized affidavit of termination
declaring under penalty of perjury, that the domestic partnership is terminated, and if
only one of the registered domestic partners executes the affidavit of termination, that he
or she has sent written notice that he or she is terminating the registered domestic
partnership to the other registered domestic partner at the other partner?s last known
address, by means of registered mail, return receipt requested.

A registered domestic partnership shall terminate by operation of law:
immediately upon either of the registered domestic partners marrying, 
marriage is defined Illinois law: or if does not apply, than thirty (30)
calendar days after the earliest date that one or both registered domestic
partners has ?led an executed af?davit of termination or (9) either of the
registered domestic partners has died.

The affidavit of domestic partnership, certi?cate of domestic partnership and affidavit of
termination forms will reflect the information in this ahaptepordinance as to when
registered domestic partnerships commence and terminate by operation of law.

An af?davit of termination may be rescinded by a registered domestic partner until the
time that termination would otherwise take effect. Nothing in this chapter ordinance
prevents former registered domestic partners from ?ling a new affidavit of domestic
partnership if they satisfy the requirements of this chapter ordinance.

The County Clerk shall set reasonable fees of not more than $30 to be charged for the
(1 ?ling (2) amendment to, or (3) termination of, a domestic partnership registration.
Upon payment of the aforesaid fee, the individual(s) shall receive two (2) certi?ed copies
of the applicable document. The fee for obtaining additional certified copies of the
applicable document shall be the fee customarily charged by the County Clerk for
obtaining additional certified copies of documents filed with the office of the County

Clerk.

OBLIGATIONS OF NEW DOMESTIC PARTNERS

1.

When a domestic partnership has ended, each of the partners to the domestic
partnership shall jointly or separately ?le an affidavit of termination within thirty (30) days
with the Office of the County Clerk.

All registered domestic partners shall, within thirty (30) days of any change in that status,
give notice to any party who, in order to qualify the domestic partner for a benefit or right,
relied upon or was given a copy of the af?davit of domestic partnership.

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE 11

RECORDS

1. The County Clerk shall maintain a log of registrations, amendments, certi?cates, and
terminations of domestic partnerships by name of each individual and date of filing in a
format designed to facilitate access to such statements. The log shall be a public record
pursuant to the State of Illinois Freedom of. Information Act. The County Clerk shall treat
any? other information of a personally identifying nature relating to any individual as a
matter of personal privacy exempt from disclosure under the State of Illinois Freedom of
Information Act.

2. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics pertaining to
domestic partnerships that have been registered with the Office of the County Clerk.

SEVERABILITY

If any section of this ordinance or the application thereof to any individual, partnership, or
circumstance shall be adjudged invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such order or judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder thereof,
but shall be con?ned in its operation to the controversy in which such order or judgment was

rendered.

EFFECTIVE DATE

This ordinance shall take effect immediatelv upon passaqe.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Maldonado, moved the approval of
the Proposed Substitute Ordinance (Comm. No. 294613). The motion carried.

 

HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JUNE 24, 2008
PAGE 12

Commissioner Suffredin moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Collins. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Human Rel

  
    

i Quigley,

Attest:

f?z??a

Ma'tth?w B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

