Forest Preserves of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Council
May 18, 2016
8:30 am to 9:30 am: Pre-meeting Visit to Deer Grove East Restoration
Meet at Camp Reinberg, 1801 N Quentin Rd, Palatine, IL 60074 map
10 am to noon: Council Meeting at Camp Reinberg ▪ 1801 N Quentin Rd, Palatine, IL 60074 map
Noon to 2 pm: Cookout and/or bike ride through Deer Grove West

AGENDA
10 am

1. Welcome & Introductions
2. Comments from the public
3. Approval of minutes for 3.17.16 meeting of the Council (See attachment 1.)

10:15 am

4. Building a Community of Support
a. Goals & Challenges
b. Market Research
c. Marketing Strategy
d. Making the Case

10:45 am
11:00 am

e. Discussion
5. Efficient/Effective Use of Resources
a. Goals & Challenges
b. How can we increased earned revenue?
c. How can we increase philanthropic support?
d. Case studies

11:40 am
12 pm

e. Discussion
6. Adjourn

ATTACHMENT 1:

Minutes for 3.17.16 council meeting.

1

 ATTACHMENT 1
The Forest Preserves of Cook County

Conservation & Policy Council
Minutes for March 17, 2016 ▪ Tyner Center, 2400 Compass Road, Glenview, IL

Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 10 a.m. The following
Council members and others attended:
Advisory Council Members
Wendy Paulson, Chair
Falona Joy, Vice Chair
Mark Templeton, Secretary
Laurel Ross
Michael De Santiago
Rob Castaneda
Peter Ellis, Terry Guen, Sylvia
Jenkins, Linda Mastandrea, and
Commissioner Robert Steele did
not attend.

Forest Preserve Staff
Arnold Randall
Eileen Figel
Cathy Geraghty
Presenters
John McCabe, FPCC Director of Resource Management
Geoff Levin, Former Director, IL Natural History Survey
Charles O’Leary, FPCC Deputy Director of Resource Mgmt.
Troy Showerman, FPCC Resource Project Manager
Pete Jackson, Volunteer Steward
Tom Vanderpoel, Citizens for Conservation

Representatives of the Chicago Botanic Garden, Brookfield Zoo, Audubon Chicago, Openlands, Friends of
the Forest Preserves, the Field Museum and other partners and FPCC staff also attended. A complete list
of attendees is attached.
Public Comments. There were no comments from the public.
Approval of Minutes. A motion was made by Laurel Ross and seconded by Michael DeSantiago to
approve the minutes of the 1.26.16 meeting; the minutes were approved unanimously.
Restoration Goals and Costs. Mark Templeton explained the need to look for new approaches to
achieve the ambitious goal of restoring 30,000 acres to ecological health. Staff and partners discussed
the following opportunities and challenges.


Natural and Cultural Resource Management Plan. Geoff Levin explained that the Natural and
Cultural Resources Master Plan establishes the first system-wide restoration strategy for the
forest preserves. Many FPCC sites are considered habitat fragments, and a major objective of
the plan is to create larger, more connected parcels. In addition, less disturbed areas
(remnants) within these FPCC sites often contain greater natural community and species
diversity and are easier to restore to high quality. These sites are, therefore, high priorities for
restoration. In total, the plan identifies 30,000 acres to be restored to Illinois Natural Areas
Inventory grade A or B quality.



Current Restoration Efforts. Troy Showerman explained that FPCC spent $2.08 million on
restoration in 2015. This does not include partner projects (unless FPCC provided matching
funds to a contractor), or the time invested by staff, volunteers, and the conservation corps. It
2

 does include grant money received by FPCC to fund contractor work. Currently 600 acres of
FPCC holdings are at grade A or B quality.


Estimated Cost to Restore 30,000 Acres. The current estimated cost to restore 30,000 acres
(including initial work by contractors, maintenance, prescribed fire, seeding, hydrological
assessments and deer management) is $652 million over 25 years, or $26 million per year. (This
does not include staff time or volunteer time.) At the current rate of spending and with roughly
the same number of acres improved per dollar spent, FPCC will restore approximately 5000
acres over 25 years, falling far short of the NCCP goal to restore 30,000 acres.



Deer Grove Volunteers. Pete Jackson described how the Deer Grove volunteers have invested
17,000 hours in the past ten years to remove invasive species, collect and sow seeds, and
monitor results of their work. In addition to clearing 70 acres in Deer Grove West, the
volunteers serve as ambassadors for the forest preserves by engaging churches, scouts, schools
and other community groups.



Citizens for Conservation (CFC). Tom Vanderpoel provided an overview of the restoration work
CFC is engaged in throughout the region. In 2014, CFC completed over 100 workdays at 9 sites.
They invested over 3600 hours of stewardship labor, collected over 300 pounds of seed, and
seeded 565 acres. Tom described two major roadblocks to restoration efforts, including: (i) the
demand for seed, both in terms of volume and diversity, and (ii) the number of volunteers.



Grades A and B Natural Areas. Rob Castaneda asked for a definition of Grade A and Grade B
natural areas. Geoff Levin explained that a system of five letter grades (A being best and E being
worst) is used to define the quality of natural areas. Grade A includes pristine sites which are in
the condition that existed prior to European settlement. Most FPCC land is Grade C and has
some potential for restoration. Eileen Figel was asked to provide a brief chart summarizing
these definitions. (See attached chart.)



Leveraging Volunteers and other Partners. Michael DeSantiago expressed concern about the
gap between resources needed and resources available. He asked how volunteers,
corporations, and other partners can be tapped to help fill this gap. Benjamin Cox explained
that Friends of the Forest Preserves (FoFP) works with corporations and is using Busse Woods as
a pilot to expand corporate partnerships. FoFP offers corporations a workday with team
building exercises. The goal is to get the corporation to adopt a site by supplying volunteers or
funding the work. Council members noted that engagement of and support from surrounding
communities is critical to long term success. Wendy Paulson noted that FPCC has developed a
great model, but the model must be expanded. Laurel Ross added that two types of volunteers
are needed—committed leaders like Pete Jackson and Jane Balaban who have broad knowledge
and devote enormous amounts of time and individuals who want to participate through their
church, scout group, etc.



Retaining Volunteers and Grooming New Leaders. Benjamin Cox stated that there are too few
empowered leaders who can move this work forward. Benjamin explained that the Centennial
Volunteers program recruits and trains volunteers. The other major goal is to identify potential
leaders and build their capacity. Tom Vanderpoel added that how people are treated is critical
to retention. In addition, volunteers have to see success and understand how their work fits
into the bigger picture.



Building a Community of Support. Stuart Strahl noted that much of the funding for restoration
work will come through tax payers, and many of these residents have not been introduced to
the forest preserves. Visitors to the Zoo, the Field Museum, and other institutions are people
3

 who are pre-disposed to support conservation; therefore, staff must be empowered to engage
these visitors. Arnold Randall stated that restoring and maintaining the land is the most
important function of FPCC. Arnold explained that FPCC has dedicated staff and volunteers.
FPCC has also tapped experts across the conservation field and gathered enormous amounts of
information. The next challenge is to use this information to build a community of support
without overwhelming the target audiences. Wendy Paulson added that the numbers can also
be demoralizing and asked if there are avenues for accomplishing the work despite the high
costs.


Asset Mapping. Falona Joy stated that it is helpful to see the level of expertise and rigor being
applied to the restoration work, but suggests that the information needs to be more “bite size.”
Falona suggests defining resources needed by region, mapping assets (such as potential funding
and prospective partners) by region, then developing a model for each area to tap assets and
build collaboration to raise resources needed so restoration efforts can continue to move
forward over the next five years. Falona also suggests exploring the possibility of incubating a
friends group for each area to support fundraising and restoration work. Eileen Figel explained
that FPCC and partners have begun mapping large employers and other regional assets near
Busse and this might serve as a good model. Justin Pepper described efforts to identify
challenges and use resources in a coordinated and efficient way within the Palos, Busse, and
Calumet regions. Justin suggested that all three of these areas may be good models.

Optional fieldtrips. Wendy Paulson and Eileen Figel described two optional fieldtrips which will be
offered to Council members—a spring trip to Bluff Spring Fen and a fall trip to the Cal Sag trail. Eileen
Figel will send Doodle requests for each trip. Laurel Ross suggested asking Doug Taron the best time to
visit Bluff Spring Fen.
Adjournment. The meeting was adjourned at 12 p.m.

4

 Attachment 1A

Attendance at Conservation and Policy Council Meeting; March 17, 2016
Council Members
Wendy Paulson
Falona Joy
Laurel Ross
Mark Templeton
Michael DeSantiago
Rob Castenada

FPCC Staff
Arnold Randall
Eileen Figel
Cathy Geraghty
Anthony Tindall
Brittany Baumer
Chip O’Leary
Chris Adas
Cynthia Moreno

Erik Varela
John McCabe
Karen Vaughan
Lydia Uhlir
Mary Pat Cross
Staci Stegner
Steve Hughes
Troy Showerman

Partners
Andrew Szwak
Benjamin Cox
Emily Harris
Geoff Levin
Ginny Hotaling
Greg Mueller
Jane Balaban
Justin Pepper
Laura Bynum
Mark Bouman
Patrick Blanchard
PC Wang
Pete Jackson
Rebeccah Sanders
Richard Gamble
Shelley Davis
Stuart Strahl
T.J. Bensen
Tom Vanderpoel

Openlands
Friends of the Forest Preserves
Chicago Community Trust
Prairie Research Institute
Chicago Botanic Garden
Chicago Botanic Garden
North Branch Steward
Bobolink Foundation
The Field Museum
The Field Museum
County
University of Chicago Law School
Deer Grove Steward
Audubon Chicago Region
Brookfield Zoo
Forest Preserve Foundation
Brookfield Zoo
Illinois Natural History Survey
Citizens for Conservation

5

 Attachment 1B: GRADING THE QUALITY OF NATURAL AREAS
The following summary is an excerpt from the ILLINOIS NATURAL AREAS INVENTORY UPDATE GRADING
HANDBOOK. A complete copy of the Natural Quality Grades is available at:
http://wwx.inhs.illinois.edu/files/6213/4021/9269/Pt2_Appendix1.pdf

The Illinois Natural Areas Inventory (INIA) establishes grades designed to measure the effects of
disturbance and/or degradation to a natural community. Several environmental indicators are used to
evaluate and rate natural community quality, including species lists, presence of conservative or
indicator species, community structure, observations of community function, and evidence of
degradation (e.g. grazing, logging). Grades used by the INAI are summarized below.

A

Very high quality natural community. Exhibits native species composition, structure, and
function with no or very minimal signs of degradation.

B

High quality natural community. A community that has (1) experienced some
degradation, but whose composition and structural integrity is intact, or (2) historically
experienced moderate to heavy degradation, but has recovered significantly to where it
possesses the structure of a complete and functional community.

C

Medium quality natural community. Has experienced either (1) moderate to heavy
degradation and may or may not be in the process of recovering its composition, structure,
and function, but possesses restoration potential appropriate for a complete and
functional community of that type, or (2) severe degradation and has recovered the
structure and function of the community. Degradation of Grade C communities can be so
great that its species composition, structure, and function have been significantly altered,
but it possesses restoration potential for improvement or maintenance at this grade.

D

Low quality natural community. A Grade D community has been so severely degraded
that its structure and function have been significantly altered. The community may be
undergoing rapid succession, or if the disturbance is unnatural and constant (e.g. continual
grazing), the community may be held in a constant degraded state. A Grade D community
typically can only be rehabilitated through replacing and supplementing species
composition and structure and significant management efforts.

E

Very severely disturbed natural community. In Grade E communities, the original
community has been destroyed or removed. A Grade E community can only be reclaimed
through total reconstruction of a community starting from scratch.

6

 