REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE

January 8, 2008

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Butler, Maldonado,
Quigley and Schneider (6)

Ex-Officio Members: Laura A. Burman Cook County Auditor; and Donna
L. Dunnings Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance (2)

Absent: Commissioner Gorman 1)

Also Present: Commissioners Beavers and Peraica Alexis A. Herrera Budget Director,
Office of the Sheriff; Lisa M. Walik Director, Department of Risk
Management; Earl Dunlap Transitional Administrator, Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center; Karen Crawford Director, President?s Office of
Employment Training John Cookinham Chief Financial Of?cer,
Bureau of Health Services; Kelvin Magee Comptroller, Stroger Hospital of
Cook County; Pat Hagan Regional Managing Partner, Public Sector
Industry, Deloitte Touche, Jeffrey Sirkin Senior Consultant and
Actuary with ARM Tech, a subsidiary of AON Consulting, Inc.; and Michele
Greco Partner, Ernst Young LLP

Court Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to
notice on Tuesday, January 8, 2008 at the hour of 1:00 PM. in the Board Room, Room 569,
County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

Chairman Daley asked Donna Dunnings, Chief Financial Officer, to provide an overview of the
audits pertaining to the County.

Ms. Dunnings provided an overview of accomplishments and goals. She stated that there is
now a Director of Financial Reporting in the Comptroller?s office, Faissal Abassi, who is
responsible for coordinating all auditing functions for the County. Additionally, Wrunda Bates
and Lillian Adarmes have been assigned to the Fixed Asset area, an area in which the County
has been deficient in previous audits.

Chairman Daley entered into the record letters to the Chief Financial Of?cer, Donna Dunnings,
Dr. Robert Simon, Interim Chief, Bureau of Health Services, and the Honorable Maria Pappas,
Treasurer of Cook County.

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 8, 2008
PAGE 2

288051 INDEPENDENT REPORT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT,
Maria Pappas, Cook County Treasurer by John P. Dalen, Director of Internal
Audit, transmitting a Communication, dated June 12, 2007:

The Office of the County Treasurer is pleased to submit to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners the Independent Auditor's Report of the Financial
Statement as of November 30, 2006 and 2007 2005.

Referred to the Audit Committee, as amended on 7/10/07.

In response to an inquiry from Commissioner Quigley pertaining to future usage of the JD.
Edwards system, Ms. Dunnings stated that she is working on an assessment with the Chief
Information Officer, Antonio HyIton. Ms. Dunnings expects to report to the Board on the
assessment by June 1, 2008.

Chairman Daley stated that the report would be sent to the Finance Committee for further
discussion.

Commissioner Quigley, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to receive and ?le
Communication Number 288051, as amended. The motion carried.

290372 SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY, Thomas J. Dart, by Alexis A. Herrera, Budget
Director, transmitting a Communication:

requesting permission to write-off from the Eviction Fee Fund $1,312.00 in non-
collectible checks dated between August 28, 2003 through December 7, 2004.

Referred to the Audit Committee on 11/6/07.

Alexis A. Herrera, Budget Director for the Of?ce of the Sheriff, provided the Committee
members with an overview of the collection procedures followed. Ms. Herrera stated three
attempts are made by mail, followed by an attempt in person from Sheriff's personnel. Ms.
Herrera commented the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and the Office of the Sheriff are
currently working on the implementation of NSF check reporting for the Sheriff?s Office into the
Clerk?s ARDC system. Ms. Herrera believes this will significantly reduce the amount of non-
collectible checks.

Chairman Daley asked the Sheriff?s Office to ascertain the cost of printing the names of the
attorneys presenting NSF checks in the Law Bulletin. Ms. Herrera responded she would
provide the committee with the cost.

Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Quigley, moved the approval of
Communication Number 290372. The motion carried.

290552

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 8, 2008
PAGE 3

BUREAU OF FINANCE, by Donna L. Dunnings, Chief Financial Officer,
transmitting a Communication, dated November 13, 2007:

Subject: Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for the Year Ended
November 30, 2006

submitting herewith a copy of Cook County?s Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report (CAFR) for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006, prepared by
Deloitte Touche, LLP. I am requesting that the report be referred to the Audit
Committee for further consideration.

Referred to the Audit Committee on 11/20/07.

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to receive and file
Communication Number 290552. The motion carried.

290824

DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT, by Lisa M. Walik, Director,
transmitting a Communication, dated November 20, 2007:

Re: Actuarial Analysis FY 2006

The Department of Risk Management respectfully submits a copy of the
Actuarial Analysis for the fiscal year ending November 30 2006, prepared by
ARM Tech, a subsidiary of Aon Corporation. I am requesting that the report be
referred to the Audit Committee for further consideration.

Referred to the Audit Committee on 12/4/07.

In response to an inquiry from Commissioner Peraica in reference to page 12 of the analysis
regarding the overall sum of settlements for last year, Jeffrey Sirkin, representing ARM Tech,
stated the figures reflected for the years 2008 and 2009 are projections.

Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Quigley, moved to receive and file
Communication Number 290824. The motion carried.

291097

BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES 2006 AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT LETTER.
Transmitting a Communication, dated December 7, 2007 from Robert R. Simon,
M.D., Interim Chief, Bureau of Health Services:

submitting herewith a copy of the Cook County Bureau of Health Service?s 2006
Audit and Management Letter for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006
which was prepared by Ernst Young, LLP and the responses from Bureau
Management relating to the Bureau of Health Annual Financial Audit Report for
the ?scal year ended November 30, 2006. I respectfully request that the reports

be forwarded to the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners for further
discussion.

Referred to the Audit Committee, as amended on 12/18/07.

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 8, 2008
PAGE4

Chairman Daley noted that the percentage of self-pay patients in 2006 increased to 52%, from
47% in 2005. He asked Mr. Cookinham how this increase would affect the Bureau of Health
Services.

Mr. Cookinham replied that there would be a reduction in patient revenue. He added that there
would be efforts to try to increase eligibility.

Commissioner Peraica inquired as to the anticipated patient revenues in 2008 after all eligibility
is exhausted.

Mr. Cookinham responded that the higher November 2007 patient revenues may not be

sustained in future months, but that he would get back to the Committee members with
additional information.

Vice Chairman Goslin restated that 47%-52% of the patients served by the Bureau of Health
Services have no ability to pay. The best the Bureau expects in the future would be 43%-44%

of patients that do not have the ability to pay. He restated these figures to emphasize the
problem with the Bureau is systemic.

Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Quigley, moved to receive and
file Communication Number 291097, as amended. The motion carried.

291098 COOK COUNTY SINGLE AUDIT REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED
NOVEMBER 30, 2006. Transmitting a Communication dated November 28,
2007 from Donna L. Dunnings, Chief Financial Of?cer, Bureau of Finance:

Subject: Single Audit Report for the Fiscal Year ended Nevember 30, 2006

submitting a copy of the County Single Audit Report, applicable to our major
federal grant programs, for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006, prepared
by the Bureau of Finance and audited by Washington, Pittman McKeever,
LLC. As part of this report, I am also including a copy of the County?s Basic
Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2006 and
Independent Auditor's Report. I respectfully request that these reports be
fonivarded to the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners for further
discussion.

Referred to the Audit Committee on 12/18107.

Earl Dunlap, Transitional Administrator of the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, provided
the Committee members with a brief overview of strategies and mechanisms that have been put
in place at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center since his appointment as Transitional
Administrator. These actions address many of the issues discussed in the Audit Report. Mr.
Dunlap also stated that as of January 14, 2008, the Office of the Chief Judge will be responsible
for certain functions for the JTDC, such as purchasing, procurement, and payroll.

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 8, 2008
PAGE 5

Karen Crawford, Director of the President's Of?ce of Employment Training (POET), reviewed
some of the policies and procedures recently adopted by POET as a result of issues brought up
in the Audit Report.

Commissioner Peraica requested additional information related to the nature of the audit
adjustments totaling over $61 million for the Bureau of Health Services for the ?scal year ending
November 30, 2006.

John Cookinham, Chief Financial Officer of the Bureau of Health Services responded that the
Bureau of Health Services was not preparing quarterly or bi-annual financial
statements; only annual statements were prepared. Due to this, some adjustments were
necessary. Mr. Cookinham stated the Bureau of Health Services currently is working to prepare
statements.

Additional information pertaining to the audit adjustments for the Bureau of Health Services was
given by Michele Greco, Partner with Ernst Young, and Kelvin Magee, Comptroller of Stroger
Hospital of Cook County.

Commissioner Butler, seconded by Vice Chairman Goslin, moved to receive and file
Communication Number 291098. The motion carried.

291099 COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS 2006 MANAGEMENT LETTER FOR FISCAL
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2006. Transmitting a Communication dated
November 28, 2007 from Donna L. Dunnings, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of
Finance:

Subject: Cook County, Illinois - 2006 Management Letter for Fiscal Year
ended November 30, 2006

submitting a copy of the County?s 2006 Management Letter for fiscal year ended
November 30, 2006, prepared by Deloitte Touche, LLP and responses from
County Management relating to the Cook County Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report for fiscal year ended November 30, 2006 previously submitted.
I respectfully request that these reports be forwarded to the Audit Committee of
the Board of Commissioners for further discussion.

Referred to the Audit Committee on 12/18/07.

In response to a question from Commissioner Peraica regarding the implementation of GASB
45, Ms. Dunnings replied GASB 45 would be implemented in the year 2008. Pat Hagan,
Regional Managing Partner, Public Sector Industry of Deloitte Touche, commented on GASB
45, and its impact on governments nationwide. He further stated GASB 45 requires that health
premium obligations for retirees be part of the audited ?nancial statements.

Commissioner Quigley, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to receive and ?le
Communication Number 291099. The motion carried.

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
JANUARY 8, 2008
PAGES

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

Commissioner Butler moved to adjourn the meeting, which motion was duly seconded.
The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 288051
Communication Number 290372
Communication Number 290552
Communication Number 290824
Communication Number 291097
Communication Number 291098
Communication Number 291099

 

M19175 22L

Uw B. DeLeon, Secretary

Received and Filed, as amended
Approved

Received and Filed

Received and Filed

Received and Filed, as amended
Received and Filed

Received and Filed

Respectfully submitted,
Audit Committee


P. Daley, Chairma?/

The transcript and audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary
to the Board, 118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

JOHN P. DALEY
CHAIRMAN
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

 

OFFICE OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
m3 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603-4400

January 8, 2008

Dr. Robert Simon

Cook County Bureau of Health
1900 W. Polk St

Chicago IL 60612

Dear Dr. Simon:

Please provide a written response to the following questions regarding the Heath Facilities
Management Letter and Annual Financial Statements, scheduled to be discussed at the Audit
Committee on January 8, 2008.

l. The Bureau?s self-pay percentage increased from 47% of the patients in 2005, to 52% in
2006. Do you project that this trend will continue, and if so, what is the projected self-
pay rate for 2008?

2. What is the primary cause of the $155 million decrease in net assets, referred to on page
4 of the Management Letter?

3. During 2006, a total of 34 audit adjustments were required to correct errors that were
entered in the Bureau?s books. What steps have been taken to reduce the number of
accounting errors that require restatement?

4. Please describe the steps taken to improve security and access control within the SMS
and SoftMed applications.

Thank you for your attention to this inquiry.
Sincerely,



.iairman John P. Daley
Audit Committee

   



JOHN P. DALEY

CHAIRMAN
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

 

OFFICE OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
118 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60.602
(312) 603-4400

January 8, 2008

The Hon. Maria Pappas
Cook County Treasurer
118 N. Clark St.
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Treasurer Pappas:

Please provide a written response for the record of the Audit Committee?s January 8, 2008
meeting regarding issues raised by the Independent Auditors Report for your of?ce, as follows:

1. Do you project that any surplus above $5 million in the Unknown Heirs Fund will be

available for escheatment into county general funds during Fiscal Year 2008? If so, what
is your estimate of that amount?

2. Of the $1.3 million in undistributed taxes remaining as of November 30, 2006, (see page
14) how much of that sum was distributed in 2007 according to the formula for
determining which taxing bodies are entitled to receive disbursements?

Thank you for your attention to this inquiry.

Sincerely,



.. airman John P. ey

Audit Committee

  



JOHN P. DALEY
CHAIRMAN
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

 

OFFICE OF THE

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
118 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603-4400

January 8, 2008

Ms. Donna Dunnings
Chief Financial Of?cer
118 N. Clark St.
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Ms. Dunnings:

Please provide a written response for the record of the Audit Committee?s January 8, 2008
meeting regarding issues raised by the Independent Auditors?Report and CAFR, as follows:

1. On page 3 of the Management Discussion Analysis, the net assets of the
County decreased $368.3 million. What are the primary contributing factors to this
decrease?

2. On page 9 of the Management Discussion Analysis, the unrestricted net assets a
$333.2 de?cit. How does this ?gure compare to prior years, and what is being done to
reduce it?

3. On page 11 of the Management Discussion Analysis, the net assets of the
govemmental activities were a negative $826.6 million. How does this ?gure compare to
prior years, and what is being done to reduce it?

4. A new Government Accounting Standards Board Statement #45 requires governments to
put other pension bene?ts (OPEB) costs on our books during the current ?scal year.

What is out plan to address this?

Thank you for your attention to this inquiry.

Sincerely,
?7

Audit Committee

  



 

Severnmemtat Stewards been:

Summaries I Status

Summary of Statement No. 45

Accounting and Financial Reporting by Employers for Postemployment
Benefits Other Than Pensions
(Issued 6/04)

In addition to pensions, many state and local governmental employers provide other
postemployment benefits (OPEB) as part of the total compensation offered to attract and retain
the services of qualified employees. OPEB includes postemployment healthcare, as well as other
forms of postemployment benefits (for example, life insurance) when provided separately from a
pension plan. This Statement establishes standards for the measurement, recognition, and
display of OPEB expense/expenditures and related liabilities (assets), note disclosures, and, if
applicable, required supplementary information (RSI) in the financial reports of state and local
governmental employers.

The approach followed in this Statement generally is consistent with the approach adopted in
Statement No. 27, Accounting for Pensions by State and Local Governmental Employers, with
modifications to reflect differences between pension benefits and OPEB. Statement No. 43,
Financial Reporting for Postemployment Benefit Plans Other Than Pension Plans, addresses
financial statement and disclosure requirements for reporting by administrators or trustees of
OPEB plan assets or by employers or sponsors that include OPEB plan assets as trust or agency
funds in their financial reports.

How This Statement Improves Financial Reporting

Postemployment benefits (OPEB as well as pensions) are part of an exchange of salaries and
benefits for employee services rendered. Of the total benefits offered by employers to attract and
retain qualified employees, some benefits, including salaries and active-employee healthcare, are
taken while the employees are in active service, whereas other benefits, including
postemployment healthcare and other OPEB, are taken after the employees? services have
ended. Nevertheless, both types of benefits constitute compensation for employee services.

From an accrual accounting perspective, the cost of OPEB, like the cost of pension benefits,
generally should be associated with the periods in which the exchange occurs, rather than with
the periods (often many years later) when benefits are paid or provided. However, in current
practice, most OPEB plans are financed on a pay-as-you-go basis, and financial statements
generally do not report the financial effects of OPEB until the promised benefits are paid. As a
result, current financial reporting generally falls to:

. Recognize the cost of benefits in periods when the related services are received by the
employer

. Provide information about the actuarial accrued liabilities for promised benefits
associated with past services and whether and to what extent those benefits have been
funded

0 Provide information useful in assessing potential demands on the employer's future cash
flows.

This Statement improves the relevance and usefulness of financial reporting by requiring
systematic, accrual-basis measurement and recognition of OPEB cost (expense) over a period
that approximates employees' years of service and providing information about actuarial
accrued liabilities associated with OPEB and whether and to what extent progress is being made
in funding the plan.

Summary of Standards
Measurement (the Parameters)

Employers that participate in single-employer or agent multiple?employer de?ned bene?t OPEB
plans (sole and agent employers) are required to measure and disclose an amount for annual
OPEB cost on the accrual basis of accounting. Annual OPEB cost is equal to the employer?s
annual required contribution to the plan (ARC), with certain adjustments if the employer has a net
OPEB obligation for past under? or overcontributions.

The ARC is defined as the employer?s required contributions for the year, calculated in
accordance with certain parameters, and includes the normal cost for the year and a
component for amortization of the total unfunded actuarial accrued liabilities (or funding excess)
of the plan over a period not to exceed thirty years. The parameters include requirements for the
frequency and timing of actuarial valuations as well as for the actuarial methods and assumptions
that are acceptable for financial reporting. If the methods and assumptions used in determining a
plan?s funding requirements meet the parameters, the same methods and assumptions are
required for financial reporting by both a plan and its participating employer(s). However, if a
plan?s method of financing does not meet the parameters (for example, the plan is financed on a
pay-as-you-go basis), the parameters nevertheless apply for financial reporting purposes.

For financial reporting purposes, an actuarial valuation is required at least biennially for OPEB
plans with a total membership (including employees in active service, terminated employees who
have accumulated benefits but are not yet receiving them, and retired employees and
beneficiaries currently receiving benefits) of 200 or more, or at least triennially for plans with a
total membership of fewer than 200. The projection of benefits should include all benefits covered
by the current substantive plan (the plan as understood by the employer and plan members) at
the time of each valuation and should take into consideration the pattern of sharing of benefit
costs between the emplOyer and plan members to that point, as well as certain legal or
contractual caps on benefits to be provided. The parameters require that the selection of actuarial
assumptions, including the healthcare cost trend rate for postemployment healthcare plans, be
guided by applicable actuarial standards.

Alternative Measurement Method

A sole employer in a plan with fewer than one hundred total plan members (including employees
in active service, terminated employees who have accumulated benefits but are not yet receiving
them, and retirees and beneficiaries currently receiving benefits) has the option to apply a
simplified alternative measurement method instead of obtaining actuarial valuations. The option
also is available to an agent employer with fewer than one hundred plan members, in
circumstances in which the employer?s use of the alternative measurement method would not
conflict with a requirement that the agent multiple-employer plan obtain an actuarial valuation for
plan reporting purposes. Those circumstances are:

. The plan issues a financial report prepared in conformity with the requirements of
Statement 43 but is not required to obtain an actuarial valuation because the plan has
fewer than one hundred total plan members (all employers) and is eligible to use the
alternative measurement method, or the plan is not administered as a qualifying trust,
or equivalent arrangement, for which Statement 43 requires the presentation of actuarial
information.

The plan does not issue a financial report prepared in conformity with the requirements of
Statement 43.

This alternative method includes the same broad measurement steps as an actuarial valuation
(projecting future cash outlays for benefits, discounting projected benefits to present value, and
allocating the present value of benefits to periods using an actuarial cost method). However, it
permits simplification of certain assumptions to make the method potentially usable by
nonspecialists.

Net OPEB Obligation?Measurement

An employer?s net OPEB obligation is defined as the cumulative difference between annual
OPEB cost and the employer?s contributions to a plan, including the OPEB liability or asset at
transition, if any. (Because retroactive application of the measurement requirements of this
Statement is not required, for most employers the OPEB liability at the beginning of the transition
year will be zero.) An employer with a net OPEB obligation is required to measure annual OPEB
cost equal to the ARC, one year?s interest on the net OPEB obligation, and an
adjustment to the ARC to offset the effect of actuarial amortization of past under? or
overcontributions.

Financial Statement Recognition and Disclosure

Sole and agent employers should recognize OPEB expense in an amount equal to annual OPEB
cost in government-wide financial statements and in the financial statements of proprietary funds
and fiduciary funds from which OPEB contributions are made. OPEB expenditures should be
recognized on a modified accrual basis in governmental fund financial statements. Net OPEB
obligations, if any, including amounts associated with under- or overcontributions from
governmental funds, should be displayed as liabilities (or assets) in government-wide financial
statements. Similarly, net OPEB obligations associated with proprietary or fiduciary funds from
which contributions are made should be displayed as liabilities (or assets) in the financial
statements of those funds.

Employers are required to disclose descriptive information about each defined benefit OPEB plan
in which they participate, including the funding policy followed. in addition, sole and agent
employers are required to disclose information about contributions made in comparison to annual
OPEB cost, changes in the net OPEB obligation, the funded status of each plan as of the most
recent actuarial valuation date, and the nature of the actuarial valuation process and significant
methods and assumptions used. Sole and agent employers also are required to present as a
schedule of funding progress for the most recent valuation and the two preceding valuations,
accompanied by notes regarding factors that significantly affect the identification of trends in the
amounts reported.

Cost-Sharing Employers

Employers participating in cost-sharing multiple-employer plans that are administered as trusts, or
equivalent arrangements, in which employer contributions to the plan are irrevocable, plan
assets are dedicated to providing benefits to retirees and their beneficiaries in accordance with
the terms of the plan, and plan assets are legally protected from creditors of the employers or

plan administrator, should report as cost-sharing employers. Employers participating in multiple-
employer plans that do not meet those criteria instead are required to apply the requirements of
this Statement that are applicable to agent employers.

Cost-sharing employers are required to recognize OPEB expense/expenditures for their
contractually required contributions to the plan on the accrual or modified accrual basis, as
applicable. Required disclosures include identification of the way that the contractually required
contribution rate is determined (for example, by statute or contract or on an actuarially determined
basis). Employers participating in a cost?sharing plan are required to present as RSI schedules of
funding progress and employer contributions for the plan as a whole it a plan financial report,
prepared in accordance with Statement 43, is not issued and made publicly available and the
plan is not included in the financial report of a public employee retirement system or another
entity.

Other Guidance

Employers that participate in defined contribution OPEB plans are required to recognize OPEB
expense/expenditures for their required contributions to the plan and a liability for unpaid required
contributions on the accrual or modified accrual basis, as applicable.

This Statement also includes guidance for employers that finance OPEB as insured benefits (as
defined by this Statement) and for special funding situations.

Effective Dates and Transition

This Statement generally provides for prospective implementation?that is, that employers set the
beginning net OPEB obligation at zero as of the beginning of the initial year. Implementation is
required in three phases based on a government's total annual revenues in the first fiscal year
ending after June 15, 1999. The definitions and cutoff points for that purpose are the same as
those in Statement No. 34, Basic Financial Statements?and Management?s Discussion and
Analysis?for State and Local Governments. This Statement is effective for periods beginning
after December 15, 2006, for phase 1 governments (those with total annual revenues of $100
million or more); after December 15, 2007, for phase 2 governments (those with total annual
revenues of $10 million or more but less than $100 million); and after December 15, 2008, for
phase 3 governments (those with total annual revenues of less than $10 million). Earlier
implementation is encouraged.

