REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HEALTH HOSPITALS

The Honorable,
The Board of 

Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

May 13, 2008

ommissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Beavers, Claypool,
Collins, Daley, Gorman, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri,
Sims and Suffredin (15)

Commissioners Maldonado and Steele (2)

Elizabeth Reidy, State?s Attorney's Office

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Health Hospitals of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met
pursuant to notice on Tuesday, May 13, 2008 at the hour of 2:00 PM in the Board Room, Room
569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

293933

AN AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK
COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
Larry Suffredin, County Commissioner.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

BE IT ORDAINED, pursuant to Cook County's home rule authority under Article
VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners (?County Board?) that Chapter 38,
Health and Human Services, Article 1, In General, Sections 38-2 through 38-5 of
the Cook County Code are removed from Article I, are inserted into a newly
created Article IV, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, and are thereafter
amended and renumbered as follows:

ARTICLE IV. COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sec. 38-70. Short Title.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE2

Sec. 38-71. Declaration.
Sec. 38-72. Definitions.

 

Sec. 38-73. Establishment of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board of Directors (?System Board?).

Sec. 38-74. Mission of the 

    

 

process
Sec. 38-75. Nominatinq Committee.

Sec. 38-76. Members of the System Board.

Sec. 38.21?b7?. Qualifications of theAnginted Directors.
Sec. 38-78. Cha?grsonIOf?cers of System Board.

Sec. 38-79. Meetigqs of the System Board.

Sec. 38-80. General Powers of the System Board.

5 IR .ITI. IESD.

Sec. 38-81. Chief Executive Officer.

    

Sec. 38-82. Strateqic and Financial Plans.

Sec. 38-83. Preliminary Budqet and Annual Appropriation
Ordinance.

Section 38-84. Human Resources.

Section 38-85. Procurement and Contracts.

Sec. 38-5?. Disclosure of Interests Required.

Sec. 38-87. Annual Report of System Board.

Sec. 38-88. Ma?gerial and Financial Oversight.

Sec. 386% Indemnification.

Sec. 38-8990. Applicability of the Cook County Code.

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 3

Sec. 38-91. Transition.
Sec. 38 15g. Severability.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Collins, moved the approval of
Communication No. 293933 for the purpose of an amendment.

COMMUNICATION NUMBER 293933
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment Sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

BE IT ORDAINED, pursuant to Cook County's home rule authority under Article VII, Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
(?County Board") that Chapter 38, Health and Human Services, Article 1, In General, Sections
38-2 through 38?5 of the Cook County Code are removed from Article I, are inserted into a newly
created Article IV, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, and are thereafter amended and
renumbered as follows:

ARTICLE IV. COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Sec. 38-70. Short Title.

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the ?Ordinance Establishinq the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System."

Sec. 38-71. Declaration.

The County Board hereby establishes the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System or System") which shall be an aqency of and funded by Cook County. All
personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the formerly constituted Cook County Bureau
of Health Services are now established within the Pursuant to the provisions contained
herein, the and all personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the shall
be qoyerned by a Board of Directors (?System Board?) as provided herein. The System Board
shall be accountable to and shall be funded by the County Board and shall obtain County Board

approval as required herein. The County Board hereby finds and declares that the 
shall:

(1) Provide inteqrated health services with diqnity and respect, reqardless of a
[?ient's ability to pay;

Provide access to quality preventive, acute, and chronic health care for all the
People of Cook County, Illinois (the ?County");

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 4

(3) Provide quality emergency medical services to all the People of the County;

Provide health education for patients. and participate in the education of future
merations of health care professionals;

(5) Engage in research which enhances its ability to meet the heatthcare needs of
the People of the County; and.

Perform. through the Cook County Department of Public Health. essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Department of Pubiic
Health Act. 20 230511 et seq. and the Civil Administrative Code of 
20 2310/2310-1 et seq. and as further detailed in regulations promulgated
by the Department of Public Health under the Certified Local Health
Department Code. 7? Adm. Code 600.110 et seq: provided. however. that the
County Board shall continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook County.

This Ordinance recognizes the essential nature of the Mission of the as
set forth in Section 38-74 of this Article and the need for sufficient and sustainable public funding
of the in order to fulfill its mission of universal access to quality health care.

Sec. 38-72. Definitions.

For purposes of this Ordinance. the following words or terms shall have the meaning or
construction ascribed to them in this Section:

Chairperson means the chairperson of the System Board.

Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County. Illinois.

Cook County Health and Hospitals System also referred to as means the
public health system comprised of the facilities at. and the services provided by or through. the
Ambulatory and Community Health Network. Cermak Health Services of Cook County. Cook
County Department of Public Health. Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County. Provident Hospital of
Cook County. Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center. and John H. Stroqer. Jr. Hospital of Cook
County. (collectively. the Facilities?).

County means the County of Cook. a body colitis and corporate of Illinois.
County Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County. Illinois.
Director means a member of the System Board.

Fiscal Year means the fiscal year of the County.

Ordinance means the "Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System. as amended.

President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

System Board means the ten-member board of directors charged with governing the


HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 5

  

 
 
 

- . . . -


Sec. 38-73. Establishment of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of
Directors (?System Board?).

The System Board is hereby created and established. The System Board shall
consist of ten {10) members called Directors. The County Board delegates governance of the
to the System Board. The System Board shall, upon the appointment of its Directors as
mvided herein. assume responsibility for thegovernance of the 

The System Board shall exist for a minimum of three (3) years. The System
Board may be terminated by action taken by the Illinois General Assembly to create a special
district governing the facilities and services.

Sec. 38-74. Mission of the 

The System Board shall have the responsibility to carry out and fulfill the mission
of the by:

(1) Continuing to provide integrated health services with dignity and respect.
regardless of a patient's ability to pay;

(2) Continuing to provide access to quality primary, preventive, acute; and chronic
health care for all the People of the County;

(a Continuinq to provide hiqh quality emerqency medical services to all the People of
the County;

Continuing to provide health education for patients, and continuing to participate
in the education of future qenerations of health care_professionals;

(5) Continuing to engage in research which enhances the ability to meet the
healthcare needs of the People of the County;

Ensuring efficiency in service delivery and sound fiscal management of all
asoects of the including the collection of all revenues from governmental
and private third party payers and other sources;

L7) Ensuring that all operations of the especially contractual and personnel
matters; are conducted free from any political interference and in accordance with
the provisions of the Supplemental Relief Order and Consent Decree established
in the federal civil litigation filed in the Northern District of Illinois under Case No.
69 2145 and titled Shakman, et al. v. Democratic Or'qanization, et al. and all
applicable laws; and,

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 6

(8) Performing. through the Cook County Department of Public Health; essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Department of Public
Health Act. 20 2305i1 et seq, and the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois,
20 2310(2310-1 et seq. and as further detailed in regulations promulgated
by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certi?ed Local Health
Department Code, 7? Adm. Code 600.110 et seq; provided. however, that the
County Board shall continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook County,

The System Board shall be responsible to the People of the County for the proper
use of all funds appropriated to the by the County Board.

 

Sec. 38-75. Nominating Committee.

 

The Nominating Committee shall elect its chair from among its members and all
decisions shall be bv maiority vote of the membership. The Nominating Committee shall include
one (1) representative ween-designateel?by from each of the following organizations:whieh?se

      

   

  

    

agsee?te?pert-isip it 
guah?eatien - I - 4he?Nern+n 

(1L Civic Federation of Chicago;

(2) Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago;

Chicago Urban League;

(4) Healthcare Financial Management Association;

(Q) Suburban Primary Healthcare Council;

(6) Illinois Public Health Association;

(7) Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council;

(8) Health and Medicine Policy Research Group;

(9) Chicago Department of Public Health;

(10) Cook County Physicians Association;

(11) Chicago Federation of Labor;

(12) Chicago Medical Society;

(13) Association of Community Safety Net Hospitals; and

(14) Midwest Latino Health Research Center.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 7

Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0-22. "Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health
Services Notwithstanding Any Provision in Existing Ordinances.? which ordinance is amended
by this Ordinance, the Nominating Committee convened. selected the names of twenty (20}
individuals and transmitted these names to the President for nomination to the System Board.
Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0-22. ?Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health Services
Notwithstanding Any Provision in Existing Ordinances." which ordinance is amended by this
Ordinance. the President then selected nine names from among the names submitted by the
Nominating Committee for the office of Director. and forwarded the list of nine (9) names to the
County Board for its approval.







Commissioners:




list-ef?twentyLeaad-idates:

Sec. 38-76. Members of the System Board.

One of the ten (10) Directors shall be the Chairperson of the Health and Hospitals
Committee of the County Board who shall serve as an ex-of?cio member with no voting rights.
This Director shall serve as a liaison between the County Board and the System Board.

The remaining nine Directors of the System Board shall be appointed and
removed as follows:

(1) For the initial Directors, the County Board shall approve or reiect each of the
names submitted by the President within fourteen (14} days from the date the
President submitted the names. or at the next regular meeting of the County
Board held subsequent to the fourteen (14) day period. Where the County Board
reiects the President?s selection of any name for the office of Director. the
President shall within seven (7) days select a replacement name from the
remaining names on the initial list of twenty {20) names. There is no limit on the
number of names the County Board may reiect. The County Board shall
exercise good faith in approving the initial Directors as soon as reasonably
practicable. in the event. the twenty {20} names initially submitted to the
President by the Nominating Committee are exhausted before the County Board
approves nine names. the President shall direct the Nominating Committee to
reconvene and to select and submit an additional three names for each
Director still to be appointed.



HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT

 

 

 

MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 8
Of the nine (9) Directors first appointed:
1. Four (4) Directors shall serve a term of three (3) years as
desiqnated by the President in his recommendation to the County
Board; and,
2. Five (5) Directors shall serve a term of ?ve (5) years as desiqnated

 

by the President in his recommendation to the County Board.

After the expiration of the initial term of each appointed Director. all
subsequent terms shall be for five (5) years.

Each appointed Director. whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office
until a successor is appointed. Any appointed Director shall be elioible for
reappointment, but no appointed Director shall be elioible to serve more
than two consecutive five?year terms.

Upon the expiration of an appointed Director?s term. the successor
Director shall be appointed in the same manner as the process set forth
above for the nomination. selection and appointment of initial Directors:
provided. however. that the Nominating Committee shall recommend
three (3) names for each Director position to be filled at that time.

Any appointed Director may be removed for incompetence. malfeasance.
neolect of dutv. or any cause which renders the Director unfit for the
position. The President or one-third of the members of the Countv
Board shall provide written notice to that Director of the proposed removal
of that Director from office; which notice shall state the specific qrounds
which constitute cause for removal. The Director in receipt of such notice
mav request to appear before the County Board and present reasons in
support of his or her retention. Thereafter. the County Board shall vote
upon whether there are sufficient qrounds to remove that Director from
office. The President shall notify the subiect Director of the final action of

the County Board.

in the event of a vacancy in an appointed Director position on the System Board.
the President may recommend a replacement name to the County Board for its
approval from the remaininq names on the most recent list of names
recommended by the Nominatino Committee. In the atternative. the President
mav direct that the Nominating Committee reconvene to prepare a new list of
three (3) names for the vacancy within thirty (30) days of the Presidents request.
The successor Director shall then be appointed in the same manner set forth
above for the selection and appointment of initial Directors.

A vacancy shall occur upon the:

 

 

 

1. Resionation.

2. Death

3 Conviction of a felony. or

4. Removal from the office of an appointed Director as set forth in

 

Section of this Article.

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 9

b. Any appointed Director who is appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve until
the expiration of his predecessor's term.

EL The appointed Directors are not employees of the County and shall receive no
compensation for their service but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses while
serving on the Svstem Board.

Directors shall have a fiduciary duty to the and the County.

Sec. Qualifications of theApgointed Directors.


The appointed Directors shall include persons with the
requisite expertise and experience in areas pertinent to the governance and operation of a large
and complex healthcare system. 
fields?et-Such areas shall include. but not be limited to. finance. legal and regulatory affairs,
heaithcare management. employee relations. public administration. and clinical medicine. lire
Nominating Committee. the President and the County Board shall take this Section into account

in undertaking their respective responsibilities in the recommendation. selection and
appointment of Directors.

Sec. 38-78. ChairpersonfOf?ficers of System Board.

The Directors shall select the initial Chairperson of the System Board from among
the initial Directors. The Chairperson shall serve a one-year term and. thereafter. the System
Board shall annually elect a chairperson from among the Directors.

The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the System Board. and is entitled to

vote on all matters before the System Board. unless the Chairperson is the ex-
of?cio member.

(2) A Director may be elected to serve successive terms as Chairperson.

The Directors may establish such additional offices and appoint such additional
officers for the System Board as they may deem appropriate.

Sec. 38-79. Meetmf the System Board.

The President shall call the first meeting of the System Board. Thereafter, the
Directors shall prescribe the times and places for their meetings and the manner in which
regular and special meetings may be called.

Meetings shall be heid at the call of the Chairperson. however. no less than
twelve (12) meetings shall be held annually.

to) A maiority of the voting Directors shall constitute a quorum. Actions of the System
Board shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members of the System Board
present and voting at the meeting at which the action is taken.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE10

To the extent feasible. the System Board shall provide for and encouraoe
participation by the public in the development and review of financial and healthcare policy. The
System Board may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its
responsibilities.

The System Board shall comply in all respects with ?An Act in relation to
meetings." as now or hereafter amended. and found at 5 ILCS 120/1. et seq.

{Ii The System Board shall be an Agency to which the ?Local Records Act" as now
or hereafter amended, and found at 50 ILCS 205/1. et seq. applies.

 

Sec. 38-80. General Powers of the System Board.

Subiect to the Mission of the and consistent with this Ordinance. the System
Board shall have following powers and responsibilities:

(3) To appoint the Chief Executive Officer of the or interim CEO. if
necessary. as set forth in Sec. 38-81 hereinafter. to hire such employees and to
contract with such agents. and professional and business advisers as may from
time to time be necessary in the System Board's iudoment to accomplish the
Mission and the purpose and intent of this Ordinance; to fix the
compensation of such CEO. employees. agents. and advisers: and. to establish
the powers and duties of all such agents. employees. and other persons
contracting with the System Board;

To exercise oversight of the 

To develop measures to evaluate the CEO's performance and. to report to the
President and the County Board at six (6) month intervals regarding the CEO's
performance;

To authorize the CEO to enter into contracts, execute all instruments. and do all
things necessary or convenient in the exercise of the System Board?s powers and
responsibilities;

(it)

to)

{hi





(I)



in)

(0)

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 11

To determine the scope and distribution of clinical services: provided, however. if
the System Board determines that it is in the best interest of the to close
entirely one of the three hospitats. such closure wilt require County Board
approval;

To provide for the organization and management of the including. but
not limited to. the System Board's rights and powers to approve all personnel
policies, consistent with existing state laws. collective bargaining agreements. and
court orders;

To submit budgets for the operations and capital Jalanning and
development. which promote sound financial management and assure the
continued operation of the subject to approval by the County Board;

To accept any gifts. grants. property. or any other aid in any form from the federal
government, the state. any state agency. or any other source, or any combination
thereof. and to comply with the terms and conditions thereof;

To purchase, lease. trade, exchange, or otherwise acquire. maintain, hold.
improve. repair. sell. and dispose of personal property. whether tangible or
intanqible, and any interest therein;

In the name of the County. to purchase. lease. trade, exchange. or otherwise
acquire, real property or any interest therein. and to maintain. hold. improve.
repair. mortgage. lease, and otherwise transfer such real property. so long as
such transactions do not interfere with the Mission of the provided.
however, that transactions involving real property valued at $100000 or greater
shall require express approval from the County Board;

To acquire space. equipment. supplies. and services. including. but not limited to.
services of consultants for rendering professional and technical assistance and
advice on matters within the System Board's powers;

To make rules and regulations governing the use of property and facilities within
the subiect to agreements with or for the benefit of holders of the County
Board's obligations;

To adopt and from time to time amend or repeal bylaws and rules and regulations
consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance;

To encourage the formation of a not-for?profit corporation to raise funds to assist
in carrying out the Mission of the 

To engage in ioint ventures. or to participate in alliances, purchasing consortia. or
other cooperative arrangements, with any public or private entity, consistent with
state laW'

 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 12

(D) To have and exercise all riohts and powers necessarv. convenient. incidental to.
or implied from the specific powers granted in this Ordinance. which speci?c
powers shall not be considered as a limitation upon anv power necessarv or
appropriate to carry out the Mission and the purposes and intent of this
Ordinance'

 

to) To perform. throuoh the Cook Countv Department of Public Health. essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Department of Public
Health Act. 20 ILCS 2305M all seen. and the Civil Administrative Code of Illinois,
20 ILCS et seq. and as further detailed in requisitions promuloated
by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified Local Health
Department Code. 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110. et seq; provided. however. that the
County Board shall continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook Countv; and

tr) To be the ooverning body;' of the licensed hospitals or other licensed entities within
the 

.383. IR lees.


. 


ndigent?Geek
Ce 






















Wooster.





Costner;


l?and?eapi-taL?Feseevee

HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE13

 

Sec. 38-81. Chief Executive Officer.



The System Board shall appoint a Chief Executiye Officer of the 

or an interim CEO as necessary.

(DJ

The System Board shall conduct a nationwide search for a CEO which shail be

concluded no later than one hundred eighty i180) clays from the date of the County Board?s
approval of the appointment of the initial System Board.

EL


(2)

t3)



(cl)
Le}

The CEO shall have the responsibility for

Full operational and managerial authority of the consistent with existing
federal and state laws. court orders and the provisions of this Ordinance;

Preparing and submitting to the System Board the Budgets and Strategic and
Financial Plans required by this Ordinance;

Operating and managing the consistent with the Budgets and Financial
Plans approved by the County Board;

Overseeing expenditures of the 

Subject to Section of this Ordinance. hiring and discipline of
personnel in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance. all state laws. court
orders. and collectiye bargaining agreements;

Negotiating coltectiye bargaining agreements as set forth in Sec. and
Carrying out any responsibility which the System Board may deiegate; howeyer.
said delegation shall not relieye the System Board of its resgonsibilities as set
forth in this Ordinance.

The CEO shall report to the System Board.

The CEO shall proyide. through the System Board. quarterly reports to the County

Board concerning the status of operations and finances of the 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 14



 

 


aiming
agreementss






eadieaneesr;













Burea-aeperatieasn

Sec. 38?82. Strategic and Financial Plans.

As soon as practicable followinq the establishment of the System Board, the
President shall provide to the System Board copies of the audited financial statements and of
the books and records of account of the Bureau of Health Services for the precedlnq five (5)
Fiscal Years of the County.

(bl The System Board shall recommend and submit to the President and the County
Board Strategic and Financial Plans as required by this Section.

Each Strategic and Financial Plan for each Fiscal Year. or part thereof to which it
relates. shall contain:

(1)

(3)



HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 15

A description of revenues and expenditures, provision for debt service. cash
resources and uses. and capital improvements. each in such manner and detail
as the County's Budoet Director shall prescribe;

A description of the strategy by which the anticipated revenues and expenses for
the Fiscal Years covered by the Strateqic and Financial Plan will be brouqht into
balance'

 

Such other matters that the County Board. in its discretion. requires; provided.
however. that the System Board shall be provided with a description of such
matters in sufficient time for incorporation into the Strateqic and Financial Plan.

Strategic and Financial Plans shall not have force or effect without the approval of

the County Board and shall be recommended. approved and monitored in accordance with the

following:


(2)

i3)

(4)

i"

The System Board shall recommend and submit to the President and the County
Board. on or before one hundred eiohty i180) clays subsequent to the date of the
ajpointment of the initial Directors or as soon as practicable thereafter. an initial
Strategic and Financial Plan with respect to the remaininq portion of the Fiscal
Year endinq in 2008 and for Fiscal Years 2009 and 2010. The Board shall
approve. reiect or amend this initial Strateqic and Financial Plan within forty-five
(45) days of its receipt from the System Board.

For the 2011 Fiscal Year and every second year thereafter. the System Board
shall develop a Strateqic and Financial Plan coverinq a period of two Fiscal
Years. The System Board shall recommend and submit each Strateqic and
Financial Plan to the President and the County Board for the County Board's
approval not later than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of the Fiscal
Year prior to the first Fiscal Year to which the Strategic and Financial Plan
applies.

The System Board shall include in each Strategic and Financial Plan estimates of
revenues durino the period for which the Strategic and Financial Plan applies. In
the event the System Board fails. for any reason. to include estimates of
{games as required. the County Board may prepare such estimates. In such
event. the Strategic and Financial Plan submitted by the System Board shall be
based upon the revenue estimates prepared by the County Board.

The County Board shall approve each Strateqic and Financial Plan if. in its
?gment. the Strateqic and Financial Plan is complete. is reasonably capable of
beinq achieved. and meets the requirements set forth in this Section. After the
System Board submits a Strateqic and Financial Plan to the President and the
County Board. the County Board shall approve or reiect such Strateqic and

Financial Plan within forty~tive (45] days or such Strategic and Financial Plan is
deemed approved.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 16

(5) The System Board shatl report to the President and the County Board, at such
times and in such manner as the County Board may direct. concerninq the
System Board?s compliance with the Strateqic and Financial Plan. The President
and the County Board may reyiew the System Board's operations. obtain
budgetary data and financial statements, require the System Board to produce
reports. and have access to any other information in the possession of the
System Board that the President and the County Board deem relevant. The
County Board may issue recommendations or directives within its powers to the
System Board to assure compliance with the Strateqic and Financial Plan. The
System Board shallproduce such budgetary data. financial statements. reports
and other information and comply with such directives.

For each Strategic and Financial Plan applicable to 3 Fiscal Year subsequent to
the current Fiscal Year. the S_ystem Board shall regularly reexamine the revenue
and expenditure estimates on which it was based and revise them as necessary-
The System Board shall notify the President and the County Board of
any material change in the revenue or expenditure estimates in that Strateqic and
Financial Plan. The System Board may submit to the President and the County
Board. or the County Board may require the System Board to submit. modified
Strateqic and Financial Plans based upon reyised revenue or expenditure
estimates or for any other qood reason. The County Board shall approve or
reject each modified Strategic and Financial Plan pursuant to paraoraph [Div-i) of
this Section.

Sec. 38-83. Preliminary Budqet and Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

The System Board shall not make expenditures unless such expenditures are
consistent with the County?s Annual Appropriation Bill (?Annual Appropriation Ordinance?) as
provided in 55 ILCS 516-24001 et seq.

The System Board may. if necessa?v. recommend and submit to the President
and the County Board, for approval by the County Board. a request for intra-fund transfers within
the Public Health Fund to accommodate any proposed reyisions by the System Board to the line

items set forth for the Bureau of Health Services in the existinq Fiscal Year 2008 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance.

to) For Fiscal Year 2009 and each Fiscal Year thereafter. the System Board shall
recommend and submit a Preliminary Budget for the to the President and the County
Board. for approval by the County Board. not later than forty~fiye (45) days prior to the first date
for submission of budget requests set by the County's Budqet Director.

Each Preliminary Budqet shall be recommended and submitted. in accordance
with the followinq procedures:

(1) Each Preliminary Budget submitted by the System Board shall be based upon

revenue estimates contained in the approved Strateqic and Financial Plan
applicable to that budqet year.

(2)

(cl

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 17

Each Preliminary Budget shall contain such information and detail as may be
prescribed by the County's Budget Director. Any applicable fund deficit for the
Fiscal Year endinq in 2008 and for any Fiscal Year thereafter shall be included as
an expense item in the succeeding Fiscal Year's Budget.

The County Board shall approve each Preliminary Budget if. in its iudqment. the

Budqet is complete. is reasonably capable of beinq achieved. and will be consistent with the
Strategic and Financial Plan in effect for that Fiscal Year. The Board shall approve or reiect each
Preliminary Budget within forty-five (45) days of submission to the County Board or such
Preliminary Budqet is deemed approved. Such Preliminary Budget shall be included in the
President?s Executive Budget Recommendation.


U1

(3)

The Annual Appropriation shall be monitored as follows:

The County Board may establish and enforce such monitoring and control
measures as the County Board deems necessary to assure that the revenues,
commitments. obliqations. expenditures, and cash disbursements of the System
Board continue to conform on an onqoinq basis with the Annual Appropriation
Ordinance. If. in the discretion of the County Board. and notwithstanding the
approved Annual Appropriation Ordinance. the County Board imposes an
expenditure limitation on the System Board, the System Board shall not have the
authority. directly or by delegation. to enter into any commitment, contract. or
other obliqation that would result in the expenditure limitation being exceeded.
Any such commitment. contract or other obligation entered into by the System
Board in derogation of this Section shall be yoidable by the County Board. An
expenditure limitation established by the County Board shall remain in effect for
that Fiscal Year or unless revoked earlier by the County Board.

The System Board shall report to the President and the County Board at such
times and in such manner as the County Board may direct. concerning the
System Board's compliance with each Annual Appropriation Ordinance. The
President and the County Board may review the System Board?s operations,
obtain budqetary data and financial statements. require the System Board to
produce reports. and have access to any other information in the possession of
the System Board which the President and the County Board deem relevant. The
County Board may issue recommendations or directives within its powers to the
System Board to assure compliance with the Annual Approoriation Ordinance.
The System Board shall produce such financial data. financial statements. reports
and other information and comply with such directives.

After approval of each Annual Appropriation Ordinance. the System Board shall
notify the President and the County Board of any material chanqe in the
revenues or expenditures set forth in the Annual Approp_riation Ordinance. In
Fiscal Year 2009 and thereafter, the System Board has the authority to make
intra?fund transfers within the Public Heaith Fund. if necessary. to accommodate
any proposed revisions by the System Board to the line items set forth in the
Annual Appropriation Ordinance. Such transfers shall be reported by the CEO in
the quarterly reports required in Section of this Article.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 18

(4) The County Comptroller is hereby authorized to process invoices and make
payments against line items set forth in the Annual Appropriation Ordinance at
the direction of the System Board or. if authorized by the System Board. at the
direction of the CEO. The System Board shall provide the Comptroller with all
documentation necessary for the Comptroller to perform this accounts payable
function and to perform the budget control function. The Comptroller shall also
issue payroll checks for employees within the 

Section 38-84. Human Resources.

Notwithstanding the provisions of the Cook County Code. including. but not
limited to. provisions pertaining to Personnel Policies, the System Board shall have authority
over all human resource functions currently performed by the Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources with regard to all employees. including physicians and dentists. within the 
including. but not limited to. position classification. compensation, recruitment. selection. hiring,
discipline. termination, grievance. affirmative action. performance management. probationary
periods. training. promotion and maintenance of records. The System Board shall adopt written
rules. regulations and procedures with regard to these functions. Until such time as the System
Board adopts its own rules. regulations orprocedures with regard to these functions, the existing
Personnel Rules. regulations and procedures of the County shall apply. The System Board may
exercise the authority granted in this Section. in whole or in part. pursuant to its discretion and
consistent with existing collective bargaining agreements and obligations.

Employees within the are employees of the County. and as such shall be
free from any political interference in accordance with the Supplemental Relief Order and
Consent Decree established in the federal civil litigation filed in the Northern District of Illinois
under Case No. 69 2145 and titled Shakman. et at. v. Democratic Organization. et al.

to) The CEO shall participate with the County in neggtiating collective bargaining
agreements covering employees. All such collective bargaining agreements must be
approved by the System Board and the County Board.

The System Board or the CEO shall not hire or appoint any person in any position

in the unless it is consistent with the Annual Appropriation Ordinance in effect at the
time of hire or appointment.

Nothing herein shall diminish the rights of Cook County employees who are
covered by a collective bargaining agreement and who. pursuant to this Ordinance. are placed
under the iurisdiction of the System Board. nor diminish the historical representation rights of
said employees' exclusive bargaining representatives. nor shall anything herein change the
designation of ?Employer? pursuant to the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. The System Board
shall honor all existing collective bargaining agreements. between Cook County and exclusive
bargaining representatives. which cover employees under the jurisdiction of the System Board.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 19

Section 38-85. Procurement and Contracts.

The System Board shall have authority over all procurement and contracts for the
The System Board shall adopt written rules. regulations and procedures with regard to
these functions which must be consistent with the provisions set forth in the Cook County Code
on Procurement and Contracts; provided, however, that approval of the County Board or County
Purchasing Agent required under the Cook County Code on Procurement and Contracts are not
@uired for procurement and contracts within the The System Board shall act in place
of the County Board in any contract, bylaws or agreement with the County which requires the
approval or other action of the County Board unless expressly prohibited othenivise in this
Ordinance or unless the contract expressly provides that the System Board shall not have such
authority. Until such time as the System Board adopts its own rules, regulations or procedures
with regard to Procurement and Contracts, the existing provisions of the Cook County Code
gnaining to Procurement and Contracts shall apply. The System Board may exercise the
authority granted in this Section. in whole or in part. pursuant to its discretion.

Lb) No contract or other obligation shall be entered into by the System Board unless it
is consistent with the Annual Appropriation Ordinance in effect.

Any multi-year contracts entered into by the System Board must contain a
provision stating that the contract is subiect to County Board approval of appropriations for the
pgrpose of the subiect contract; and that in the event funds are not appropriated by the County
Board, the contract shall be cancelled without penalty to. or further payment being required by.
the System Board or the County. The System Board shall give the vendor notice of failure of
funding as soon as practicable after the System Board becomes aware of the failure of funding.
Muiti-year contracts shall also contain provisions that the System Board's or County?s obligation
to perform shall cease immediately upon receipt of notice to the vendor of lack of appropriated
funds; and that the System Board's or County's obligation under the contract shall also be
subiect to immediate termination or cancellation at any time when there are not sufficient
authorized funds lawfully available to the System Board to meet such obligation.

Sec. Disclosure of Interests Required.

(43E) Any Director, officer, employee? agent, and professional or business adviser of
the i399 System Board or the CEO who has direct or indirect interest in any contract or
transaction with the i399 shall disclose this interest in writing to the System Board

which shall in turn notify the President the County Board of such interestrand?the
W.

{Btu This interest shall be set forth in the minutes of the BOD System Board and the
Director employee?sweet: agent and o_r professional or business advisor or CEO having such
interest shall not participate on behalf of the BOD in any way with regard to the

authorizatien?ef?any such contract or transaction unless the System Board or County Board
waives the conflict.

 

The Cook County Board of Ethics shall have jurisdiction over the investigation and
enforcement of this Section and over the sanctions for violations as set forth in Sections 2?601
and 2?602 of the Cook County Code of Ethical Conduct.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 20

Employees of shall be bound by the Cook County Code of Ethical
Conduct set forth in the Cook County Code. Article VII. Ethics.

Sec. 38-87. Annual Report of System Board.

The System Board shall submit to the President and the County Board. within six
(6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year. a report which shall set forth a complete and
detailed operating and financial statement of the during such Fiscal Year.

(bi Included in the report shall be any recommendations for additional legislation or

other action which may be necessary to carry out the mission. purpose and intent of the System
Board.

Sec. 38-88. Managerial and Financial Oversight.

The County Board may conduct financial and managerial audits of the System
Board and the 

The County Board may examine the business records and audit the accounts of
the System Board or or require that the System Board examine such
business records and audit such accounts at such time and in such manner as
the County Board may prescribe. The System Board shall appoint a certified

public accountant annually, approved by the County Board. to audit the 
financial statements.

(2) The County Board may initiate and direct financial and managerial assessments
and similar analyses of the Operations of the System Board and as may
be necessary in the iudgment of the County Board. to assure sound and efficient
financial management ofthe System Board and the 

The County Board shall initiate and direct a management audit of the at
least once every 2 years. The audit shall review the personnel. organization.
contracts. leases. and physical properties of the to determine whether
the System Board is managing and utilizing its resources in an economical and
efficient manner. The audit shall determine the causes of any inefficiencies or
uneconomical practices. including inadequacies in internal and administratiye
mcedures. organizational structure. uses of resources. utilization of real
property. allocation of personnel. purchasing policies and equipment.

(4) The County Board may direct the System Board to reorganize the financial
accounts and management and budgetary systems of the System Board or
in a manner that the County Board deems appropriate to achieve greater
financial responsibility and to reduce financial inefficiency.

The System Board and the shall be subiect to audit in the manner now or
hereafter proyided by statute or ordinance for the audit of County funds and accounts. A copy of
the audit report shall be submitted to the President. the Chairperson of the Finance Committee
of the County Board. the Chairperson of the Health and Hospitals Committee. and the Director
of the County Office of the Auditor.

HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 21

Sec. 38-6Q. Indemni?cation.

 

The County shall defend and indemnify patient care personnel and public health
motitioners. including. but not limited to, physicians. dentists, pcdiatrists. fellows. residents.
medical students. nurses. certified nurse assistants. nurses aids. physicians assistants.
therapists and technicians (collectively "practitioners?i acting pursuant to employment. volunteer
activity or contract. if provided for therein, with the County with respect to ail negligence or
malpractice actions. claims or iudgments arising out of patient care or public health activities
performed on behalf of the The County shall also defend and indemnify the members
of the Nominating Committee and the System Board with respect to all claims or iudgments
arising out of their activities as members thereof which defense and indemnification shall be
subiect to the same provisions which apply to the defense and indemnification of practitioners as
set forth below.

The County shall not be obligated to indemnify a practitioner for:

(1) Punitive damages or liability arising out of cond_uct which is not connected with
the rendering of professional services or is based on the practitioner's willful or
wanton conduct.

(2) Professionai conduct for which a license is required but the practitioner does not
hold a license.

Conduct which is outside of the scope of the practitioner?s professional duties.

Conduct for which the practitioner does not have clinical privileges. unless
rendering emergency care while acting on behalf of the 

(5) Any settlement or iudgment in which the County did not participate.
(6) The defense of any criminal or disciplinary proceeding.

To be eligible for defense and indemnification. the practitioner shall be obligated
t;

(1L Notify. within five (5) days of receipt. the Cook County Department of Risk
Management and the Civil Actions Bureau of the Cook County State?s Attorney?s
Office of any malpractice claim made against the practitioner and deliver all
written demands. complaints and other legal papers. received by the practitioner
with respect to such claim to the Department of Risk Management.

(2) Cooperate with the State's Attorney?s Office in the investigation and defense of
any claim against the County or any practitioner. including. but not limited to.
preparing for and attending depositions. hearings and trials and otherwise
assisting in securing and giving evidence.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 22

(3) notify the Cook County Department of Risk Management and the Civil
Actions Bureau of the Cook County State?s Attorney's Office of any change in the
practitioner?s address or telephone number.

(dl All actions shall be defended the Cook County State?s Attorney. Decisions to
settle indemnified claims shall be made by the County or the State's Attorney?s Office. as
delegated by the County. and shall not require the consent of the indemnified practitioner. If a
practitioner declines representation by the State's Attorney?s Office. the County shalt have no
obligation to defend or indemnify the practitioner.

Sec. 38-90. Applicability of the Cook County Code.

Except as otherwise provided herein. provisions of the Cook County Code shall apply to
the System Board and the and their Directors. officers, employees and agents. To the
extent there is a con?ict between the provisions of this Ordinance and any other provision in the
Cook County Code. the provisions in this Ordinance shall control.

Sec. 38-91. Transition.

The County Board recognizes that there will be a necessary transition period
between the adoption of this Ordinance and the point at which the System Board is capable of
assuming all of its powers and responsibilities as set forth in this Ordinance. The Office of the
President shall cooperate with the System Board during this transition to enable the System
Board to assume fully its authority and responsibilities in as timely a manner as practicable.
Such cooperation shall include accommodating requests from the System Board to provide
adequate staffing at the through the transfer or reassignment of personnel to the
including. but not limited to. personnel to perform human resource and
procurement/contracting functions.

In order to avoid unnecessary duplication of services. the System Board, on
behatf of the may. at its discretion. continue to utilize various ancillary services
provided through the Office of the President. including. but not limited to. those services
p_rovided by the Office of Capital Planning and Policy. the Bureau of Information Technology. the
Department of Risk Management. the Department of Facilities Management. the Department of
Real Estate Management. the Office of the Comptroller. and the Office of the County Auditor.

to) Any contracts entered into by the County on behalf of the Bureau of Health prior
to the adoration of this Ordinance shall remain in effect; provided. however. that the System
Board shall act in place of the County Board in any contract. bylaws or agreement with the

County which requires the approval or other action of the County Board unless expressly
prohibited otherwise in this Ordinance.

Sec. 38 1g. Severability:

Any provision of this Ordinance declared to be unconstitutional or othenivise invalid shall
not impair the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 23

I
-
vu-

three?QS} ?of

 
 

 
 

Commissioner Suffredin explained the difference between his amendment and Vice Chairman
Goslin?s amendment which will follow. Commissioner Suffredin stated that in his amendment
Chairman Butler as the Chairman of the Health Hospitals made an ex-officio member of the
board without a vote. He further explained that in Vice Chairman Goslin?s amendment
Chairman Butler will be made an ex-officio member with a vote and the board will be increased
to ten (10) independently appointed individuals.

Commissioner Suffredin went through other parts of the ordinance and pointed out what other
information is included in the ordinance. He stated that the changes become significant
because they came. through negotiations with the President's Office and State's Attorney's
Office looking at Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) and
all of the State and Federal regulations that are necessary to make the independent board work.

Vice Chairman Goslin, second by Commissioner Gorman moved the amendment which
deals only with the sections of the ordinance that deals with the establishment of a
Health System Board of Directors and the membership of that organization.

Chairman Butler recognized Commissioner Claypool.

Commissioner Claypool stated that a number of Commissioners including himself drafted two
(2) different amendments on the original ordinance and on the amendment to the original
ordinance that is before the Committee, and now it has been simplified and not sure on how to
put in play the final amendment which the Commissioners would like to see discussed.
Chairman Butler asked Vice Chairman Goslin to read his amendments into the record.

Vice Chairman Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Gorman moved the following
amendments:

Sec. 38-72. Definition.

System Board means the tee=eleven~member board of directors charged with governing
the 

Sec. 38-73. Establishment of the Cook County Health and Hospitals Systems Board of

Directors (?System Board?).

The System Board is hereby created and established. The System Board shall
consist of tee=etm eleven {11) members called Directors. The County Board delegates
oovernance of the to the System Board. The System Board shall. upon the

appointment of its Directors as provided herein. assume responsibility for the governance of the


Sec. 38-75. Nominating Committee.

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT

MAY 13, 2008
PAGE24




?11 additiMnameJtoap amppg 
Preamp; 

inmate t??d?ty?o?im?apmmuamwa ZQ {pm lot mis?tdtnance.
Sec. 38-76 Members of the System Board.

One of the ?le 1 Directors shall be the Chair erson of the Health
and Hospitats Committee of the Countv Board who shall serve as an ex-officio member with as

votino riohts. This Director shall serve as a liaison between the Countv Board and the System
Board.

The remainino meet-B} Directors of the Svstem Board shall be appointed
and removed as follows:

For the initial Directors. the Countv Board shall approve or reiect each of the
names submitted bv the President within fourteen (14) davs from the date the President
submitted the names. or at the next regular meeting of the County Board held subsequent to the
fourteen (14) dav period. Where the Countv Board reiects the President?s selection of anv
name for the of?ce of Director. the President shall within seven days select a replacement
name from the remainino names on the initial list of twentv [20) names. There is no limit on the
number of names the Countv Board mav reiect. The Countv Board shall exercise qood faith in
approvino the initial Directors as soon as reasonablv practicable. In the event. the twentv (20)
names initially submitted to the President by the Nominalino Committee are exhausted before
the County Board approves tan (jg) names. the President shall direct the Nominating
Committee to reconvene and to select and submit an additional three (3) names for each
Director still to be appointed.

Of the 1gp (19) Directors first appointed:

1. Five (.51 Directors shall serve a term of three (3) years as
designated bv the President in his recommendation to the Countv Board;
and.

Sec. 38-78. Chairman/Officers of System Board

The Chairperson shall preside at meetino of the System Board. ?and Is entitled to
vote on all matters before the Svstem BoardHEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 25

On the motion made by Vice Chairman Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, to
approve the amendments to the Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No.

293933), Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as
follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AMENDMENTS TO THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
(COMMUNICATION NUMBER 293933) 

Yeas: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Daley,

Gorman, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (14)

Nay: None (0)
Present: Commissioner Beavers (1)
Absent: Commissioners Maldonado and Steele (2)

The motion to approve CARRIED.

Chairman Butler asked Commissioner Claypool to introduce his amendment to Communication
No. 293933.

Commissioner Claypool, seconded by Commissioners Quigley and Murphy moved
approval of the amendments to the Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication
No. 293933), as amended, introduced by Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Maldonado,
Moreno, Murphy, Quigley and Sims.

COMMUNICATION NUMBER 293933

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE FORREST CLAYPOOL,
EARLEAN COLLINS, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY

MIKE QUIGLEY, AND DEBORAH SIMS,
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 26

BE IT ORDAINED, pursuant to Cook County's home rule authority under Article VII, Section
6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners (?County Board") that Chapter 38, Health and Human Services, Article 1, In
General, Sections 38-2 through 38-5 of the Cook County Code are removed from Article I, are
inserted into a newly created Article lV, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, and are
thereafter amended and renumbered as follows:

ARTICLE IV. COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sec. 38-70. Short Title.

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the ?Ordinance Establishinq the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System."

Sec. 38-71. Declaration.

(A) The County Board hereby establishes the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System or System?) which shall be an aqency of and funded by Cook
County. All personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the formerly
constituted Cook County Bureau of Health Services are now established within
the Pursuant to the provisions contained herein. the and all
personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the shall be ooverned
by a Board of Directors (?System Board") as provided herein. The System Board
shall be accountable to and shall be funded by the County Board and shall obtain
County Board approval as required herein. The County Board hereby finds and
declares that the shall:

(1) Provide inteorated health services with dignity and respect, regardless of a
patient's ability to pay;

(2) Provide access to quality preventive, acute. and chronic health care for all
the People of Cook County, Illinois (the ?County?)?,

(3.) Provide quality emergency medical services to all the Peopie of the
County;

(4) Provide health education for patients, and participate in the education of
future qenerations of health care professionals;

(5) Enqaqe in research which enhances its ability to meet the healthcare
needs of the People of the County; and,

(6)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HEALTH 8. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13. 2008
PAGE27

Perform. through the Cook County Department of Public Health, essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Cook County
Board of Health Ordinance. Sections 38-26 through 38-40 of the Cook
County Code. other Cook County Ordinances imposing duties upon the
Cook County Department of Public Health. and the regulations of Cook
County Department of Public Health promulgated thereunder; the
Department of Public Health Act. 20 ILCS 2305/1 at 860.: the Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois. 20 ILCS 23 10/23 10-1 es seq.; and as
further detailed in regulations promulgated by the Illinois Department of
Public Health under the Certi?ed Local Health Degrtment Code. 77 Ill.
Adm. Code 600.110 et seq; provided. however. that the County Board shall
continue to serve as the Board of Cook County.

This Ordinance recognizes the essential nature of the Mission of the 
as set forth in Section 38-74 of this Article and the need for sufficient and
sustainable public funding of the in order to fulfill its mission of universal
access to quality health care.

Sec. 38-72. Definitions.

For purposes of this Ordinance. the following words or terms shall have the meaning or
construction ascribed to them in this Section:

?Chairperson" means the chairperson of the System Board.
?Cook County Code? means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County. Illinois.

?Cook County Health and Hospitals System.? also referred to as means the public
health system comprised of the facilities at. and the services provided by or through. the
Ambulatory and Community Health Network. Cermak Health Services of Cook County. Cook
County Department of Public Health. Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County. Provident Hospital of
Cook County. Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center. and John H. Stroqer. Jr. Hospital of Cook
County. (collectively. the Facilities").

?County" means the County of Cook. a body politic and corporate of Illinois.
"County Board" means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County. 

?Director" means a member of the System Board.

?Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the County.

?Ordinance" means the ?Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

as amended.

?President" means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

?System Board? means the tee eleven-member board of directors charged with governing the



HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 28

 
 

 
 

-


-
-

eensistent?with 
Bearel?ef?Cem 

 

Sec. 38-73. Establishment of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board of Directors (?System Board").

(A) The System Board is hereby created and established. The System Board shall
consist of eleven (11) members called Directors. The County Board
delegates governance of the to the System Board. The System Board
shall. upon the appointment of its Directors as provided herein, assume
responsibility for the governance of the 

(B)

 

 

 

 

Notwithstanding any provision of this Ordinance. the Cook County Board of Health
Ordinance. Sections 38-26 through 39?40 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.
and other provisions of the Cook County Code of Ordinances conferring authority
and imposing duties and responsibilities upon the Board of Health and the Cook
County Department of Public Health. shall remain in full force and effect.

Sec. 38-74. Mission of the 

LA) The System Board shall have the responsibility to carry out and fulfill the mission
of the by:

(1) Continuing to provide integrated health services with dignity and respect.
regardless of a patient's ability to pay;

(2) Continuing to provide access to quality primary. preventive. acute. and
chronic health care for all the People of the County;

(3) Continuing to provide high quality emergency medical services to all the
People of the Countv;

(4) Continuing to provide health education for patients. and continuing to
participate in the education of future generations of health care
professionals,

(5) Continuing to engage in research which enhances the ability to
meet the healthcare needs of the People of the County;

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 29

(6) Ensuring efficiency in service delivery and sound fiscal manaqemenl of
all aspects of the including the collection of all revenues from
governmental and private third party payers and other sources;

(7) Ensuring that all operations of the especially contractual and
personnel matters, are conducted free from any political interference and
in accordance with the provisions of the Smplemental Relief Order
and Consent Decree established in the federal civil litigation filed in the
Northern District of Illinois under Case No. 69 2145 and titled Shakmany
at at. v. Democratic Organization. at at. and all applicable laws; and.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pedorm?hrough the Cook County Department of Public ljeajg??ial
further detailed it; @ww?em?e?


ll i 

The System Board shall be responsible to the People of the County for the proper
use of all funds appropriated to the by the County Board.

 

 



HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 30

The Nominating Committee shall elect its chair from among its members and all
decisions shall be by maioritv vote of the membership. The Nominating Committee

shall include one (1) representative eemen?desigeated?bny?om each of the
following organIzatIons 

 

   

 

(1) Civic Federation of Chicago;

(2) Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of ChiCago;
(3) Chicago Urban League;

(4) Healthcare Financial Management Association;

(5) Suburban Primary Healthcare Council;

(6) Illinois Public Health Association;

(7) Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council;

(8) Health and Medicine Policy Research Group;

(9) Chicago Department of Public Health;

(10) Cook County Physicians Association;

(11) Chicago Federation of Labor;

(12) Chicago Medical Society;

(13) Association of Community Safety Net Hospitals; and
(14) Midwest Latino Health Research Center.

Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0-22. "Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health
Services Notwithstanding Any Provision in Existing Ordinances.? which
ordinance is amended by this Ordinance. the Nominating Committee convened.
selected the names of twenty (20) individuals and transmitted these names to the
President for nomination to the System Board. Pursuant to Ordinance 08- O- 22
?Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health Services Notwithstanding Any
Provision in Existing Ordinances which ordinance is amended by this
Ordinance, the President then selected nine (9) names from among the names
submitted by the Nominating Committee for the office of Director. and forwarded
the list of nine (9) names to the County Board for its approval

mamas-=1 Ameodator y?oajeMmbe-iltectowbem

Mime

Mammy Boa??e?bjiHosmiLComw?emn a

add??al Daemon

tiog_o111ml_ts_e

_namatoihe {Do?yum
_clf _or its appr oy_al o_gu__r?ua__ntto?_sg 3?5113 _{b1 ts Moat?gs

 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 30

The Nominating Committee shall elect its chair from among its members and all
decisions shall be by maiority vote of the membership. The Nominating Committee
shall include one (1) representative passes?designated?byf?rom each of the
following organizations: 

 

(1) Civic Federation of Chicago;

(2) Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago;
(3) Chicago Urban League;

(4) Healthcare Financial Management Association;

(5) Suburban Primary Healthcare Council;

(6) Illinois Public Health Association;

(7) Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council;

(8) Health and Medicine Policy Research Group;

(9) Chicago Department of Public Health;

(10) Cook County Physicians Association;

(11) Chicago Federation of Labor;

(12) Chicago Medical Society;

(13) Association of Community Safety Net Hospitals; and,
(14) Midwest Latino Health Research Center.

Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0-22; ?Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health
Services Notwithstanding Any Provision in Existing Ordinances," which
ordinance is amended by this Ordinance. the Nominating Committee convened.
selected the names of twenty (20) individuals and transmitted these names to the
President for nomination to the System Board. Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0-22.
?Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health Services Notwithstanding Any
Provision in Existing Ordinances." which ordinance is amended by this
Ordinance, the President then selected nine (9) names from among the names
submitted by the Nominating Committee for the office of Director; and forwarded
the list of nine 9) names to the County Board for its approvalQbairoe?omotthe? _County Board's Health and Hospital tug at;

Prggidgnj b1 the Ngmiggting _Cgmm_i_t1ee
for nomination to the_?ys1?m Egg rg; ago ghgii transmit _Ccuithy
19; it; 12 ?gg gg-Zg (L2) (1) g: ml; 

 

 

 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 31

TheBeard?sha 


Jay


Beard?of
Commissioness

 

Sec. 38-76. Members of the System Board.

(A) One of the tea=t=1=9=l eleven {11) Directors shall be the Chairperson of the Health
and Hospitals Committee of the County Board who shall serve as an ex-offr'cio
member with as voting riqhts. This Director shall serve as a liaison between the
County Board and the System Board.

(B) The remaining ?ga? of the System Board shall be appointed

and removed as follows:

(1) For the initial Directors. the County Board shall approve or reject each of the
names submitted by the President within fourteen (14) days from the date the
President submitted the names. or at the next reqular meetinq of the County
Board held subsequent to the fourteen (14) day period. Where the County
Board reiects the Presidents selection of any name for the office of Director? the
President shall within seven days select a replacement name from the
remaining names on the initial list of twenty (20) names. There is no limit on the
number of names the County Board may reiect. The County Board shall exercise
qood faith in approvinq the initial Directors as soon as reasonably practicable.
In the eventt the twenty (20) names initially submitted to the President by the
Nominating Committee are exhausted before the County Board approves raise
ten {10) names, the President shall direct the Nominating Committee to
reconvene and to select and submit an additional three names for each
Director still to be appointed.

 

 

 


Wedges?

E. I II El ef=fiue 

Beards

?Fl ll . l' E-II I . I 


ta)

{bl

(Cl

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 32

Each appointed Director. whether initial or subsequent. shall hold
office until a successor is appointed. Any appointed Director shall be
eliqible for reappointment. but no appointed Director shall be
eligible to serve more than two consecutive five-year terms.

Upon the expiration of an appointed Director's term. the successor
Director shall be appointed in the same manner as the process set
forth above for the nomination. selection and appointment of initial
Directors; provided. however. that the Nominatinq Committee shall
recommend three (3) names for each Director position to be filled at
that time.

Any appointed Director may be removed for incompetence.
maifeasance. neqlect of duty. or any cause which renders the
Director unfit for the position. The President or one~third (it's) of the
members of the County Board shall provide written notice to that
Director of the proposed removal of that Director from office; which
notice shall state the specific orounds which constitute cause for
removal. The Director in receipt of such notice may request to
appear before the County Board and present reasons in support of
his or her retention. Thereafter. the County Board shall vote upon
whether there are sufficient qrounds to remove that Director from
office. The President shall notify the subiect Director of the final
action of the County Board.

(2) In the event of a vacancy in an appointed Director position on the System
Board. the President may recommend a replacement name to the County
Board for its approval from the remaininq names on the most recent list of
names recommended by the Nominating Committee. In the alternative. the
President may direct that the Nominatinq Committee reconvene to prepare a
new list of three (3) names for the vacancy within thirty {30) days of the
President's request. The successor Director shall then be appointed in the same
manner set forth above for the selection and appointment of initial Directors.

(at)



A vacancy shall occur upon the:
Resignation.

(ii) Death.

Conviction of a felony. or

(iv) Removal from the office of an appointed Director as set forth in
Section of this Article.

Any appointed Director who is appointed to ?ll a vacancy shall serve
until the expiration of his predecessor's term.

The appointed Directors are not employees of the County and shall receive no
compensation for their service but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary
menses while servinq on the System Board.

Directors shall have a fiduciary duty to the and the County.

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 33

Sec. Qualifications of the/Appointed Directors.

tor?his
appointed Directors shall include persons with the
requisite expertise and experience in areas pertinent to the governance and operation of a
large and complex healthcare system. 
the??elds?ef?Such areas shall include but not be limited to finance legal and regulatory affairs,
healthcare management employee relations public administration and clinical medicine 
Nominating Committee, the President and the County Board shall take this Section into account
in undertaking their respective responsibilities in the recommendation. selection and
appointment of Directors.

Sec. 38-78. ChairpersonIOfficers of System Board.

(A) The Directors shall select the initial Chairperson of the System Board from among
the initial Directors. The Chairperson shall serve a one-year term and, thereafter,
the System Board shall annually elect a chairperson from among the Directors.

(1) The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the System Board} and is entitled to
vote on all matters before the System Board, eaiesaheShaiepessW
(2) A Director may be elected to serve successive terms as Chairperson.

(B) The Directors may establish such additional offices and appoint such additional
officers for the System Board as they may deem appropriate.

Sec. 38-79. Meetings of the System Board.

(A) The President shall call the first meeting of the System Board. Thereafter. the
Directors shall prescribe the times and places for their meetings and the
manner in which regular and special meetings may be called.

(B) Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however. no less than twelve
(12) meetings shall be held annually.

(C) A maiority of the voting Directors shall constitute a quorum. Actions of the System
Board shall require the affirmative vote of a maiority of the voting members of the
System Board present and voting at the meeting at which the action is taken.

(D) To the extent feasible. the System Board shall provide for and encourage
participation by the public in the development and review of financial and
healthcare policy. The System Board may hold public hearings as it deems
appropriate to the performance of any of its responsibilities.

(E) The System Board shall comply in all respects with ?An Act in relation to
meetings." as now or hereafter amended. and found at 5 ILCS 120/1. et seq.

(F) The System Board shall be an Agency to which the ?Local Records Act,? as
now or hereafter amended. and found at 50 ILCS 205/1. 91? seq._applies.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 34

 

 
 
 

 



 

Sec. 38-80. General Powers of the System Board.

Sub'Lect to the Mission of the and consistent with this Ordinance. the System Board
shall have fo'llowinq powers and responsibilities:

3. To appoint the Chief Executive Of?cer of the or interim CEO. if
necessary. as set forth in Sec. 38-81 hereinafter. to hire such employees and to
contract with such agents. and professional and business advisers as may from
time to time be necessary in the S?em Board's iudgment to accomplish the
Mission and the purpose and intent of this Ordinance; to fix the
compensation of such CEO. employees. agents. and advisers; and. to establish the
powers and duties of all such agents, employees. and other persons contracting
with the System Board;

b. To exercise oversight of the 

C. To develop measures to evaluate the CEO'Sperformance and. to report to the
President and the County Board at six (6) month intervals regardino the 
performance;

d. To authorize the CEO to enter into contracts. execute all instruments. and do all
things necessary or convenient in the exercise of the System Board?s powers and
responsibilities.

6. To determine the scope and distribution of clinical services; provided. however. if the
Bystem Board determines that it is in the best interest of the to close entirelyr
one of the three hospitals, such closure will require County Board approval;

f. To provide for the organization and management of the including. but not
limited to. the System Board?s riqhts and powers to approve all personnel policies.

consistent with existing state laws. collective bargaining agreements. and court
orders;

9. To submit budqets for the operations and capital planning and
development. which promote sound financial management and assure the
continued operation of the subiect to approval by the County Board;

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 35

To accept any gifts, grants. property, or any other aid in any form from the federal
government, the state. any state agency. or ahLother source, or any combination
thereof. and to comply with the terms and conditions thereof;

To purchase, lease. trade. exchange, or otherwise acquire, maintain. hold.
improve. repaiL sell. and dispose of personal property. whether tangible or
intangible. and any interest therein;

In the name of the County, to purchase, lease. trade. exchange, or otherwise
acquire. real property or any interest therein. and to maintain, hold, improve,
repair. mortgage, lease. and otherwise transfer such real property, so long as
such transactions do not interfere with the Mission of the provided.
however, that transactions involving real property valued at $100,000 or greater
shall require express approval from the County Board;

To acquire space. equipment. supplies. and services. including. but not limited to.
services of consuitants for rendering professional and technical assistance and
advice on matters within the System Board?s powers;

To make rules and regulations governing the use of property and facilities within the
subject to agreements with or for the benefit of holders of the County
Board's obligations;

To adopt and from time to time amend or repeal bylaws and rules and
regulations consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance;

To encourage the formation of a not-for-profit corporation to raise funds to assist in
carrying out the Mission of the 

To engage in ioint ventures, or to participate in alliances. purchasing consortia,

or other cooperative arrangements, with any public or private entity. consistent with
state laW'

 

To have and exercise all rights and powers necessary, convenient. incidental to, or
implied from the specificpowers granted in this Ordinance. which specific powers
shall not be considered as a limitation upon any power necessary or appropriate
to carry out the Mission and the purposes and intent of this Ordinance;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To_Perform. through Ting" of Public Health. essential

 

 

 

 

of cal. heal oritii Willow ogLr-Lol
-4 

9.- pi; qupty romances imposing duties of

WW Cook County Department 

 

 

promulgateojheLemoer Whip Health Act 20 ILCS 2306511 or
WWME ammo; e1 seggandja

HEW promujg?wimggepanmemo of 

 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 36

 

Hee?hyp?euhe . 9er



@Qil??igmt Jam Jae 
Wye

 

To be the governinq body of the licensed hospitals or other licensed entities within
the 

 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 37

Sec. 38-81. Chief Executive Officer.

The System Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the or an
interim CEO as necessary.

(A)

(B)

The System Board shall conduct a nationwide search for a CEO which shall be
concluded no later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of the County
Board?s approval of the appointment of the initial System Board.

The CEO shall have the responsibility for:

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)

(6)
(7)

Full operational and managerial authority of the consistent with
existing federal and state laws; court orders and the provisions of this Ordinance;

Preparing and submitting to the System Board the Budgets and Strategic and
Financial Plans required by this Ordinance;

Operating and managing the consistent with the Budgets and Financial
Plans approved by the County Board;

Overseeing expenditures of the 

Subiect to Section of this Ordinance. hiring and discipline of
personnel in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, all state laws,
court orders. and collective bargaining agreements;

Negotiating collective bargaining agreements as set forth in Sec. 3864(0); and

Carrying out any responsibility which the System Board may delegate; however,
said delegation shail not relieve the System Board of its responsibilities as
set forth in this Ordinance.

The CEO shall report to the System Board.

The CEO shall provide, through the System Board, quarterly reports to the County
Board concerning the status of operations and ?nances of the 

 

i 

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 38

 



operatisnsr

Sec. 38-82. Strategic and Financial Plans.

(A) As soon as _practicable following the establishment of the System Board. the
President shall provide to the System Board copies of the audited financial
statements and of the books and records of account of the Bureau of Health
Services for the precedinq five (5) Fiscal Years of the County.

(B) The System Board shall recommend and submit to the President and the County
Board Strategic and Financial Plans as required by this Section.

(C) Each Strateqic and Financial Plan for each Fiscal Year. or part thereof to which it
relates. shall contain:

(1) A description of revenues and expenditures, provision for debt service.
cash resources and uses. and capital improvements. each in such manner
and detail as the County?s Budget Director shall prescribe;

(2) A description of the strateqy by which the anticipated revenues and expenses
for the Fiscal Years covered by the Strateqic and Financial Plan will be
brouqht into balance;

(3) Such other matters that the County Board. in its discretion. requires;
provided. however. that the System Board shall be provided with a
description of such matters in sufficient lime for incorporation into the Strateqic
and Financial Plan.

(D) Strateqic and Financial Plans shall not have force or effect without the approval of

the County Board and shall be recommended. approved and monitored in
accordance with the followinq:

(1) The System Board shall recommend and submit to the President and the
County Board. on or before one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to
the date of the appointment of the initial Directors or as soon as
practicable thereafter. an initial Strateqic and Financial Plan with respect to
the remaininq portion of the Fiscal Year endinq in 2008 and for Fiscal
Years 2009 seat 2010 and_29_?l_1. The Board shall approve. reiect or amend
this initial Strategic and Financial Plan within forty?five [45} days of its receipt
from the System Board.



(4)

(5)

(6)

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 39

 

. - - ?lea?et yTneSystem
Board shall develop an initial Strateqic and Financial Plan covering a period of

Fiscal Years.

 


Haeal??ea?whimgimamk?lmep?es.

The System Board shall include in each Strategic and Financial Plan
estimates of revenues durinq the period for which the Strateqic and
Financial Plan applies. In the event the System Board fails. for any
reason. to include estimates of revenues as required. the County Board
may prepare such estimates. in such event. the Strategic and Financial
Plan submitted by the System Board shall be based upon the revenue
estimates prepared by the County Board.

The County Board shall approve each Strateqic and Financial Plan if. in its
iudqment. the Strategic and Financial Plan is complete. is reasonably
capable of beinq achieved. and meets the requirements set forth in this
Section. After the System Board submits a Strategic and Financial Plan to
the President and the County Board. the County Board shall approve or
reiect such Strategic and Financial Plan within forty-five (45) days or such
Strateqic and Financial Plan is deemed approved.

The System Board shall report to the President and the County Board._at
such times and in such manner as the County Board may direct.
concerning the System Board?s compliance with the Strategic and Financial
Plan. The President and the County Board may review the System Board?s
operations, obtain budqetary data and financial statements. require the
System Board to produce reports. and have access to any other
information in the possession of the System Board that the President and
the County Board deem relevant. The County Board may issue
recommendations or directives within its powers to the Sgstem Board to
assure compliance with the Strateqic and Financial Plan. The System
Board shall produce such budgetary data. financial statements. reports
and other information and comply with such directives.

For each Strateqic and Financial Plan applicable to a Fiscal Year
subsequent to the current Fiscal Year. the System Board shall reqularly
reexamine the revenue and expenditure estimates on which it was based and
revise them as necessam The System Board shall notify the
President and the County Board of any material change in the revenue or
expenditure estimates in that Strateqic and Financial Plan. The System
Board may submit to the President and the County Board. or the County
Board may require the System Board to submit. modified Strategic and
Financial Plans based upon revised revenue or expenditure estimates or for
any other good reason. The County Board shall approve or reiect each
modified Strateqic and Financial Plan pursuant to paraqraph (01(4) of this

Section.

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 40

Sec. 38-83. Preliminary Budget and Annual Appromiation Ordinance.

(A)

(B)

(C)

(D)

(F)

The System Board shall not make expenditures unless such expenditures are
consistent with the County?s Annual Appropriation Bill (?Annual Appropriation
Ordinance") as provided in 55 ILCS SIS-24001 at sea.

The System Board may. if necessary. recommend and submit to the President
and the County Board. for approval by the County Board. a request for intra-fund
transfers within the Public Health Fund to accommodate any proposed revisions by
the System Board to the line items set forth for the Bureau of Health Services in the
existinq Fiscal Year 2008 Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

For Fiscal Year 2009 and each Fiscal Year thereafter. the System Board shall
recommend and submit a Preliminary Budget for the to the President and
the County Board. for approval by the County Board. not later than forty-five [45]
days prior to the first date for submission of budqet requests set by the County's
Budget Director.

Each Preliminary Budoet shall be recommended and submitted. in accordance with
the following procedures:

(1) Each Preliminary Budget submitted by the System Board shall be based upon
revenue estimates contained in the approved Strategic and Financial Plan
applicable to that budqet year.

(2) Each Preliminary Budget shall contain such information and detail as may be
prescribed by the County?s Budget Director. Any applicable fund deficit for
the Fiscal Year ending in 2008 and for any Fiscal Year thereafter shall be
included as an expense item in the succeeding Fiscal Year's Budget.

The County Board shall approve each Preliminary Budget if. in its iudqment.
the Budget is complete. is reasonably capable of beinq achieved. and will be
consistent with the Strateqic and Financial Plan in effect for that Fiscal Year. The
Board shall approve or reiect each Preliminary Budget within forty-five (45) days
of submission to the County Board or such Preliminary Budoet is deemed approved.

Such Preliminary Budget shall be included in the President's Executive Budoet
Recommendation.

The Annual Appropriation shall be monitored as follows:

(1) The County Board may establish and enforce such monitorinq and control
measures as the County Board deems necessary to assure that the revenues.
commitments. obligations. expenditures. and cash disbursements of the
System Board continue to conform on an onqoinq basis with the Annual
Appropriation Ordinance. If. in the discretion of the County Board. and
notwithstandinq the approved Annual Appropriation Ordinance. the County
Board imposes an expenditure limitation on the System Board. the System
Board shall not have the authority. directly or by delegation. to enter into any
commitment. contract. or other obligation that would result in the expenditure
limitation beinq exceeded. Any such commitment. contract or other obligation
entered into by the System Board in derogation of this Section shall be voidable
by the County Board. An expenditure limitation established by the County Board

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 41

shall remain in effect for that Fiscal Year or unless revoked earlier by the
County Board.

(2) The System Board shall report to the President and the County Board at such
times and in such manner as the County Board may direct. concerning the
System Board's compliance with each Annual Appropriation Ordinance. The
President and the County Board may review the System Board's operations.
obtain budgetary data and financial statements. require the System Board to
produce reports. and have access to any other information in the possession of
the System Board which the President and the County Board deem relevant. The
County Board may issue recommendations or directives within its powers to
the System Board to assure compliance with the Annual Appropriation
Ordinance. The System Board shall produce such financial data. financial
statements. reports and other information and comply with such directives.

(3) After approyal of each Annual Appropriation Ordinance. the System Board
shall notify the President and the County Board of any material
change in the revenues or expenditures set forth in the Annual Appropriation
Ordinance. In Fiscal Year 2009 and thereafter. the System Board has the
authority to make intra?fund transfers within the Public Health Fund. if
necessary. to accommodate any proposed reyisions by the System Board to the
line items set forth in the Annual Appropriation Ordinance. Such transfers shall
be reported by the CEO in the quarterly reports required in Section of
this Article.

(4) The County Comptroller is hereby authorized to process inyoices and make
payments against line items set forth in the Annual ApprOpriation Ordinance at the
direction of the System Board or. if authorized by the System Board. at the
direction of the CEO. The System Board shall provide the Comptroller with all
documentation necessary for the Comptroller to perform this accounts payable
function and to perform the budget control function. The Comptroller shall also
issue payroll checks for employees within the 

Section 38-84. Human Resources.

(A) Notwithstanding the proyisions of the Cook County Code. including. but not
limited to, provisions pertaining to Personnel Policies. the System Board shall
haye authority over ail human resource functions currently performed by the
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources with regard to all employees.
including physicians and dentists. within the including. but not limited
to. position classification. compensation. recruitment. selection. hiring. discipline.
termination. grieyance. affirmative action. performance management.
probationary periods. training. promotion and maintenance of records. The
System Board shall adopt written rules. regulations and procedures with
regard to these functions. Untit such time as the System Board adopts its own
rules. regulations or procedures with regard to these functions. the existing
Personnel Rules. regulations and procedures of the County shall apply. The
S?tem Board may exercise the authority granted in this Section. in whole or in
part. pursuant to its discretion and consistent with existing collective bargaining
agreements and obligations.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 42

(B) Employees within the are employees of the County. and as such shall
be free from any political interference in accordance with the Supplemental
Relief Order and Consent Decree established in the federal civil litigation filed in
the Northern District of Illinois under Case No. 69 2145 and titled ShakmanJ et
al. v. Democratic Organization. et al.

(C) The CEO shall participate with the County in negotiating collective bargaining
agreements covering employees. All such collective bargaining
aggeements must be approved by the System Board and the County Board.

(D) The System Board or the CEO shall not hire or appoint any person in any
:?Sition in the unless it is consistent with the Annual Appropriation
Ordinance in effect at the time of hire or appointment.

(E) Nothing herein shall diminish the rights of Cook County employees who are
covered by a collective bargaining agreement and who. pursuant to this
Ordinance. are placed under the iurisdiction of the System Board. nor diminish the
historical representation rights of said employees' exclusive bargaining
representatives. nor shall anything herein change the designation of ?Employer?
pursuant to the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act. The System Board shall honor
all existing collective bargaining agreements. between Cook County and exclusive
bargaining representatives! which cover employees under the iurisdiction of the
System Board.

Section 38-85. Procurement and Contracts.

(A) The System Board shall have authority over all procurement and contracts for
the The System Board shall adopt written rules, regulations and
procedures with regard to these functions which must be consistent with the
provisions set forth in the Cook County Code on Procurement and Contracts;
provided. however; that approval of the County Board or County Purchasing
Agent required under the Cook County Code on Procurement and Contracts
are not required for procurement and contracts within the The
System Board shall act in place of the County Board in any contract. bylaws or
agreement with the County which requires the approval or other action of the
County Board unless expressly prohibited otherwise in this Ordinance or
unless the contract expressly provides that the System Board shall not have
such authority. Until such time as the System Board adopts its own rules,
regulations or procedures with regard to Procurement and Contracts, the
existing provisions of the Cook County Code pertaining to Procurement and
Contracts shall apply. The System Board may exercise the authority granted in
this Section! in whole or in party pursuant to its discretion.

(B) No contract or other obligation shall be entered into by the System Board
unless it is consistent with the Annual Appropriation Ordinance in effect.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 43

(C) Any multi-year contracts entered into by the System Board must contain a
provision stating that the contract is subiect to Countv Board approval of
appropriations for the purpose of the subiect contract; and that in the event
funds are not appropriated by the County Board. the contract shall be cancelled
without penaltv toL or further payment being required by. the System Board or
the County. The System Board shall dive the vendor notice of failure of funding
as soon as practicable after the System Board becomes aware of the failure of
funding. Multi-vear contracts shall also contain provisions that the Svstem
Board's or County?s obligation to perform shall cease immediately upon receipt
of notice to the vendor of lack of appropriated funds: and that the System
Board?s or County?s obliqation under the contract shall also be subiect to
immediate termination or cancellation at any time when there are not sufficient
authorized funds lawfully available to the System Board to meet such obliqation.

Sec. 38-5?. -- Disclosure of Interests Required.

@115) Any Director, officer, employee-agent. andg_r_ professional or business adviser of the
Board or the CEO'who has direct or indirect interest in any contract or
transaction with the shall disclose this interest in writing to the System
Board which shall in turn notify the President the County Board of such interestrand
WW. 

erg This interest shall be set forth in the minutes of the Board and the
Director, agent, andor __professional or business advisor o_r CEO
having such interest shall not participate on behalf of the in any way with

regard to such contract or transaction unless the System Board or
County Board waives the conflict.

The Cook Countv Board of Ethics shall havejurisdiction over the investigation and
enforcement of this Section and over the sanctions for violations as set forth in
Sections 2-601 and 2-602 of the Cook County Code of Ethical Conduct.

(Di Emplovees of shall be bound bv the Cook Countv Code of Ethicai Conduct set
forth in the Cook County Code. Article VII, Ethics.

Sec. 38-87. Annual Report of System Board.

(A) The Svstem Board shall submit to the President and the Countv Board; within
six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year. a report which shall set forth

a complete and detailed operatinq and financial statement of the durinq
such Fiscal Year.

(B) included in the report shall be any recommendations for additional leCIislation

or other action which may be necessary to carry out the mission. purpose and
intent of the System Board.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE44

Sec. 38-88. Managerial and Financial Oversig?

(A) The County Board may conduct financial and managerial audits of the System
Board and the 

(1) The County Board may examine the business records and audit the accounts
of the System Board or or require that the System Board
examine such business records and audit such accounts at such time and
in such manner as the County Board may prescribe. The System Board
shall appoint a certified public accountant annually. approved by the
County Board. to audit the financial statements.

(2) The County Board may initiate and direct financial and manaqerial
assessments and similar analyses of the operations of the System
Board and as may be necessary in the iudoment of the County

BoardL to assure sound and efficient financial management of the System
Board and the 

(3) The County Board shall initiate and direct a manaqement audit of the
at least once every year. The audit shall review the
personnel, organizationl contracts, leases, and physical properties of the
to determine whether the System Board is manaqinq and utilizinq
its resources in an economical and efficient manner. The audit shall
determine the causes of any inefficiencies or uneconomical practices
includinq inadequacies in internal and administrative procedures.
orqanlzational structure. uses of resources. utilization of real property.
allocation of personnel, purchasinq policies and equipment.

(4) The County Board may direct the System Board to reorganize the
financial accounts and management and budqetary systems of the
System Board or in a manner that the County Board deems
appropriate to achieve qreater financial responsibility and to reduce financial
inefficiency.

(B) The System Board and the shall be subject to audit in the manner now
or hereafter provided by statute or ordinance for the audit of County funds and
accounts. A copy of the audit report shall be submitted to the President, the
Chairperson of the Finance Committee of the County Board. the Chairperson of

the Health and Hospitals Committee, and the Director of the County Office of
the Auditor.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 45

Sec. 386% -- Indemnification.




 
         

  

(A) The County shall defend and indemnify patient care personnel and public health
practitioners, including. but not limited to. physicians. dentists. podiatrists.
fellows. residents. medical students. nurses. certified nurse assistants, nurses
aids. physicians assistants. therapists and technicians {collectively
?practitioners?) acting pursuant to employment. volunteer activity or contract. if
provided for therein. with the County with respect to all negligence or malpractice
actions. claims or iudgments arising out of patient care or public health activities
performed on behalf of the The County shall also defend and indemnify
the members of the Nominating Committee and the System Board with respect to
all claims or iudgments arising out of their activities as members thereof which
defense and indemnification shall be subiect to the same provisions which apply
to the defense and indemnification of practitioners as set forth below.

(8) The County shall not be obligated to indemnify a practitioner for:

(1) Punitive damages or liability arising out of conduct which is not connected
with the rendering of professional services or is based on the practitioner's
willful or wanton conduct.

(2) Professional conduct for which a license is required but the practitioner does
not hold a license.

(3) Conduct which is outside of the scope of the practitioner's professional
CLUE

(4) Conduct for which the practitioner does not have clinical privileges. uniess
rendering emergency care while acting on behalf of the 

(5) Any settlement or iudgment in which the County did not participate.
(6) The defense of any criminal or disciplinary proceeding.
(C) To be eligible for defense and indemnification, the practitioner shall be obligated to:

(1) Notify. within five days of receipt. the Cook County Department of Risk
Management and the Civil Actions Bureau of the Cook County State's
Attorney's Office of any malpractice claim made against the practitioner and
deliver all written demands. complaints and other legal papers. received by
the practitioner with respect to such claim to the Department of Risk
Management.

(2) Cooperate with the State's Attorney?s Office in the investigation and defense
of any claim against the County or any practitioner. including. but not limited
to. preparing for and attending depositions. hearings and trials and otherwise
assisting in securing and giving evidence.

(3) notify the Cook County Department of Risk Management and the
Civil Actions Bureau of the Cook County State?s Attorney's Office of any
change in the practitioner?s address or telephone number.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 46

(D) All actions shall be defended the Cook County State?s Attorney. Decisions to settle
indemnified claims shall be made by the County or the State's Attorney's Office. as
delegated by the County. and shall not require the consent of the indemnified
practitioner. If a practitioner declines representation by the State?s Attorney's Office. the
County shall have no obligation to defend or indemnify the practitioner.

Sec. 38-90. Applicability of the Cook County Code.

Except as otherwise provided herein. provisions of the Cook County Code shall apply to the
System Board and the and their Directors. of?cers. employees and agents. To the
extent there is a conflict between the provisions of this Ordinance and any other provision in the
Cook County Code. the provisions in this Ordinance shall control.

Sec. 38-91. Transition.

(A) The County Board recognizes that there will be a necessary transition period
between the adoption of this Ordinance and the point at which the System Board is
capable of assuming all of its powers and responsibilities as set forth in this
Ordinance. The Office of the President shall cooperate with the System Board
during this transition to enable the System Board to assume fully its authority and
responsibilities in as timely a manner as practicable. Such cooperation shali include
accommodating requests from the System Board to provide adequate staffing at the
through the transfer or reassignment of personnel to the includinq.
but not limited to. personnel to perform human resource and
procurement/contracting functions.

(B) In order to avoid unnecessary duplication of services. the System Board. on behalf
of the may. at its discretion. continue to utilize various ancillary services
provided through the Office of the President. including. but not limited to. those
services provided by the Office of Capital Planning and Policy. the Bureau of
Information Technology. the Department of Risk Management. the Department of
Management. the Department of Real Estate Management. the Office of
the Comptroller. and the Office of the County Auditor.

(C) Any contracts entered into by the County on behalf of the Bureau of Health prior to
the adoption of this Ordinance shall remain in effect; provided. however. that the
System Board shall act in place of the County Board in any contract. bylaws or
agreement with the County which requires the approval or other action of the
County Board unless expressly prohibited otherwise in this Ordinance.

Sec. 38 Severability.

Any provision of this Ordinance declared to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid shall not
impair the remaining provisions of this Ordinance.

HEALTH 3. HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2003
PAGE laeGs-ek 

 

 

Mimi 
was 
NEW

 

 

Chairman Butler asked Commissioner Claypool to read his amendment into the record.

Commissioner Claypool stated that he would walk through the individual changes within this
amendment because it is Commissioner Suffredin?s Ordinance with changes reflected by either
double lines, strikethroughs or double underline language restoring language that was in the
previously ordinance adOpted by the Cook County Board coterminous with the budget.

Commissioner Claypool began with his first change on page two (2), Section which
eliminates language referring to the Illinois General Assembly creating a special district to
govern the Cook County Facilities.

Commissioner Claypool continued with the next change on page five (5), section B):
shown by double strikethroughs, the language was changed from the original ordinance to
create five (5) year terms because of the permanence of the body as opposed to the original
terms that are coterminous with the three (3) year of the experiment.

Commissioner Claypool continued with the next change at the bottom of page 10 concluding at
the top of page 11, Section which reflects the fact that financial plans should be for
three (3) years not two (2) years, to make it consistent with the fact that it is a three (3) year
Board not a permanent Board.

Commissioner Claypool continued with the next change on page 15, Section striking
out the 2 years and inserting year so that it's consistent with the fact that it?s a short term
institution.

Commissioner Claypool continued with the final change on page 17, Section 38-93: the last
paragraph which is being restored which was in the previous paragraph that was eliminated
which is the sunset and simply restore the language that was approved and put it back to what
the Board originally approved which is a three (3) year sunset.

Commissioner Claypool further stated that if the organization is successful, the commissioners
will rally to re-approve it. In conclusion he stated because of this being an experiment and there
has been problems with Independence Governance in the past, because there is no way of
knowing if it will succeed, he stated that it is prudent for the Board to retain control, not invite the
Illinois General Assembly and also to have a sunset that if it fails it will die of dignified death.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 48

On the motion made by Commissioner Claypool, seconded by Commissioners Quigley
and Murphy, to approve the Amendments to the Proposed Ordinance Amendment
(Communication No. 293933), as amended, introduced by Commissioners Claypool,
Collins, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Quigley and Sims, Commissioner Peraica called for
a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AMENDMENT TO THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT (COMMUNICATION NO.
293933), AS AMENDED, INTRODUCED BY COMMISSIONERS CLAYPOOL,
COLLINS, MALDONADO, MORENO, MURPHY, QUIGLEY AND SIMS

Yeas: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Daley,
Gorman, Moreno, Murphy, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (13)

Nay: Commissioners Beavers and Peraica (2)

Present: None (0)

Absent: Commissioners Maldonado and Steele (2)

The motion to approve as amended CARRIED.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded Commissioner Murphy moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 293933), as amended.
Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
(COMMUNICATION NO. 293933), AS AMENDED

Yeas: Chairman Butler, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Claypool, Collins, Daley,
Gorman, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and
Suffredin (14)

Nay: None (0)
Present: Commissioner Beavers (1)
Absent: Commissioners Maldonado and Steele (2)

The motion to approve as amended CARRIED.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 49

COMMUNICATION NUMBER 293933

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT, AS AMENDED
Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,

MIKE QUIGLEY, AND DEBORAH SIMS, WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P.
DALEY, ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, ANTHONY J. PERAICA,
TIMOTHY O. PETER N. SILVESTRI, AND LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS

ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

BE IT ORDAINED, pursuant to Cook County's home rule authority under Article VII, Section 6(a)
of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
(?County Board?) that Chapter 38, Health and Human Services, Article 1, In General, Sections
38-2 through 38-5 of the Cook County Code are removed from Article I, are inserted into a newly
created Article IV, Cook County Health and Hospitals System, and are thereafter amended and
renumbered as follows:

ARTICLE IV. COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sec. 38-70. Short Title.

This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the ?Ordinance Establishing the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System."

Sec. 38-71. Declaration.

The County Board hereby establishes the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System or System") which shall be an agency of and funded by Cook County. All
personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the formerly constituted Cook County Bureau
of Health Services are now established within the Pursuant to the provisions contained
herein, the and all personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies within the shall
be governed by a Board of Directors (?System Board?) as provided herein. The System Board
shall be accountable to and shall be funded by the County Board and shall obtain County Board
approval as required herein. The County Board hereby finds and declares that the 
shall:

(1) Provide integrated health services with dignity and respect, regardless of a
patient's ability to pay;

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE50

(2) Provide access tO quality preventive, acute, and chronic health care for all the
People of Cook County, Illinois (the ?County");

(3) Provide quality emergency medical services to all the People of the County;

(4) Provide health education for patients, and participate in the education of future
generations of health care professionals;

(5) Engage in research which enhances its ability to meet the healthcare needs of
the People of the County; and,

(6) Perform, through the Cook County Department of Public Health, essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Cook County Board Of Health
Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38?40 of the County Code, other Cook County
Ordinances imposing duties upon the Cook County Department Of Public Health. and the
regulations of the Cook County Department Of Public Health promulgated thereunder; the
Department of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq; the Civil Administrative Code Of
Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310?1 et seq; and as further detailed in regulations promulgated
by the Illinois Department Of Public Health under the Certi?ed Local Health Department
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110 et seq; provided, however, that the County Board shall
continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook County.

This Ordinance recognizes the essential nature Of the Mission Of the as
set forth in Section 38?74 of this Article and the need for sufficient and sustainable public funding
Of the in order to fulfill its mission Of universal access to quality health care.

Sec. 38-72. Definitions.

For purposes of this Ordinance, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or
construction ascribed to them in this Section:

Chairperson means the chairperson Of the System Board.

Cook County Code means the Code Of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.

Cook County Health and Hospitals System also referred tO as means the
public health system comprised Of the facilities at, and the services provided by or through, the
Ambulatory and Community Health Network, Cermak Health Services Of Cook County, Cook
County Department of Public Health, Oak Forest Hospital Of Cook County, Provident Hospital Of
Cook County, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center, and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County, (collectively, the Facilities").

County means the County Of Cook, a body politic and corporate of 
County Board means the Board Of Commissioners Of Cook County, Illinois.
Director means a member Of the System Board.

Fiscal Year means the fiscal year Of the County.

Ordinance means the "Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, as amended.

President means the President Of the Cook County Board Of Commissioners.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 51

System Board means the eleven-member board of directors charged with governing the


Sec. 38-73. Establishment of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of
Directors (?system Board?).

The System Board is hereby created and established. The System Board shall
consist of eleven (11) members called Directors. The County Board delegates governance of
the to the System Board. The System Board shall, upon the appointment of its
Directors as provided herein, assume responsibility for the governance of the 

Notwithstanding any provision of this Ordinance, the Cook County Board of
Health Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38?40 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, and
other provisions of the Cook County Code of Ordinances conferring authority and imposing
duties and responsibilities upon the Board of Health and the Cook County Department of Public
Health, shall remain in full force and effect.

Sec. 38-74. Mission of the 

The System Board shall have the responsibility to carry out and fulfill the mission
of the by:

(1) Continuing to provide integrated health services with dignity and respect,
regardless of a patient's ability to pay;

(2) Continuing to provide access to quality primary, preventive, acute, and chronic
health care for all the People of the County;

(3) Continuing to provide high quality emergency medical services to all the People of
the County;

(4) Continuing to provide health education for patients, and continuing to participate
in the education of future generations of health care professionals;

(5) Continuing to engage in research which enhances the ability to meet the
healthcare needs of the People of the County;

(6) Ensuring efficiency in service delivery and sound fiscal management of all
aspects of the including the collection of all revenues from governmental
and private third party payers and other sources;

(7) Ensuring that all operations of the especially contractual and personnel
matters, are conducted free from any political interference and in accordance with
the provisions of the Supplemental Relief Order and Consent Decree established
in the federal civil litigation filed in the Northern District of Illinois under Case No.
69 2145 and titled Shakman, et al. v. Democratic Organization, et al. and all
applicable laws; and,

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 52

(8) Perform, through the Cock County Department of Public Health, essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Cook County Board of
Health Ordinance, Sections 38-26 through 38-40 of the Cook County Code, other
Cook County Ordinances imposing duties upon the Cook County Department of
Public Health, and the regulations of the Cook County Department of Public
Health promulgated thereunder; the Department of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS
2305/1 et seq.; the Civil AdminiStrative Code of Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310?1 et
seq.; and as further detailed in regulations promulgated by the Department
of Public Health under the Certified Local Health Department Code, 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 600.110 et seq.; provided, however, that the County Board shall continue to
serve as the Board of Health of Cook County.

The System Board shall be responsible to the People of the County for the proper
use of all funds appropriated to the by the County Board.

Sec. 38-75. Nominating Committee.

The Nominating Committee shall elect its chair from among its members and all
decisions shall be by majority vote of the membership. The Nominating Committee shall include
one (1) representative from each of the following organizations: 
Civic Federation of Chicago;

(2) Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago;
Chicago Urban League;

(4) Healthcare Financial Management Association;

(5) Suburban Primary Healthcare Council;

(6) Illinois Public Health Association;

(7) Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council;
Health and Medicine Policy Research Group;

(9) Chicago Department of Public Health;

(10) Cook County Physicians Association;

(11) Chicago Federation of Labor;

(12) Chicago Medical Society;
(13) Association of Community Safety Net Hospitals; and
(14) Midwest Latino Health Research Center.

Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0?22, ?Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health
Services Notwithstanding Any Provision in Existing Ordinances,? which ordinance is amended
by this Ordinance, the Nominating Committee convened, selected the names of twenty (20)
individuals and transmitted these names to the President for nomination to the System Board.
Pursuant to Ordinance 08-0?22, ?Ordinance Concerning The Bureau of Health Services
Notwithstanding Any Provision in Existing Ordinances," which ordinance is amended by this
Ordinance, the President then selected nine (9) names from among the names submitted by the
Nominating Committee for the office of Director, and forwarded the list of nine (9) names to the

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 53

County Board for its approval.

(0) Pursuant to this Amendatory Ordinance, the number of Directors on the System
Board shall increase from nine (9) to eleven (11), one of whom shall be the Chairperson of the
County Board's Health and Hospitals Committee, serving ex officio. Accordingly, the President
shall now select one (1) additional name from among the names initially submitted to the
President by the Nominating Committee for nomination to the System Board, and shall transmit
that name to the County Board for its approval, pursuant to Sec. 38-76 (1) of this Ordinance.

Sec. 38-76. Members of the System Board.

One of the eleven (11) Directors shall be the Chairperson of the Health and
HOSpitals Committee of the County Board who shall serve as an ex?of?cio member with voting
rights. This Director shall serve as a liaison between the County Board and the System Board.

The remaining ten (10) Directors ofthe System Board shall be appointed and
removed as follows:

(1) For the initial Directors, the County Board shall approve or reject each of the
names submitted by the President within fourteen (14) days from the date the
President submitted the names, or at the next regular meeting ofthe County
Board held subsequent to the fourteen (14) day period. Where the County Board
rejects the President's selection of any name for the office of Director, the
President shall within seven (7) days select a replacement name from the
remaining names on the initial list of twenty (20) names. There is no limit on the
number of names the County Board may reject. The County Board shall
exercise good faith in approving the initial Directors as soon as reasonably
practicable. In the event, the twenty (20) names initially submitted to the
President by the Nominating Committee are exhausted before the County Board
approves ten (10) names, the President shall direct the Nominating Committee to
reconvene and to select and submit an additional three (3) names for each
Director still to be appointed.

a. Each appointed Director, whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office
until a successor is appointed. Any appointed Director shall be eligible for
reappointment, but no appointed Director shall be eligible to serve more
than two consecutive five-year terms.

b. Upon the expiration of an appointed Director's term, the successor
Director shall be appointed in the same manner as the process set forth
above for the nomination, selection and appointment of initial Directors;
provided, however, that the Nominating Committee shall recommend
three (3) names for each Director position to be filled at that time.

c. Any appointed Director may be removed for incompetence, malfeasance,
neglect of duty, or any cause which renders the Director unfit for the
position. The President or one?third of the members of the County
Board shall provide written notice to that Director of the proposed removal
of that Director from office; which notice shall state the specific grounds
which constitute cause for removal. The Director in receipt of such notice
may request to appear before the County Board and present reasons in

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 54

support of his or her retention. Thereafter, the County Board shall vote
upon whether there are sufficient grounds to remove that Director from
office. The President shall notify the subject Director of the final action of
the County Board.

(2) In the event of a vacancy in an appointed Director position on the System Board,
the President may recommend a replacement name to the County Board for its
approval from the remaining names on the most recent list of names
recommended by the Nominating Committee. In the alternative, the President
may direct that the Nominating Committee reconvene to prepare a new list of
three (3) names for the vacancy within thirty (30) days of the President?s request.
The successor Director shall then be appointed in the same manner set forth
above for the selection and appointment of initial Directors.

a. A vacancy shall occur upon the:
. 1. Resignation,
2 Death,
3. Conviction of a felony, or
4 Removal from the office of an appointed Director as set forth in

Section of this Article.

b. Any appointed Director who is appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve until
the expiration of his predecessor?s term.

(0) The appointed Directors are not employees of the County and shall receive no
compensation for their service but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses while
serving on the System Board.

Directors shall have a fiduciary duty to the and the County.

Sec. 38-77. Qualifications of Appointed Directors.

The appointed Directors shall include persons with the requisite expertise and experience
in areas pertinent to the governance and operation of a large and complex healthcare system.
Such areas shall include, but not be limited to, finance, legal and regulatory affairs, healthcare
management, employee relations, public administration, and clinical medicine. The Nominating
Committee, the President and the County Board shall take this Section into account in

undertaking their respective responsibilities in the recommendation, selection and appointment
of Directors.

Sec. 38?78. Chairpers?onIOfficers of System Board.
The Directors shall select the initial Chairperson of the System Board from among
the initial Directors. The Chairperson shall serve a one-year term and, thereafter, the System

Board shall annually elect a chairperson from among the Directors.

(1) The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the System Board, and is entitled to
vote on all matters before the System Board.

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 55

(2) A Director may be elected to serve successive terms as Chairperson.

The Directors may establish such additional offices and appoint such additional
officers for the System Board as they may deem appropriate.

Sec. 38-79. Meetings of the System Board.

The President shall call the first meeting of the System Board. Thereafter, the
Directors shall prescribe the times and places for their meetings and the manner in which
regular and special meetings may be called.

Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however. no less than
twelve (12) meetings shall be held annually.

A majority of the voting Directors shall constitute a quorum. Actions of the System
Board shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members of the System Board
present and voting at the meeting at which the action is taken.

To the extent feasible, the System Board shall provide for and encourage
participation by the public in the development and review of?nanoial and healthcare policy. The
System Board may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its
responsibilities.

The System Board shall comply in all respects with ?An Act in relation to
meetings,? as now or hereafter amended, and found at 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.

The System Board shall be an Agency to which the ?Local Records Act," as now
or hereafter amended, and found at 50 ILCS 205/1, et seq. applies.

Sec. 38-80. General Powers of the System Board.

Subject to the Mission of the and consistent with this Ordinance, the System
Board shall have following powers and responsibilities:

To appoint the Chief Executive Officer of the or interim CEO, if
necessary, as set forth in Sec. 38-81 hereinafter, to hire such employees and to
contract with such agents, and professional and business advisers as may from
time to time be necessary in the System Board's judgment to accomplish the
Mission and the purpose and intent of this Ordinance; to fix the
compensation of such CEO, employees, agents, and advisers; and, to establish
the powers and duties of all such agents, employees, and other persons
contracting with the System Board;

To exercise oversight of the 
To develop measures to evaluate the CEO's performance and, to report to the

President and the County Board at six (6) month intervals regarding the 
performance;

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 57

To have and exercise all rights and powers necessary, convenient, incidental to,
or implied from the specific powers granted in this Ordinance, which specific
powers shall not be considered as a limitation upon any power necessary or

appropriate to carry out the Mission and the purposes and intent of this
Ordinance;

To perform, through the Cook County Department of Public Health, essential
services of a local public health authority as provided in the Cook County Board of Health
Ordinance, Sections 38?26 through 38-40 of the Cook County Code, other Cook County
Ordinances imposing duties upon the Cook County Department of Public Health, and the
regulations of the Cook County Department of Public Health promulgated thereunder; the
Department of Public Health Act, 20 ILCS 2305/1 et seq.; the Civil Administrative Code of
Illinois, 20 ILCS 2310/2310-1 et seq.; and as further detailed in regulations promulgated
by the Illinois Department of Public Health under the Certified Local Health Department
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 600.110 et seq; provided, however. that the County Board shall
continue to serve as the Board of Health of Cook County, and

To be the governing body of the licensed hospitals or other licensed entities within
the 

Sec. 38-81. Chief Executive Officer.

The System Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the 
or an interim CEO as necessary.

The System Board shall conduct a nationwide search for a CEO which shall be
concluded no later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of the County Board?s
approval of the appointment of the initial System Board.

The CEO shall have the responsibility for

(1) Full operational and managerial authority of the consistent with existing
federal and state laws, court orders and the provisions of this Ordinance;

(2) Preparing and submitting to the System Board the Budgets and Strategic and
Financial Plans required by this Ordinance;

(3) Operating and managing the consistent with the Budgets and Financial
Plans approved by the County Board;

(4) Overseeing expenditures of the 
(5) Subject to Section of this Ordinance, hiring and discipline of
personnel in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, all state laws, court

orders, and collective bargaining agreements;

(6) Negotiating collective bargaining agreements as set forth in Sec. and

HEALTH HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 58

(7) Carrying out any responsibility which the System Board may delegate; however,
said delegation shall not relieve the System Board of its responsibilities as set
forth in this Ordinance.

The CEO shall report to the System Board.

The CEO shall provide, through the System Board, quarterly reports to the County
Board concerning the status of operations and finances of the 

Sec. 38-82. Strategic and Financial Plans.

As soon as practicable following the establishment of the System Board, the
President shall provide to the System Board copies of the audited financial statements and of
the books and records of account of the Bureau of Health Services for the preceding five (5)
Fiscal Years of the County.

The System Board shall recommend and submit to the President and the County
Board Strategic and Financial Plans as required by this Section.

(0) Each Strategic and Financial Plan for each Fiscal Year, or part thereof to which it
relates, shall contain:

(1) A description of revenues and expenditures, provision for debt service, cash
resources and uses, and capital improvements, each in such manner and detail
as the County's Budget Director shall prescribe;

(2) A description of the strategy by which the anticipated revenues and expenses for
the Fiscal Years covered by the Strategic and Financial Plan will be brought into
balance;

(3) Such other matters that?the County Board, in its discretion, requires; provided,
however, that the System Board shall be provided with a description of such
matters in sufficient time for incorporation into the Strategic and Financial Plan.

Strategic and Financial Plans shall not have force or effect without the approval of
the County Board and shall be recommended, approved and monitored in accordance with the
following:

(1) The System Board shall recommend and submit to the President and the County
Board, on or before one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of the
appointment of the initial Directors or as soon as practicable thereafter, an initial
Strategic and Financial Plan with respect to the remaining portion of the Fiscal
Year ending in 2008 and for Fiscal Years 2009 and 2010. The Board shall
approve, reject or amend this initial Strategic and Financial Plan within forty?five
(45) days of its receipt from the System Board.

(2) The System Board shall develop a Strategic and Financial Plan covering a period
of three (3) Fiscal Years.

(4)

Sec. 38-83.

(8)

HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 13, 2008
PAGE 59

The System Board shall include in each Strategic and Financial Plan estimates of
revenues during the period for which the Strategic and Financial Plan applies. In
the event the System Board fails, for any reason, to include estimates of
revenues as required, the County Board may prepare such estimates. In such
event, the Strategic and Financial Plan submitted by the System Board shall be
based upon the revenue estimates prepared by the County Board.

The County Board shall approve each Strategic and Financial Plan if, in its
judgment, the Strategic and Financial Plan is complete, is reasonably capable of
being achieved, and meets the requirements set forth in this Section. After the
System Board submits a Strategic and Financial Plan to the President and the
County Board, the County Board shall approve or reject such Strategic and
Financial Plan within forty-five (45) days or such Strategic and Financial Plan is
deemed approved.

The System Board shall report to the President and the County Board, at such
times and in such manner as the County Board may direct, concerning the
System Board?s compliance with the Strategic and Financial Plan. The President
and the County Board may review the System Board's operations, obtain
budgetary data and financial statements, require the System Board to produce
reports, and have access to any other information in the possession of the
System Board that the President and the County Board deem relevant. The
County Board may issue recommendations or directives within its powers to the
System Board to assure compliance with the Strategic and Financial Plan. The
System Board shall produce such budgetary data, financial statements, reports
and other information and comply with such directives.

For each Strategic and Financial Plan applicable to a Fiscal Year subsequent to
the current Fiscal Ye',ar the System Board shall regularly reexamine the revenue
and expenditure estimates on which it was based and revise them as necessary.
The System Board shall notify the President and the County Board of
any material change in the revenue or expenditure estimates in that Strategic and
Financial Plan. The System Board may submit to the President and the County
Board, or the County Board may require the System Board to submit, modified
Strategic and Financial Plans based upon revised revenue or expenditure
estimates or for any other good reason. The County Board shall approve or
reject each modified Strategic and Financial Plan pursuant to paragraph of
this Section.

Preliminary Budget and Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

The System Board shall not make expenditures unless such expenditures are

consistent with the County?s Annual Appropriation Bill (?Annual Appropriation Ordinance?) as
provided in 55 ILCS 516-24001 et seq.



The System Board may, if necessary, recommend and submit to the President

and the County Board, for approval by the County Board a request for intra-fund transfers within
the Public Health Fund to accommodate any proposed revisions by the System Board to the line
items set forth for the Bureau of Health Services In the existing Fiscal Year 2008 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance.

