MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
May 19 and 20, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Tuesday, May 19, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was held
on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Tuesday, May 19, 2009 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and
Jim Sullivan. At 9:40 a.m. on Tuesday May 19, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Pending Litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters;
Closed session minutes; and
Evidence and testimony presented in disciplinary hearings.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call
vote.
On Wednesday, May 20, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 12:05 p.m. Present were the following
Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, James
Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 12:50 p.m. The Board went into
open session at 1:10 p.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Moore moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of April 13 & 14, 2009. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Moore moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of April 14, 2009. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 BOARD MEMBER COMMENTS Member Gardner invited Mr. Milne General Manager of the Casino Rock Island to the podium.
Member Gardner commented on the material supplied to the Board Members and senior staff
relating to Casino Rock Island’s annual update. Member Gardner commented on the AGR; Mr.
Milne stated that it was somewhat inaccurate because of double counting. Mr. Milne went on to
explain the numbers. He also stated that even though the revenue is doubled it still is not what
CRI projected. Member Gardner questioned the AGR for the first two months of the year which
was $12M.
Member Winkler questioned Mr. Milne about the charitable contributions that Casino Rock
Island had documented. Mr. Milne agreed that more can be done and a plan will be drafted for
the projections for “09”. Member Winkler commented on the diversity of the staff. Mr. Milne
stated out of 640 staff members; 17% are minority relative to a 12% minority status in the Quad
City area. The senior staff has no minorities at this time and CRI will continue to try to remedy
the situation.
Member Moore asked if a plan is in place to improve the numbers. Mr. Milne stated that no plan
is in place as of yet but in the near future there will be.
ADMINISTRATORS REPORT –
Administrator Ostrowski stated that the staff and Board are working with Empress to ensure the
opening of the 25th of June. Frank Quigley General Manager of the Empress Casino stepped up
to the podium.
Frank Quigley addressed the Board. He stated that the Empress can now fast track and
accelerate the process of re-building the property. Changes are being made so that the facility
will open by June 25, 2009. The operation will be “a brand new casino” so to speak. Tent
structures will be set up for temporary parking and egress. The level of charitable contributions
is on target. The employee base is diversified but not within the senior management level.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS
●

Item for Initial Consideration –
MGM/Nevada Landing – Request to Issue a Subsidiary Guarantee Under 2 new
Note Classes

●

Tracinda Corporation – Request to Pledge Newly Acquired Shares of MGM

●

Item for Final Action
●

Par-A-Dice Casino – Brian M. Pearson – Internal Auditor – Level One

2

 Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore
moved that the Board approve Brian M. Pearson as an Occupational
Licensee Level 1 in the position of Internal Auditor at the Par-A-Dice
Hotel and Casino in East Peoria, Illinois. Member Gardner seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner commended Mr. Pearson for a job well done.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that the
Board approve 34 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 105
applications for an Occupational License, Level 3.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individuals who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.
1.
2.

Sherita L. Readus; and
Vicky L. Hall.

Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

• Tanya McGlown - Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that the
Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Tanya McGlown, an occupational
licensee, for failing to disclose a March 4, 2009 arrest for Domestic Battery.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board suspend Tanya McGlown’s
occupational license for 10 work days without pay. Said action to take effect
twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the complaint unless the licensee
files an Answer within that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

Dana Thompson – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Dana Thompson, an
occupational licensee, for failing to pay for meals at the employee dining
room and swiping her ID card used to track dining room meals in an attempt
to make it appear that she had paid for the meals.

3

 Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke Dana Thompson’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the
date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within
that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
●

William Brummond – Occupational Licensee
Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Winkler moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against William Brummond, an
occupational licensee, for stealing food products from Casino Queen.
Further, Member Winkler moved that the Board revoke William Brummond’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the
date of service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within
that time period. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 1:40 p.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn while Member Gardner seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 