Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila,
Commissioner Timothy Bradford, Commissioner Cynthia M.
Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of Finance
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner Patrick D.Thompson, Acting President Barbara
J. McGowan
Tuesday, December 2, 2014

2:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
Acting President Barbara J. McGowan presiding, called the meeting to order at
2:00 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; Kari K. Steele; and Patrick D. Thompson

Absent:

1-

Michael A. Alvarez

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

14-1318

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
Of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday, December 2,
2014 at 2:00 PM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Installation of Commissioners will occur at the Annual Meeting

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

2

14-1323
Attachments:

President's Annual Message 2014
2014 Presidents Message
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Annual Meeting

Meeting Minutes

December 2, 2014

Open Discussion
David St. Pierre, Executive Director, presented the Certificates of Election to re-elected
Commissioners Frank Avila, Cynthia M. Santos, and elected Commissioner Timothy
(Tim) Bradford.
Following the presentation, the Honorable Edmund Ponce de Leon, Circuit Court Judge
of Cook County, administered the Oath of Office to re-elected Commissioner Frank
Avila, the Honorable Lindzey D. Jones, Circuit Court Judge of Cook County,
administered the Oath of Office to elected Commissioner Timothy (Tim) Bradford,
Honorable Thomas R. Allen, Circuit Court Judge of Cook County, administered the
Oath of Office to re-elected Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Timothy Bradford, that
this Annual Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation. roll call vote:
Barbara J. McGowan adjourned the meeting at 3:20 p.m.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Timothy Bradford,
that this be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Barbara J. McGowan adjourned the meeting at 3:20 p.m.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
Aye:

8-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson

Absent:

1-

Michael A. Alvarez

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 2, 2014, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Barbara J. McGowan
Acting President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 2, 2014

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 