REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
PUBLIC HEARING

SEPTEMBER 1 6, 2008

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Collins, Gorman, Goslin, Maldonado, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica,
Schneider, Silvestri and Suffredin (15)

Absent: President Stroger and Commissioners Quigley and Steele (2)

Also Present: Honorable James M. Houlihan, Assessor of Cook County; Donna Dunnings
Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance; Pat Curtner Managing
Partner, Chapman Cutler, Bond Counsel; and Michael Prinzi - Assistant
State's Attorney, Division Chief, Transactions, Municipal Litigation and Real
Estate Taxation Division

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant
to notice for a public hearing on Tuesday, September 16, 2008 at the hour of 11:00 AM. in the
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Chairman Daley noted for the record the court reporter, Anthony Lisanti was ill and unable to
attend the meeting. Mr. Lisanti will be provided a copy of the audio recording of the meeting to
prepare the transcript of the proceedings.

Chairman Daley proceeded with Communication Number 294601.

294601 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR ASSESSMENT (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Transmitting a Communication from James M. Houlihan, Cook
County Assessor. I am forwarding the classification ordinance changes for
submission for the agenda for the June 17, 2008 Cook County Board of
Commissioner's meeting. It is our hope that these changes in classification levels
for both residential and commercial properties will provide additional clarity for
taxpayers regarding the assessment process.

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by

FORREST CLAYPOOL, ROBERTO MALDONADO, and
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY and JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioners

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

PAGE2

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article ll, Division 2 Sec. 74-64 is hereby amended, as follows:

DIVISION 2. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR ASSESSMENT
Sec. 74-64. Market value percentages.

The Assessor shall assess, and the Board of Appeals Review shall review,
assessments on real estate in the various classes at the following percentages of
market value:

(1) Class 1: percent.
(2) Class 2: 46 1_0 percent.

(3) Class 3: 36 2_4 percent, in tax year 2666 22 
percent in tax year 2661 gm, and?26 percent in tax year 2666
and subsequent years.

(4) Class 4: 36 percent.

(5) Class 5a: 36 2_5 percent.
(6) Class 5b: 36 percent.

(7) Class 6b: 46 percent fer first ten years and for any
subsequent ten-year renewal periods; if the incentive is not
renewed, 23 percent in year 11 and 36 percent in year 12.

(8) Class C: Industrial properties: 46 percent for first ten years,
23 percent in year 11 and 36 percent in year 12; commercial
properties: 46 1_0 percent for first ten years, 23 percent in year
11 and 36 29 percent in year 12.

(9) Class 7a: 46 percent for first ten years, 23 1g percent in
year 11 and 36 percent in year 12.

(10) Class 7b: 46 percent for first ten years, 23 percent in
year 11 and 36 percent in year 12.

(11) Class 8: 46 percent for first ten years and for any
subsequent ten?year renewal periods; if the incentive is not
renewed, 23 percent in year 11 and 36 percent in year 12.

(12) Class 9: 46 percent for an initial. ten-year period,
renewable upon application for additional ten-year periods.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

PAGE 3

(13) Class S: 46 1_0 percent for the term of the Section 8 contract
renewal under the mark up to market option, as defined herein, and
for any additional terms of renewal of the Section 8 contract under
the mark up to market option.

(14) Class L, renewable properties: 16 percent for first ten
years and for any subsequent ten?year renewal periods; if the
incentive is not renewed, 23 percent in year 11 and 39 gg
percent in year 12; commercial properties: 46 percent for first
ten years, 23 15; percent in year 11 and 39 percent in year 12.

Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective for the 2009 tax
year

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 6/17/08.

Chairman Daley asked the Honorable James M. Houlihan, Assessor of Cook County to give an
overview of the proposed ordinance amendment.

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec10.
11.

Jerry Roper President and Chief Executive Officer, Chicagoland Chamber of
Commerce. Written statement also distributed.

Michael Cornicelli - Executive Vice President, Building Owners Managers Association
of Chicago (BOMA). Written statement also distributed.

Judy Roettig Executive Vice President, Chicagoland Apartment Association. Written
statement also distributed.

George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Laurence Msall President, Civic Federation. Written statement also distributed.

John K. Norris Attorney, Illinois Property Tax Lawyers Association. Written statement
also distributed.

Donald T. Rubin Attorney, President, Illinois Property Tax Lawyers Association. Written
statement also distributed.

Gary Smith Attorney. Written statement also distributed.

Andrea Raila Andrea Raila Associates.

Mike Slinkman Rental property owner

Brian A. Bernardoni Senior Director of Government and Public Policy, Chicago
Association of Realtors. Written statement also distributed.

Written statement onlv

1 .

Sheila O'Grady President, Illinois Restaurant Association

Commissioner Claypool, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved that the Ordinance
Amendment (Comm. No. 294601) be approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley asked to added as a sponsor of the Ordinance Amendment (Comm. No.
294601).

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

PAGE4

Following discussion, Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Peraica,
moved to defer consideration of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Comm. No.
294601). Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as
follows:

ROLL CALL 0N MOTION TO DEFER
Yeas: Commissioners Beavers, Gorman, Goslin, Peraica, Schneider and Silvestri (6)

Nays: COmmissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins, Maldonado, Murphy, Suffredin and
Chairman Daley (7)

Present: Vice Chairman Sims (1)

Absent: Commissioners Moreno, Quigley and Steele (3)

The motion to defer FAILED.

A vote was taken on the main motion to approve and adopt the Ordinance Amendment
(Comm. No. 294601). Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and
nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE

Yeas: Commissioners Butler, Claypool, Collins, Gorman, Goslin, Maldonado, Murphy,
Schneider, Silvestri and Chairman Daley (10)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers, Peraica and Suffredin (3)

Present: Vice Chairman Sims (1)

Absent: Commissioners Moreno, Quigley and Steele (3)

The motion carried and the Ordinance Amendment was APPROVED.

Chairman Daley proceeded with Communication Number 295323.

295323 AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF ONE OR MORE
SERIES OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS OF THE COUNTY OF COOK,
ILLINOIS. Transmitting a Communication, dated July 22, 2008 from Donna

Dunnings, Chief Financial Officer.

I am transmitting for your approval an Ordinance in support of the proposed sale
of Cook County's General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds, Series 2008.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance:

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

PAGE 5

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by
TODD H. STROGER, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF
ONE OR MORE SERIES OF
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
OF THE COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS

WHEREAS, Section 6(3) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois provides that "a County which has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the
electors of the County (is) a Home Rule Unit" and The County of Cook, Illinois
(the ?County?), has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the electors of the County
and is therefore a Home Rule Unit and may, under the power granted by said
Section 6(a) of Article VII of the Constitution of 1970, as supplemented by the
Local Government Debt Reform Act, as amended, and the other Omnibus Bond
Acts, as amended, exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs, including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to incur
debt; and

Referred to the Committee on Finance on 07122108.

Chairman Daley announced an amended Ordinance had been distributed by the Chief Financial
Officer to all members and that the amended ordinance is what the committee will be
considering today.

Chairman Daley asked Donna Dunnings, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance, to give an
overview of the proposed ordinance.

Commissioner Butler, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, moved that the amended
Ordinance (Comm. No. 295323) be approved and adopted.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to amend Section
11.A. of the amended Ordinance, as follows:

Amendment to Section 11.A. sponsored by Commissioners Silvestri, Daley, Goslin, Gorman,
Schneider and Sims:

A. SALE OF BONDS. me Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to sell
all or any portion of the several Series of the Bonds to the respective
Underwriters from time to time on such terms as she may deem to be in the best
interests of the County; provided that in each case the Purchase Price shall be
at least ninety-eight percent of the proceeds of the Bonds (exclusive of
any net original issue discount used in the marketing of the Bonds, not to exceed
10% of the principal amount thereof), plus accrued interest, if any, on the Bonds
from their Dated Date to the date of their issuance, (ii) the aggregate amount of
principal of and interest on and Maturity Amount of the Bonds (based, for

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING
SEPTEMBER 16, 2008
PAGES

Variable Rate Bonds, on the reasonable estimate of the Chief Financial Officer
as hereinabove provided) in any year shall not exceed the aggregate amount
levied therefor pursuant hereto plus capitalized interest, if any, and as an
additional limitation on the sale of the Refunding Bonds, each such certificate or
report (as hereinabove described) must set forth that the Refunding will provide a
present value debt service savings to the County resulting from the issuance of
Refunding Bonds to refund each maturity, or part of a maturity, of the Refunded
which are chosen to be refunded, which report shall demonstrate that the County
will realize a minimum net present value savings of three percent of the
debt service on the Refunded Bonds being refunded. The Bonds may be sold
from time to time as the Chief Financial Officer shall determine that the proceeds
of such sales are needed. Incidental to each sale of the several Series of Bonds
the Chief Financial Officer shall provide the Corporate Authorities a written
notification of the sale of such Bonds which notification shall describe such
Series of Bonds in detail. Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale
of the Bonds or any maturity or maturities thereof at a price or prices in excess of
the principal amount thereof.

 

Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AMENDMENT TO SECTION 11.A.

Yeas: Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Collins, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider,
Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims and Chairman Daley (10)

Nays: Commissioners Claypool, Peraica and Suffredin (3)

Absent: Commissioners Maldonado, Moreno, Quigley and Steele (4)
The motion carried and the amendment to Section 11.A. was APPROVED.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to amend Section 3,
paragraph 9 of the amended Ordinance, as follows: ?All Bonds shall become due and
payable as provided in the relevant Bond Order, provided, however, that no Bond shall

have a Stated Maturity which is later than the date which is feisty?(40) twenty-five (25)
years after its Dated Date.?

The motion to amend Section 3, paragraph 9 CARRIED.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to delete in its
entirety Section of the amended Ordinance, as follows:

I. QUALIFIED SWAP AGREEMENTS. The President or the Chief Financial
Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver from time to time one or more
Qualified Swap Agreements with Swap Providers selected by the Chief Financial
Officer, the purpose of which is to hedge or manage the County?s interest cost
with respect to the Bonds (or any portion thereof), or to reduce the County?s

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

PAGE7

exposure to fluctuations in the interest rate or rates payable on the Bonds or to
insure, protect or preserve its investments from any loss (including, without
limitation, loss caused by fluctuations in interest rates, markets or in securities).
The stated aggregate notional amount under all such Qualified Swap
Agreements authorized hereunder shall not exceed the principal amount of the
Bonds issued hereunder (net of offsetting transactions entered into by the
County). Any such Qualified Swap Agreement to the extent practicable shall be
in substantially the form of either the Local Currency - Single Jurisdiction version
or the Multicurrency-Cross Border version of the 1992 Master Agreement
accompanied by a schedule based upon the US. Municipal Counterparty
Schedule published by the International Swap Dealers Association (the 
or any successor form to be published by the and in the appropriate
confirmations of transactions governed by that agreement, with such insertions,
completions and modifications thereof as shall be approved by the officer of the
County executing the same, her execution to constitute conclusive evidence of
the Corporate Authorities? approval of such insertions, completions and
modifications thereof. Interest Rate Exchange Obligations or other amounts
payable by the County under any such Qualified Swap Agreement (being,
collectively, ?Swap Payments?) shall constitute operating expenses of the County
payable from any moneys, revenues, receipts, income, assets or funds of the
County available for such purpose or be payable from the Pledged Taxes, as the
Chief Financial Officer may from time to time determine. Swap Payments shall
not constitute an indebtedness of the County for which its full faith and credit is
pledged. Nothing contained in this Section shall limit or restrict the authority of
the President or the Chief Financial Officer to enter into similar agreements
pursuant to prior or subsequent authorization of the Corporate Authorities.

The motion to delete Section 11.  in its entirety CARRIED.
A vote was taken on the main motion to approve and adopt the amended Ordinance
(Comm. No. 295323), as amended. Commissioner Peraica called for a Roll Call, the vote

of yeas and nays being as follows:

ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO
APPROVE AS AMENDED

Yeas: Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Collins, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy,
Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims and Chairman Daley (11)

Nays: Commissioners Claypool, Peraica and Suffredin (3)
Absent: Commissioners Maldonado, Quigley and Steele (3)
The motion carried and the Ordinance was APPROVED AS AMENDED.

Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
PUBLIC HEARING

SEPTEMBER 16, 2008

PAGE 8

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 294601 Approved

Communication Number 295323 Approved as amended

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance


?n P. Daley, ChairmaV

7; 75 574,

Ma?th?'w B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

