REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

February 29, 2012

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

Also
Present:

ATTENDANCE
Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele, Suffredin and
Tobolski (16)

Commissioner Collins (1)

Patrick Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to
published notice on Thursday, February 29, 2012 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. in the Board Room, Room
569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

316772

AN AMENDMENT 0 CHAPTER 74 TAXATION, ARTICLE XI TOBACCO TAX,
SECTIONS 74-430 74?447 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting
a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President and Jerry
Butler, John P. Daley, Bridget Gainer, Jesus G. Garcia, Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims and
Robert B. Steele, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TOBACCO TAX AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article XI Tobacco Tax, Sections 74-430 - 74-447 is hereby amended as
follows:
Sec. 74-430. - Short title.
This article may be cited as the ?Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance".

Sec. 74-431. De?nitions.

For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or definitions
are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section.

Altered 0r mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on which the identity information is
illegible or incomplete.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE2

Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing
tobacco (other than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette as de?ned in this article).

Cigarette means any roll for smoking made Wholly or in part of tobacco, irrespective of
size or shape and whether such tobacco is ?avored, adulterated or mixed with any other
ingredient, or not, and the wrapper of which is made of paper or any other substance or
material except tobacco.

Concealment means cigarettes, other tobacco products, or cigarette tax stamps, in violation
of this article, deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by or
in the possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible.

Consumer means a person who purchases cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products from a
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer.

Counterfeit cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a false, forged,
arti?cial or imitation manufacturing label.

County means the County of Cook.

Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of Finance of the County
of Cook.

Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Improperly stamped pack means, any packs of cigarettes on which is af?xed an
altered/mutilated; used or reused; or counterfeit tax stamp.

Large cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing
tobacco and weighing more than three pounds per thousand.

Little cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing
tobacco and not weighing more than three pounds per thousand.

Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed container, pack, or
package as provided by the manufacturer or as a result of any wholesale or retail tobacco
dealer or person breaking or otherwise opening any cigarette package to sell or distribute
individual cigarettes or a number of unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the
minimum package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of cigarettes that is smaller than the
smallest package distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer use.

Loose little cigars mean little cigars that are not contained within a sealed container, pack
or package as provided by the manufacturer.

Manufacturer means any person, other than a Retail Cigarette Manufacturer, who makes or
fabricates cigarettes and/or tobacco products and sells them.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE3

Other Tobacco p?roducts includes, but is not limited to, smokeless tobacco, smoking
tobacco, large cigars and little cigars, but does not include cigarettes.

Package means the original packet, box, tin or container whatsoever used to contain and to
convey cigarettes or other tobacco products to the consumer.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association and any other legal entity.

Pipe tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or
labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as
tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.

Premises means, but is not limited to, buildings, vehicles or any place where cigarette or
Other Tobacco Products inventory is possessed, stored or sold.

Purchaser means a buyer of cigarettes or Ollier 'l'obacce Products, including but not
?mited to, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette niamifacturers andtor consumer err?end-

{158%.

Retail cigarette manufacturer means any retail tobacco dealer who provides to consumers
tobacco and other material and 
equipment for the production and sale of
cigarettes within the retaileiis_cigarette manufacturer?s premises?(as?de?ned?here?in) in
Cook County.

Retail tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling cigarettes

or other tobacco products in the County of Cook to a consumer perehaseFfer?ese?er
eonsurnptieH?and not for resale in any form.

Roll?your-own tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type,
packaging or labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by,
consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes or cigars or for use as wrappers of cigars or
cigarettes.

Sale, resale, selling means any transfer of ownership or possession, or both, exchange or
barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a valuable

consideration.

Smokeless tobacco includes any snuff, snus, chewing tobacco, or other tobacco products
not intended to be smoked.

Smoking tobacco includes granulated, plug cut, crimp out, ready rubbed and other kinds
and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to be suitable for smoking in a pipe or

cigarette.

Snu? means any ?nely cut, ground or powered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE4

Snus means any moist tobacco product that is not_int_end_ed to be smoked.

Stamp means paper or other material with an imprint or decalcomania device thereon, of
such size, design, color and denominations as may be prescribed and procured by the
Department which, when af?xed to a package of cigarettes, shall evidence payment of the
tax thereon, as provided by this article.

Tobacco products includes, but is not limited to, any cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques;
granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; w, snuff or
snuff, ?our; Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; ?ne-cut and other chewing tobaccos;
shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweeping of tobacco; and other kinds and
forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a
pipe or otherwise, or both chewing and smoking; but does not include cigarettes or tobacco
purchased for the manufacture of cigarettes by cigarette wholesale tobacco dealers and
manufacturers as de?ned in this article.

Unit means any division of quantity that may be used as a standard to measure the quantity
sold based on length, width, weight such as pounds, ounces and/or grams or volume or
some other similar unit of measure, including but not limited to per item.

Unstamped pack means any pack of cigarettes on which a Cook County tax stamp is not
af?xed.

Use means any exercise of 3 right or power, actual or constructive, and shall include but is
not limited to the receipt, storage, or any keeping or retention for any length of time, but
shall not include possession for sale by a retail tobacco dealer, retail cigarette manufacturer
or wholesale tobacco dealer as de?ned in this article.

Used or reused tax stamp means any tax stamp previously af?xed to a tobacco product,
removed and subsequently af?xed to any tobacco product purchased, offered for sale or
sold by any person, wholesale or retail tobacco dealer; or any removed tax stamp
purchased, offered for sale, sold by, or in the possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco
dealer. 

Wholesale tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling or
supplying cigarettes and/or Other tlobacco pEroducts, who brings or causes to be brought
into the County of Cook cigarettes, and/or Other Tobacco Products teeny?person for ?_aI_e
gr_ resale to retail tobacco dealers and/or retail cigarette manufacturers in or outside the
County of Cook. For the purposes of this article, wholesale tobacco dealers also include
persons or businesses licensed as tobacco distributors or cigarette distributors with the
State of 

Sec. 74?432. - Registration of wholesale, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette
manufacturer.

Wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers as
de?ned in this article, shall register with the Department in accordance with policies or
procedures prescribed by the Department.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGES

Sec. 74-433. - Tax imposed; cigarettes, other tobacco products; collection; remittance.

Cigarette at rate. A tax at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10 per cigarette is hereby
imposed upon all cigarettes possessed for sale and upon the use of all cigarettes within the
County of Cook, the ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax to be borne
by the consumer of said cigarettes. The tax imposed hereby at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10
per cigarette shall become in force and effect on March 1, 2006. The tax herein levied shall
be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Cigarette Tax stamp purchases. The tax imposed in this section shall be paid by
purchase of tax stamps from the Department, except as otherwise provided in Subsections
74-446(a) and of this article. The Department shall only sell Cook County cigarette tax
stamps to cigarette distributors who are licensed with the State of Illinois. It shall be the
duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer, before delivering or causing to be delivered any
cigarettes to a retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook to purchase from the Department
a tax stamp for each package of cigarettes and to cancel said stamps prior to the delivery of
such cigarettes to any retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook. Said stamps shall be
af?xed and cancelled in the manner prescribed by rules and regulations of the Department.

(0) Retail cigarette manufacturer t_a_J_c rate. A tax at the rate of $0.10 per cigarette is
hereby imposed upon each cigarette predueed sold by a retail cigarette manufacturer. _Th_e
tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Other tobacco product tax rate. A tax at the rates speci?ed in this section is
herebv imposed upon the sale of all Other Tobacco Products within the County of Cook,
the ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said ta}: to be borne by the Consumer
of said Other Tobacco Products. The tax imposed hereby at the rates listed iirmsubsection
shall come into force and effect on March 1. 2012 and subsection on January I,
2013.

(1) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following
products through December 31, 2012:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.

b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.

c. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

(1. Large cigars: $0.25 per unit or cigar.

(2) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following
products effective January 1, 2013:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.

b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.

c. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

(1. Large cigars: $0.30 per unit or cigar.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE6

Floor Tax. Notwithstanding subsection of this Section. on or before March 29,
2Ul2 and January 20, 2013, every retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette 111anulacturer
doing business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department. on forms prescribed
bv the Department? tswom inventory of Other Tobacco Products in their possessmn or
control as ell l:59 em. on Februarv 29. 2012 and December 3 t. 2012 rcsnectivelv. W1_th
Ed inventoiyivetyretail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette 111211111l?g1_ct11rer shall pav to the
County taxes ri?e rates se_t__forth above on said inventory. includ i_1_1gwa1,1y_dejlional taxes
due as a result of this article, as amended.

(of) Wholesale Tobacco Dealer Tax, Retail Tobacco Dealer and Retail Cigarette
Manufacturer Tax collection. Any wholesale tobacco dealer who shall remit to the Coungg
pay the tax levied by this article shall collect the tax from any retail
tobacco dealer and/or retail cigarette manufacturer to whom the sale of said cigarettes
oOther tTobacco pProducts is made, and any retail tobacco dealer and retail
cigarette manufacturer shall, in turn, collect the tax from the pureha-ser Consumer. ef?said

. .Any such tax
shall be collected as a trustee for and on account of the County of Cook. Nothing 1n this
Article shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of wholesale tobacco dealer.
retail tobacco dealer. and retail cigarette manufacturer.

 

 

 

1. Wholesale Tobacco Dealers. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer
to remit the tax due on the sales of Other Tobacco Products toiretail tobacco
dealers and for retail cigarette manufacturers in Cook Countv on forms prescribed
bv the Department. on or before the 20*? day of the month following the month in
which the sales of Other Tobacco Products occurred.

2. Retail Cigarette Manufacturers. It shall be the duty of every retail cigarette
manufacturer to remit the tax due on cigarettes produced and sold on_t_he premises.
on forms prescribed_lq_v the Department! on or before the 20'? day of the month
following the month in which the marede sales occurred.

3. Retail tobacco dealers and /or retail cigarette manufacturers untaxed Other
Tobacco Products. It shall be the duty of every retail tobacco dealer andlou-etail
cigarette manufacturer that purchases or acquires Other 'l'obacco Products on
which the tax set forth in this Article on Other Tobacco Products has not been
paid. to remit the tax due on forms prescribed bv the Department. on?er before the
20th day following the month in which the Other Tobacco Products for which taxes
were not maid were purchased or acquired by the retail tobacco dealer or retail
marette manufacturer.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE7

Tax included in sales price. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for a retail
tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer to fail to include the tax imposed in this
article in the sale price of cigarettes and other tobacco products to otherwise absorb such
tax. The tax levied in this article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Tax debt owed to County. The tax required in this article to be remitted to
the 

shall constitute a debt owed by such Q): wholesale tobacco dealer, or
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer te?the?GeuntySec. 74?434. - Tax free sales.

Wholesale tobacco dealers doing business in Cook County shall not pay or collect a tax
with respect to cigarettes and/or other tobacco products which are otherwise subject to the
tax when the cigarettes and/or other tobacco products are being sold to the following:

 

Another wholesale tobacco dealer holding a valid Cook County tobacco wholesaler?s
registration certi?cate; and?g

A wholesale tobacco dealer or a retail tobacco dealer the
selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the cigarettes or other
tobacco products to a location outside of Cook County.

Sec. 74-435. - Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties.

It shall be a violation of this article to engage in the sale, possession, or use of any
cigarettes and/or other tobacco products subject to any tax provided by this article upon
which said tax has not been paid or the stamps af?xed and cancelled as herein required,
including, as described in this article:

(1) Counterfeit cigarettes or counterfeit other tobacco products.
(2) Counterfeit tax stamps.

(3) Improperly stamped packs.

(4) Unstamped packs.

It shall be a violation of this article for any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco
dealer, or retail cigarette manufacturer to engage in any of the following:

(1) Utilization of used or reused tax stamps by possessing or offering for sale or resale
packs of cigarettes af?xed with a used or reused tax stamp.

(2) Concealment, as described in this article.

(3) Sell or distribute loose cigarettes. a-Flittleeigars.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGES

(4) Sell cigarettes to any person, other than to another registered Cook County wholesale
tobacco dealer, unless each package bears an un-mutilated Cook County tax stamp af?xed,
or where the selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the unstamped
cigarettes to a location outside Cook County.

(5) Hinder or prevent an authorized Department representative from performing an
inspection or audit.

(0) Prima facie presumption. The sale, resale or possession by a wholesale tobacco
dealer or retail tobacco dealer of altered/mutilated, counterfeit, used or reused tax stamps;
or packs of counterfeit, improperly stamped, unstamped cigarettes or loose cigarettesg?
the sale. resale or possession. by a retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer-Ag
Other Tobacco Products on which the tax has not been paid shall give rise to the prima
facie presumption that the wholesale tobacco dealer or retail tobacco dealer or retail
cigarette manufacturer is in violation of the provisions of this article. Retail tobacco
dealers orletail cigarette manufacturers shall be held strictly liable for violations of this
ordinance that occur within their premises?as?de?ned?hereia: regardless of the
employment status of the actual violator.

 

 

Cigarette pack, tax stamp, loose cigarettes mad?little?eigars, other tobacco products
and hindrance violation penalties.

 

i Violation ype I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Penalties
Amount I
Concealment
Offense $2,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Com-Hetffeit packs of cigarettes
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per pack 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Counterfeit tax stamps
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per stamp 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Improperly 
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per pack 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2000.00
Loose cigarettes .5er
40 or less 1,000.00
40 or more, per cigarette 25.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00
Other tobacco products
offense 1,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00
Sales to unregistered wholesalers

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE9
offense 2,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
panics
40 packs or less 1,000.00
41 packs or more, per pack 25.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00
Utilization of used or reused tax stamps
40 or less packs or stamps 2,000.00
41 or more packs or stamps, per pack or stamp 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Hinder inspection or audit
offense 1,000.00
2nd and each subsequent olfense, an additional 2,000.00

 

 

Sec. 74-436. - Other violation penalties.

Any person determined to have violated this article, as amended, excluding the
violations described in Section 74-435 (Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and
penalties), shall be subject to a ?ne in the amount of $1,000.00 for the ?rst offense, and a
?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such
violation, or permit any such violation to exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be deemed
a violation of this article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate
information to the Department. I

Criminal penalties. Every person who shall falsely make, alter, forge or counterfeit
any tax stamp, or who, with intent to defraud the County, shall af?x or cause to be af?xed
any counterfeit or altered stamp to any package of cigarettes, knowing said stamp to be
counterfeit or altered, shall be guilty of a Class misdemeanor, in addition to any other
criminal penalties which may be applicable under Illinois or Federal law.

(0) Criminal prosecution. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no
way bar the right of the County to institute civil proceedings to recover
delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs incurred for
such proceeding.

Sec. 74-437. Internet, mail order and outside?of?county purchases.

With respect to cigarettes or tobacco products purchased over the internet, by mail order or
outside the County, if the tax on cigarettes and other tobacco products which is imposed
pursuant to this article, as amended, has not been paid by a wholesaler or retailer prior to
use or possession of the cigarette or tobacco product by a person within the County of
Cook, such person shall be obligated to make payment of the tax directly to the
Department. Within 30 days of purchase, such person shall ?le a return with the
Department of Revenue and pay the tax, penalties and interest due under this article, as

amended.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012


Sec. 74-438. - Mutilation of tax stamps.

It is unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax stamp herein required on any package of
cigarettes before it is sold by a retail tobacco dealer.

Sec. 74-439. Books and records to be kept.

Wholesale tobacco dealer records of deliveries. At the time of delivering cigarettes
or Other Tobacco Products to any person doing business in the County of Cook, it shall be
the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer to make a true triplicate invoice, numbered
serially, showing the date of delivery, the number of packages, the number of cigarettes
contained therein in each shipment of cigarettes delivered, or amount of Other Tobacco
Products delivered, and the name of the purchaser to whom delivery is made. The
wholesaler to_bacco_dealer shall issue one copy of the invoice to the purchaser, and shall
retain one legible copy of the same for the use and inspection of the Department for the
period of time as provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedure Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).

Wholesaler and Retailer inventory purchases; sales; reconciliations. It shall be the
duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer and retail tobacco dealer to make or maintain
cigarette and/or Other Tobacco Products inventory:

(1) Purchase order documents, serially numbered, indicating the date; name, address of
the person or business from whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products were
purchased; brand name, type and total number of packages to be purchased, in sequential
date order.

(2) Delivery or receipt documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address
of the person or business to whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products were
delivered; brand name, type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date order.

(3) Wholesale tobacco dealer sales documents, serially numbered indicating the date;
name, address of the person or business to whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products
were sold; brand name, type and total number of paoks delivered, in sequential date order.
(4) Retail tobacco dealer sales documents, indicating in sequential date order, brand
name, type and total number of packs or amounts of Other Tobacco Products sold, each
day.

(5) Retail tobacco dealer cigarette inventory reconciliation, indicating daily, weekly or
beginning inventory, purchases, sales and ending inventory, in sequential date
order.

(6) Retail tobacco dealer wholesaler list, indicating the name and address of
each wholesaler from whom cigarette or Other Tobacco Products inventory was purchased;
brand name; type and total number of packs purchased from each wholesaler.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 1 1

Taxable and nontaxable transaction books and records. It shall be the duty of
all wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette
manufacturers and persons required by this article to collect and/or to pay the
taxes herein imposed to keep and maintain all books, papers and records
related to all transactions taxable and nontaxable under this article and to make
such records available to the Director or a duly authorized representative who
has been appointed, by the Director, on request for inspection, audit and/0r
copying during regular business hours. The Department shall promulgate rules
and regulations specifying the records that shall be kept by wholesale tobacco
dealers, retail tobacco dealers. retail cigarette manufacturers and persons
required by this article to collect and or/pay the taxes herein imposed, and may
prescribe any forms appropriate in furtherance of this article. Books, papers
and records which relate to a return ?led or required to be ?led with the
Department shall be kept for the period as provided for in the Cook County
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34?60 et seq.).
The burden shall be on the wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers
and retail cigarette manufacturers to keep records
which verify the basis for any and all transactions which are claimed to be
exempt from taxation pursuant to Section 74-434 of this article.

Sec. 74-440. Inspections; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with Section 74?439 of this article shall be made
available to the Department upon request for inspection, audit and/or copying during
regular business hours. Representatives of the Department shall be permitted to inspect or
audit cigarette or Other Tobacco Products inventory in or upon any premises. An audit or
inspection may include the physical examination of the cigarettes, packaging,?er?the
cigarette tax stamps or Other Tobacco Products. It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing the
enforcement duties provided in this article.

Sec. 74?441. - Con?scate; seize; redemption penalty.

Con?scation; seizure. Whenever the Department or any of its duly authorized
representatives shall discover any cigarettes and/or other tobacco products subject to any
tax provided by this article upon which said tax has not been paid or the stamps af?xed and
cancelled as herein required, they are hereby authorized and empowered forthwith to
con?scate; seize and take possession of such cigarettes and/or other tobacco products
together with any vending machine; receptacle; container; vessel or holder in which they
are held for sale except for money contained in such vending machine or receptacle, shall
thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.

Cigarette redemption penalty. The Department shall either destroy the cigarettes
seized or may permit the Wholesale Tobacco Dealer from whom the said
cigarettes were seized, to redeem the cigarettes and/or any vending machine or
receptacle seized therewith, by the payment of a Redemption Penalty equal to
100 percent of the tax due, and including the cost incurred in such proceeding.
Such seizure, destruction, and sale, or redemption shall not be deemed to relieve
any person from ?ne or imprisonment provided herein for Violation of any
provision of this article.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 12

Sec. 74-442. - Posting of signs.

Every retail tobacco dealer shall post a sign issued by the Department, indicating the offer
to sale, the sale or purchase of unstamped packs or loose cigarettes is unlawful. The Sign
shall be posted in a conspicuous location, to anyone purchasing cigarettes, at the retailer's
place of business.

Sec. 74-443. Wholesale tobacco dealer quarterly returns.

A sworn quarterly cigarette and/or other tobacco products Revenue Information return
shall be ?led by each wholesale tobacco dealer with the Department, on forms prescribed
by the Department. The return shall be ?led on or before the last day of the ?rst month
following the preceding quarter. Every wholesale tobacco dealer required to ?le a tax
return under this section, who does not ?le such tax return by its due date, or alternatively
does not provide all required information on such tax return, shall be subject to the
penalties that are provided for in Section 74?436 of this article in addition to all other
penalties and interest that may be due as provided in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.) Quarterly returns, books and records, papers
and original source documents that provide support for the information that is included in
the return ?led, with the Department, shall be kept for the period as provided in the Cook
County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34?60 et seq).

Sec. 74?444. - Failure to ?le a return and/0r pay remit tax.

In case of failure to ?le a tax return and pay remit this tax when due the Department may
assess penalties and interest as provided for in this article and/or the Cook County Uniform
Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).

Sec. 74-445. - Authority to sg?ale stamp; agents; credits/refunds.

Cigarette tax stamps. The Department shall contract for and furnish tax stamps of
such denominations and quantities as may be necessary for the payment of the tax imposed
on cigarettes by this article, and may, from time to time, provide for the issuance and
exclusive use of stamps of a new design and forbid the use of stamps of any other design.

Agents. The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers of cigarettes and any
other person within or without the County as agents to af?x stamps to be used in paying
the tax hereby imposed on cigarettes and said agent is hereby authorized to appoint other
persons in his employ who are to af?x said stamps to any cigarettes under his control in the
manner prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Department. Whenever
the Department shall sell, consign or deliver to any such agent any such stamps, such agent
shall be entitled to receive compensation for his services and expenses in af?xing such
stamps, and to retain use of the monies to be paid by him for such stamps as a commission.
The Department is hereby authorized to prescribe a schedule of commissions not
exceeding ?ve percent allowable to such agent for af?xing such stamps. Such schedule
shall be uniform for each type and denomination of stamp used and may be on a graduated
scale with respect to the number of stamps purchased. The Department may, in its
discretion, permit an agent to pay for such stamps within 30 days after the date of sale,
consignment, or delivery of such stamps to such agent, provided a bond or bank letter of

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012


credit satisfactory to the Department and approved as to form and legality by the State's
Attorney shall be submitted by said agent to the Department, in an amount equal to the
value of such stamps. The Department, with approval from the State?s Attorney, shall issue
regulations pursuant to Section 74-435 regarding the use of such bonds or bank letters of
credit.

(0) Credits or Refunds. The Department may redeem unused tax stamps lawfully on
the possession of any person. Any person seeking credit and/or a refund for
unused tax stamps, tax stamps af?xed to packages of cigarettes returned to a
manufacturer, or for the replacement of tax stamps, must ?le a claim in writing
on forms prescribed by the Department. This form must be ?led with the
department no later than 12 months after the month in which the tax remittance
or tax payment was made to the Department. The United States post mark date or
date of physical/actual receipt is used, by the Department, to determine if a credit
or refund is ?led timely. No person shall sell or offer for sale any stamp issued
under this article, except by written permission of the Department. The
Department may prescribe rules and regulations concerning refunds, sales of
stamps and redemption under the provisions of this article.

Sec. 74?446. - Single state and county stamp and tax return.

Single state and county stamp. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 74-
433(b), Section 74-435, and Subsection 74?445(a) of this article, the Department may
provide by regulation that the tax imposed by this article shall, in the alternative, be
collected by means of the issuance and sale of a single tax stamp to be prepared jointly
with the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the
City of Chicago) evidencing the payment of the tax imposed by this article. Toward that
end, the Department may make such arrangements and agreements with the Department of
Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) as
may be required with respect to the method of acquiring, af?xing, canceling and the
manner of sharing the cost of such joint single tax stamps, and may establish procedures
for payment of that portion of the tax revenue collected by the Department of Revenue of
the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) due and payable
to the County of Cook, in furtherance of the purposes of this article. In the event such
alternative method as herein provided is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax
may be used within the relevant jurisdiction; however, all other applicable provisions of
this article shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect.

tax return. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 
Section 74-435, Subsection 74-445(a) and subsection of this section, the
Department may provide by regulation that the tax imposed on cigarettes by this
article, in the alternative, shall be collected by means of the ?ling of a sworn tax
return to be prepared and ?led by every wholesale tobacco dealer who sells
cigarettes for consumption in the County of Cook. Said return shall be ?led on a
basis and shall contain the same information required by Subsection 74-
445(b) of this article. Said return shall be ?led with the Department on or before
the ?fteenth day of each month stating such other and further information as may
be required by the Department, and said return shall be accompanied by a
certi?ed check in the amount of the tax due and payable upon such taxable sales
made by said wholesale tobacco dealer in the County of Cook during the

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 14

preceding month. In the event such alternative method is utilized, no other
method of collecting said tax may be used; however, all other applicable
provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect with the exception
of the necessity of ?ling a quarterly tax return as provided in Section 74?443 of
this article, which shall not be required.

Sec. 74-447. - Rulemaking.

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, de?nitions, and regulations
necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such rules, de?nitions,
and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable procedures consistent with
existing practices of wholesale tobacco and retail tobacco dealers for collection and
remittance of the tax herein levied.

The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers and any other person within
or without the County of Cook as agents for the *tax herein levied. The Department is
hereby authorized to grant a commission not exceeding .0045 or .45 percent per cigarette
tax stamp sold by the County of Cook to such agent for services rendered in connection
with the tax herein levied in (Section 74-433), provided said tax is remitted, in full, by the
due date.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every wholesale tobacco dealer
doing business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed
by it, a sworn inventory of cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2006. With
said inventory, the wholesale tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the
taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with
respect to all stamped cigarettes which were in such wholesale tobacco dealer's possession
on March 1, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer doing
business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a
sworn inventory of cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2006. With said
inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due,
including any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all
cigarettes which were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on March I, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer
doing business in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms
prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of tobacco products in their possession or
control on June 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall pay
to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as
a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all tobacco products which
were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on June 1, 2006.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 15

Sec. 74-448. - Transmittal of excess tax collections.

In the event a person wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette
m_anufacturer_ collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this article, as amended,
which amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and said wholesale tobacco dealer,
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer person fails to return the said excess
amount to the purchaser who paid the tax, the said wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco
dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer person who collected the tax shall account for and
pay over all such excess amounts to the Department along with the tax properly collected.

Sec. 74-449. Deposit of tax proceeds.

All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this article, including penalties,
shall be paid to the Department. The Department shall direct every dollar collected from
the 2006 increase in the rate of the Home Rule Tobacco Tax to be deposited into the funds
of the Cook County Bureau of Health.

Sees. 74?4511. Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provision ofthis articie or whenever this article is
gitent, the provisions of the uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance, Article
Chapter 34 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances shall apply and supplement this
micle.

Secs. 74?451?74?469. - Reserved.
Effective Date: This Amendment shall be effective on passage.

Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims, moved to accept the Substitute Proposed
Ordinance Amendment to Communication No. 316772. The motion carried and the Proposed
Ordinance Amendment to the Tobacco Tax Amendment was further amended by Substitution, as

follows:

SUBSTITUTE FOR COMMUNICATION NO. 316772
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

Sponsored by

TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT AND JOHN P. DALEY AND JESUS GARCIA COOK
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

TOBACCO TAX AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74 Taxation, Article XI
Tobacco Tax, Sections 74-430 - 74-447 is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-430. - Short title.

This article may be cited as the "Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance".

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012


Sec. 74-431. - De?nitions.

For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or de?nitions are used herein,
they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section.

Altered or mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on which the identity information is illegible or
incomplete.

Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco (other
than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette as de?ned in this article).

Cigarette means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
whether such tobacco is ?avored, adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, or not, and the wrapper
of which is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.

Concealment means cigarettes, other tobacco products, or cigarette tax stamps, in violation of this article,
deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by or in the possession of a
wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible.

Consumer means a person who purchases cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products from a wholesale tobacco
dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer. and not for resale DUEDQES-

Counterfeit cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a false, forged, arti?cial or
imitation manufacturing label.

County means the County of Cook.

Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of Finance of the County of Cook.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Improperly stamped pack means, any packs of cigarettes on which is af?xed an altered/mutilated; used or
reused; or counterfeit tax stamp.

Large cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing tobacco and
weighing more than three pounds per thousand uni?ts.

Little cigar means any roll of tobacco, other than a cigarette, wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance
containing tobacco and not weighing more than three pounds per one thousand units.

Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed container, pack, or package as
provided by the manufacturer or as a result of any wholesale or retail tobacco dealer or person breaking or
otherwise opening any cigarette package to sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of
unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the minimum package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of
cigarettes that is smaller than the smallest package distributed by the manufacturer for individual

consumer use.

Loose little cigars mean little cigars that are not contained within a sealed container, pack or package as
provided by the manufacturer.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE16

Sec. 74?431. - De?nitions.

For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or de?nitions are used herein,
they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section.

Altered or mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on ?which the identity information is illegible or
incomplete.

Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco (other
than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette as de?ned in this article).

Cigarette means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
whether such tobacco is ?avored, adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, or not, and the wrapper
of which is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.

Concealment means cigarettes, other tobacco products, or cigarette tax stamps, in violation of this article,
deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by or in the possession of a
wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible.

Consmner means a person who purchases cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products from 
dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette man ufaciurer, andnot for 

Counterfeit cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a false, forged, arti?cial or
imitation manufacturing label.

County means the County of Cook.

Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of Finance of the County of Cook.

Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Improperly stamped pack means, any packs of cigarettes on which is af?xed an altered/mutilated; used or
reused; or counterfeit tax stamp.

Large cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing tobacco and
weighing more than three pounds per g_n_e thousand 

Little cigar means any roll of tobacco, other than a cigarette, wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance
containing tobacco and not weighing more than three pounds per one thousand units.

Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed container, pack, or package as
provided by the manufacturer or as a result of any wholesale or retail tobacco dealer or person breaking or
otherwise opening any cigarette package to sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of
unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the minimum package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of
cigarettes that is smaller than the smallest package distributed by the manufacturer for individual

consumer use.

Loose little cigars mean little cigars that are not contained within a sealed container, pack or package as
provided by the manufacturer.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 17

Manufacturer means any person, other than a Retail Cigarette Manufacturer, who makes or fabricates
cigarettes and/or tobacco products and sells them.

Other Tobacco p?roducts includes, but is not limited to, smokeless tobacco, smoking tobacco, large
cigars and little cigars, but does not include cigarettes.

Package means the original packet, box, tin or container whatsoever used to contain and to convey
cigarettes 91 other tobacco products to the consumer.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.

Pipe tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or labeling is
suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.

Premises means, but is not limited to, buildings, vehicles or any place where cigarette or Other Tobacco
Products inventory is possessed, stored or sold.

Purchaser means aLchr of cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products, including but no! li111i1cd to. retail
tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and/or consumer spend?user:

Retail cigarette manufacturer means any retail tobacco dealer who provides to consumers tobacco and

o__ther material and -- . . .
material?and equipment for the production and sale of cigarettes within the retailer??3 _cigarette

manufacturer?s premises s?(as?de?ned?herem) 1n Cook County.

Retail tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling cigarettes or other tobacco
products in the County of Cook to a consumer 
?eem. A rem'_tgb_accpilcg_lLshall not innings: _ar1y_p_ers?1 ?1133 licensed hi the S_t_nle_0f_l?inci5_as 
tobacco distributor or wholesaler.

 

 

Roll-your-own tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or
labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making
cigarettes or cigars or for use as wrappers of cigars or cigarettes.

Sale, resale, selling means any transfer of ownership or possession, or both, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a valuable consideration.

Smokeless tobacco includes any snuff, snus, chewing tobacco, or other tobacco products not intended to
be smoked.

Smoking tobacco includes granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other kinds and forms of
tobacco prepared in such manner as to be suitable for smoking in a pipe or cigarette.

Snujjr means any ?nely cut, ground or powered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.
Snus means any moist tobacco product that is not intended to be smoked,

Stamp means paper or other material with an imprint or decalcomania device thereon, of such size,
design, color and denominations as may be prescribed and procured by the Department which, when
af?xed to a package of cigarettes, shall evidence payment of the tax thereon, as provided by this article.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE18

Tobacco products includes, but is not limited to, any cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug
cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snug, snuff or snuff flour; Cavendish; plug and
twist tobacco; ?ne-cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweeping of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for
chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or both chewing and smoking; but does not include cigarettes
or tobacco purchased for the manufacture of cigarettes by cigarette wholesale tobacco dealers and
manufacturers as de?ned in this article.

Unit means any division of quantity that may be used as a standard to measure the quantity sold based on
length, width, weight such as pounds, ounces and/or grams or volume or some other similar unit of
measure, including but not limited to per item.

Unstamped pack means any pack of cigarettes on which a Cook County tax stamp is not af?xed.

Use means any exercise of a right or power, actual or constructive, and shall includebut is not limited to
the receipt, storage, or any keeping or retention for any length of time, but shall not include possession for
sale by a retail tobacco dealer, retail cigarette manufacturer or wholesale tobacco dealer as de?ned in this
article.

Used or reused tax stamp means any tax stamp previously af?xed to a tobacco product, removed and
subsequently af?xed to any tobacco product purchased, offered for sale or sold by any person, wholesale
or retail tobacco dealer; or any removed tax stamp purchased, offered for sale, sold by, or in the
possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Wholesale tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling or supplying
cigarettes and/or Other tIobacco pBroducts, who brings or causes to be brougm into the County of Cook
cigarettes, and/or Other Tobacco Products te?anprersen for sale or resale to retail tobacco dealers, retail
cigarette manufacturers, and/or cgnsumers in or outside the County of Cook. For the purposes of this
article, wholesale tobacco dealers also include ?rsons or businesses licensed as tobacco distributogrs,

cigarette distributors or wholesalers with the State of 
Sec. 74?432. - Registration of wholesale, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturer.

Wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers as de?ned in this
article, shall register with the Department in accordance with policies or procedures prescribed by the
Department.

Sec. 74-433. - Tax imposed; cigarettes, other tobacco products; collection; remittance.

Cigarette ax rate. A tax at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10 per cigarette is hereby imposed upon all
cigarettes possessed for sale and upon the use of all cigarettes within the County of Cook, the ultimate
incidence of and liability for payment of said tax to be borne by the consumer of said cigarettes. The tax
imposed hereby at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10 per cigarette shall become in force and effect on March 1,
2006. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Cigarette Tax stamp purchases. The tax imposed in this section shall be paid by purchase of tax
stamps from the Department, except as otherwise provided in Subsections 74-446(a) and of this
article. The Department shall only sell Cook County cigarette tax stamps to cigarette distributors who are
licensed with the State of Illinois. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer, before delivering
or causing to be delivered any cigarettes to a retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook to purchase from
the Department a tax stamp for each package of cigarettes and to cancel said stamps prior to the delivery
of such cigarettes to any retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook. Said stamps shall be af?xed and

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012


cancelled in the manner prescribed by rules and regulations of the Department.

(0) Retail cigarette manufacturer t? rate. A tax at the rate of $0.10 per cigarette is hereby imposed
upon each cigarette predueed sold by a retail cigarette manufacturer. The tax begin levied _shall be in
addition to any and all other taxes.

Other tobacco product tax rate. A tax at the rates speci?ed in this section is hereby imposed
upon the sale of all Other Tobacco Products within the County of Cook. the ultimate irgid?ce of and
liability for payment of said tax to be borne by the Consumer of said Other Tobacco tax
imposed hereby at the rates listed in subsection (1) shall come into force and effect on March 1: 2012 and
subsection (2) on January 1, 2013.

 

(1) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following products through
December 31, 2012:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.
b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.
0. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit 0r cigar.

(1. Large cigars: $0.25 per unit or cigar.

(2) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following products
effective January 1, 2013:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.
b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.
c. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

d. Large cigars: $0.30 per unit or cigar.

Floor Tax. Notwithstanding subsection ofthis Section. on or before March 20. 2012 and January
20. 2013. every retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette manufacturer doingbusiness in the County of
Cook shall file with the Department: on forms prescribed by the Department. a sworn inventory of Other
'l?obacco Products in their possession or control as of 1 1:59 pm. on February 29. 2012 and December 31.
2012 respitiygly?ith said inventory. every retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette manufacturensliaj
pay to the County tam-es at the rates set forth above on said inventory. including any additional 
as a result of this article. as amended.

(at) Wholesale Tobacco Dealer lbw, Retail Tobacco Dgaler and ?guil Cigarette liar
collection. Au. wholesale (Misru?lall collecme taneyied by this amigo 

Wham. sale of sairl _ci arettes andlor ?2t_her Tobacco Pmucts is and.
shall remit to the County pay the tax levied by this article. te?the

a?Any retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette manufacturer L32

shallrin?tu?a; collect the tax from the purehaser any Consumer to whom the sale of said cigarettes and/or
Other Tobacco. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 20

Anv such tax shall be collected as a trustee for and on

account of the Countv of Cook. Nothing; in this Article shall be construed to impose a tar-(Jinan the
occupation of wholesale tobacco dealen retail tobacco dealer. and retail cigarette manufacturer.

 

 

Other Tobacco Products ax Mitten?remittance. 



4. Eholosale Tobacco Dealers. lt shall be the dutv of every wholesale to remit the
tax due on the sales of Other Tobacco Products to retail tobacco dealers. retail cigarw
manufacturers Countv on forms prescribed by the Department, on or
before the day of the month following the month in which the sale_s__of Other Tobacco
Products occurred.

 

5. Retail Cigarette_ Manufacturers. It shall be the duty of everv retail cigarette manufacturer to
remit the tax due on cigarettes produced and sold on the premises, on forms prescribed bv the
Department, on or before the 20'? day of the month following the month in which the cigarette
sales occurred. 

6. Retail tobacco dealers and for retail cigarette manufacturers untaxed Other Tobacco Products.
It shall be the duty of everv retail tobacco dealer andr?or retail cigarette manufacturer that
purchases or acquires Other Tobacco Products on which the tax set forth in this Article on Other
Tobacco Products has not been paid. to remit the tax due, on fonns prescribed by the DBD?l?il??g?Ltl
on or before the 206' dav follow?a the month in which the Other Tobacco Precincts for which
taxes were not paid 
maau?aeturer were sold in Cook ggoung to a consumer.

Tax included in sales price. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for a wholesale tobacco
dealer; retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer to fail to include the tax imposed in this

article in the sale price of cigarettes and other tobacco products to otherwise absorb such tax. The tax
levied in this article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

(1) Tax debt owed to County. The tax required in this article to be remitted to the County collected?by

aetiele shall constitute a debt owed by sueh wholesale tobacco dealer or retail tobacco dealer or retail
gigarctte manulactnrer 


Sec. 74-434. - Tax free sales.

 

Wholesale tobacco dealers doing business in Cook County shall not pay or collect a tax with respect to
cigarettes and/or other tobacco products which are otherwise subject to the tax when the cigarettes and/or

other tobacco products are being sold to the following:

Another wholesale tobacco dealer holding a valid Cook County tobacco wholesaler?s
registration certi?cate; arid?o_r

A wholesale tobacco dealer or a retail tobacco dealer in?t-he?eveatgwhen the selling wholesale

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE21

tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the cigarettes or other tobacco products to a location outside of
Cook County.

[rm?f 91 henchmen .Ei . Lazar!

SQ long as the sale occurs outside of Cook Coung. 

Sec. 74?435. - Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties.

 

 

It shall be a violation of this article to engage in the sale, possession, or use of any cigarettes and/or
other tobacco products subject to any tax provided by this article upon which said tax has not been paid or
the stamps af?xed and cancelled as herein required, including, as described in this article:

(I) Counterfeit cigarettes or counterfeit other tobacco products.
(2) Counterfeit tax stamps.

(3) Improperly stamped packs.

(4) Unstamped packs.

It shall be a violation of this article for any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer, or retail
cigarette manufacturer to engage in any of the following:

(1) Utilization of used or reused tax stamps by possessing or offering for sale or resale packs of
cigarettes af?xed with a used or reused tax stamp.

(2) Concealment, as described in this article.

(3) Sell or distribute loose cigarettes. eHittle?eigars.

(4) Sell cigarettes to any person, other than to another registered Cook County wholesale tobacco
dealer, unless each package bears an un-mutilated Cook County tax stamp af?xed, or where the
selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the unstamped cigarettes to a location outside
Cook County.

(5) Hinder or prevent an authorized Department representative from performing an inspection or
audit.

(0) Prima facie presumption. The sale, resale or possession by a wholesale tobacco dealer or retail
tobacco dealer of altered/mutilated, counterfeit, used or reused tax stamps; or packs of counterfeit,
improperly stamped, unstamped cigarettes or loose cigarettes; and the sale or resale mesa-ea, by a
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer, of Other Tobacco Products on whi_e_h the tax

 

tobacco dealer or retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer is in violation of the provisions of
this article. Retail tobacco dealers er and retail eigaretie?ia?faeturers shall he held strictly liable for
vigl?tigns of this ordinance that eceu,r_1v_ithirt their llrelnisesras?Qe?iaeel?hereim regardless of the
employment status of the actual Violator.

 

 

Cigarette pack, tax stamp, loose cigarettes aneH?ittlee-igars, other tobacco products and hindrance
violation penalties.

 

I Violation Type I

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 22

Penalties

Amount 

Concealment

Offense $2,000.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00

Counterfeit packs of cigarettes

40 or less 2,000.00

41 or more, per pack 50.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00

Cottittetjeit tax stamps

40 or less 2,000.00

41 or more, per stamp 50.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00

packs

40 or less 2,000.00

41 or more, per pack 50.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2000.00

Loose cigarettes anai?iittie?eigats

40 or less 1,000.00

40 or more, per cigarette 25.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00

Other tobacco products

offense 1,000.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00

Sales to unregistered wholesalers

1st offense 2,000.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00

Unstamped packs

40 packs or less 1,000.00

41 packs or more, per pack 25.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00

Utilization of used or reused tax 

40 or less packs or stamps 2,000.00

41 or more packs or stamps, per pack or stamp 50.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00

Hinder inspection or audit

offense 1,000.00

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 2,000.00

 

 

Sec. 74-436. - Other violation penalties.

 

Any person determined to have violated this article, as amended, excluding the violations described
in Section 74-435 (Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties), shall be subject to a ?ne
in the amount of $1,000.00 for the ?rst offense, and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each
subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which
said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after noti?cation
thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for any person to knowingly furnish false or

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 23

inaccurate information to the Department.

Criminal penalties. Every person who shall falsely make, alter, forge or counterfeit any tax stamp,
or who, with intent to defraud the County, shall af?x or cause to be af?xed any counterfeit or altered
stamp to any package of cigarettes, knowing said stamp to be counterfeit or altered, shall be guilty of a
Class misdemeanor, in addition to any other criminal penalties which may be applicable under Illinois
or Federal law.

(0) Criminal prosecution. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no way bar the right of
the County to institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing
as well as costs incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-437. - Internet, mail order and outside-of-county purchasesQWQWumdm?h?akpmi??wwm?e?hwn??m

1a} Cigarettes. With respect to cigarettes purchased over the internet, by mail order
or outside the County, if the tax on cigarettes which Is imposed pursuant to
this article, as amended, has not been paid by a wholesaler or retailer prior to use or possession of the
cigarette by a person within the County of Cook, such person shall be obligated to
make payment of the tax directly to the Department. Within 30 days of purchase, such person shall ?le a
return with the Department of Revenue and pay the tax, penalties and interest due under this article, as
amended.

 

 
   
 

 

 

revmusly by" l?ob?aC?_co
denier _retaiL to_hac_co_dcal_c1_or prior to the sale of the other tobacco nr;od__11c_t__s
to_ the consumer 1 iiliin the Count C_oo_k, be _ohIi 11191110 [e111it the 1311i due to 

 

 

Qmmy, _en the D_pa_1111 en 0_n_0.r_ 

an sgeh otire?obaeco rod-11ers_vyerepiirehasetl by _111e_consumer.

       

 

 

Sec. 74-438. - Mutilation of tax stamps.

It is unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax stamp herein required on any package of cigarettes before it
is sold by a retail tobacco dealer.

Sec. 74-439. - Books and records to be kept.

Wholesale tobacco dealer records of deliveries. At the time of delivering cigarettes or Other
Tobacco Products to any person doing business in the County of Cook, it shall be the duty of every
wholesale tobacco dealer to make a true triplicate invoice, numbered serially, showing the date of
delivery, the number of packages, the number of cigarettes contained therein in each shipment of
cigarettes delivered, or amount of Other Tobacco Products delivered, and the name of the purchaser to
whom delivery is made. The wholesaler tobacco dealer shall issue one copy of the invoice to the
purchaser, and shall retain one legible copy of the same for the use and inspection of the Department for

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE24

the period of time as provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedure
Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).

Wholesaler and Retailer inventory purchases," sales; reconciliations. It shall be the duty of every
wholesale tobacco dealer and retail tobacco dealer to make or maintain cigarette and/or Other Tobacco
Products inventory:

(1) Purchase order documents, serially numbered, indicating the date; name, address of the person
or business from whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products were purchased; brand name, type
and total number of packages to be purchased, in sequential date order. 

(2) Delivery or receipt documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address of the
person or business to whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products were delivered; brand name,
type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date order.

(3) Wholesale tobacco dealer sales documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name,
address of the person or business to whom the cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products were sold;
brand name, type and total number of packs delivered, in sequential date order.

(4) Retail tobacco dealer sales documents, indicating in sequential date order, brand name, type
and total number of packs or amounts of Other Tobacco Products sold, each day.

(5) Retail tobacco dealer cigarette inventory reconciliation, indicating daily, weekly or 
beginning inventory, purchases, sales and ending inventory, in sequential date order. 

(6) Retail tobacco dealer wholesaler list, indicating the name and address of each
wholesaler from whom cigarette or Other Tobacco Products inventory was purchased; brand name;
type and total number of packs purchased from each wholesaler.

Taxable and nontaxable transaction books and records. It shall be the duty of all wholesale tobacco
dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and persons required by this article to collect
and/or to pay the taxes herein imposed to keep and maintain all books, papers and records related to all
transactions taxable and nontaxable under this article and to make such records available to the Director
or a duly authorized representative who has been appointed, by the Director, on request for inspection,
audit and/or copying during regular business hours. The Department shall promulgate rules and
regulations specifying the records that shall be kept by wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers,
retail cigarette manufacturers and persons required by this article to collect and or/pay the taxes herein
imposed, and may prescribe any forms appropriate in furtherance of this article. Books, papers and
records which relate to a return ?led or required to be ?led with the Department shall be kept for the
period as provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section
34-60 et seq.). The burden shall be on the wholesale tobacco dealers. retail tobacco dealers and retail

cigarette manufacturers tax?eelleetenand?teaepayer to keep records which verify the basis for any and all
transactions which are claimed to be exempt from taxation pursuant to Section 74-434 of this article.

 

 

 

Sec. 74-440. Inspections; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with Section 74-439 of this article shall be made available to the
Department upon request for inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours.
Representatives of the Department shall be permitted to inspect or audit cigarette or Other Tobacco
Products inventory in or upon any premises. An audit or inspection may include the physical examination
of the cigarettes, packaging,?orthe cigarette tax stamps or Other Tobacco Products. It shall be unlawful
for any person to prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing the

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 25

enforcement duties provided in this article.
Sec. 74-441. Con?scate; seize; redemption penalty.

(3) Con?scation; seizure. Whenever the Department or any of its duly authorized representatives shall
discover any cigarettes and/or other tobacco products subject to any tax provided by this article upon
which said tax has not been paid or the stamps af?xed and cancelled as herein required, they are hereby
authorized and empowered forthwith to con?scate; seize and take possession of such cigarettes and/or
other tobacco products together with any vending machine; receptacle; container; vessel or holder in
which they are held for sale except for money contained in such vending machine or receptacle, shall
thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.

Cigarette redemption penalty. The Department Shall either destroy the cigarettes seized or may
permit the Wholesale Tobacco Dealer from whom the said cigarettes were seized, to redeem the cigarettes
and/or any vending machine or receptacle seized therewith, by the payment of a Redemption Penalty
equal to 100 percent of the tax due, and including the cost incurred in such proceeding. Such seizure,
destruction, and sale, or redemption shall not be deemed to relieve any person from fine or imprisonment
provided herein for violation of any provision of this article.

Sec. 74-442. - Posting of signs.

Every retail tobacco dealer shall post a sign issued by the'Department, indicating the offer to sale, the sale
or purchase of unstamped packs or loose cigarettes is unlawful. The sign shall be posted in a conspicuous
location, to anyone purchasing cigarettes, at the retailer's place of business.

Sec. 74-443. - Wholesale tobacco dealer quarterly returns.

A sworn quarterly cigarette and/or other tobacco products Revenue Information return shall be ?led by
each wholesale tobacco dealer with the Department, on forms prescribed by the Department. The return
shall be ?led on or before the last day of the ?rst month following the preceding quarter. Every wholesale
tobacco dealer required to ?le a tax return under this section, who does not ?le such tax return by its due
date, or alternatively does not provide all required information on such tax return, shall be subject to the
penalties that are provided for in Section 74-436 of this article in addition to all other penalties and
interest that may be due as provided in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section
34?60 et seq). Quarterly returns, books and records, papers and original source documents that provide
support for the information that is included in the return ?led, with the Department, shall be kept for the
period as provided in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section
34-60 et seq).

Sec. 74-444. - Failure to ?le a return and/or pay ?rm?it tax.

In case of failure to ?le a tax return and pay remit this tax when due the Department may assess penalties
and interest as provided for in this article and/or the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq).

Sec. 74-445. - Authority to se_ll_ale stamp; agents; credits/refunds.

Cigarette tax stamps. The Department shall contract for and furnish tax stamps of such
denominations and quantities as may be necessary for the payment of the tax imposed on cigarettes by
this article, and may, from time to time, provide for the issuance and exclusive use of stamps of a new
design and forbid the use of stamps of any other design.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE26

Agents. The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers of cigarettes and any other person
Within or without the County as agents to af?x stamps to be used in paying the tax hereby imposed on
cigarettes and said agent is hereby authorized to appoint other persons in his employ who are to af?x said
stamps to any cigarettes under his control in the manner prescribed by the rules and regulations
promulgated by the Department. Whenever the Department shall sell, consign or deliver to any such agent
any such stamps, such agent shall be entitled to receive compensation for his services and expenses in
af?xing such stamps, and to retain use of the monies to be paid by him for such stamps as a commission.
The Department is hereby authorized to prescribe a schedule of commissions not exceeding ?ve percent
allowable to such agent for af?xing such stamps. Such schedule shall be uniform for each type and
denomination of stamp used and may be on a graduated scale with respect to the number of stamps
purchased. The Department may, in its discretion, permit an agent to pay for such stamps within 30 days
after the date of sale, consignment, or delivery of such stamps to such agent, provided a bond or bank
letter of credit satisfactory to the Department and approved as to form and legality by the State's Attorney
shall be submitted by said agent to the Department, in an amount equal to the value of such stamps. The
Department, with approval from the State's Attorney, shall issue regulations pursuant to Section 74?435
regarding the use of such bonds or bank letters of credit.

Credits or Refunds. The Department may redeem unused tax stamps lawfully on the possession of
any person. Any person seeking credit and/or a refund for unused tax stamps, tax stamps af?xed to
packages of cigarettes returned to a manufacturer, or for the replacement of tax stamps, must ?le a claim
in writing on forms prescribed by the Department. This form must be ?led with the department no later
than 12 months after the month in which the tax remittance or tax payment was made to the Department.
The United States post mark date or date of physical/actual receipt is used, by the Department, to
determine if a credit or refund is ?led timely. No person shall sell or offer for sale any stamp issued under
this article, except by written permission of the Department. The Department may prescribe rules and
regulations concerning refunds, sales of stamps and redemption under the provisions of this article.

Sec. 74-446. - Single state and county stamp and tax return.

Single state and county stamp. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection Section 74-
43 S, and Subsection 74?445(a) of this article, the Department may provide by regulation that the tax
imposed by this article shall, in the alternative, be collected by means of the issuance and sale of a single
tax stamp to be prepared jointly with the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City
Comptroller of the City of Chicago) evidencing the payment of the tax imposed by this article. Toward
that end, the Department may make such arrangements and agreements with the Department of Revenue
of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) as may be required with
respect to the method of acquiring, af?xing, canceling and the manner of sharing the cost of such joint
single tax stamps, and may establish procedures for payment of that portion of the tax revenue collected
by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago)
due and payable to the County of Cook, in furtherance of the purposes of this article. In the event such
alternative method as herein provided is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax may be used
within the relevant jurisdiction; however, all other applicable provisions of this article shall nevertheless

remain in full force and effect.

tax return. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection Section 74-435,
Subsection 74-445(a) and subsection of this section, the Department may provide by regulation that
the tax imposed on cigarettes by this article, in the alternative, shall be collected by means of the ?ling of
a sworn tax return to be prepared and ?led by every wholesale tobacco dealer who sells cigarettes for
consumption in the County of Cook. Said return shall be ?led on a basis and shall contain the
same information required by Subsection 74?445(b) of this article. Said return shall be ?led with the

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE27

Department on or before the ?fteenth day of each month stating such other and further information as
may be required by the Department, and said return shall be accompanied by a certi?ed check in the
amount of the tax due and payable upon such taxable sales made by said wholesale tobacco dealer in the
County of Cook during the preceding month. In the event such alternative method is utilized, no other
method of collecting said tax may be used; however, all other applicable provisions of this article shall
remain in full force and effect with the exception of the necessity of ?ling a quarterly tax return as
provided in Section 74-443 of this article, which shall not be required.

Sec. 74?447. - Rulemaking.

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, de?nitions, and regulations necessary to carry out
the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such rules, de?nitions, and regulations shall include, but not be
limited to, reasonable procedures consistent with existing practices of wholesale tobacco and retail
tobacco dealers for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied.

The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers and any other person within or without the
County of Cook as agents for the tax herein levied. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a
commission not exceeding .0045 or .45 percent per cigarette tax stamp sold by the County of Cook to
such agent for services rendered in connection with the tax herein levied in (Section 74-43 3), provided
said tax is remitted, in full, by the due date.

(0) Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every wholesale tobacco dealer doing business
in the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of
cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2006. With said inventory, the wholesale tobacco
dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result
of this article, as amended, with respect to all stamped cigarettes which were in such wholesale tobacco
dealer?s possession on March 1, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer doing business in
the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of
cigarettes in their possession or control on March 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer
shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result of this
article, as amended, with respect to all cigarettes which were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on
March 1, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail tobacco dealer doing business in
the County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of
tobacco products in their possession or control on June 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco
dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result
of this article, as amended, with respect to all tobacco products which were in such retail tobacco dealer's
possession on June 1, 2006.

Sec. 74?448. - Transmittal of excess tax collections.

In the event a person wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer
collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by this article, as amended, which amount is purported to
be a collection thereof, and said wholesale retail cigarette
manufacturer person fails to return the said excess amount to the purchaser who paid the tax, the said
retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer person who collected the
tax shall account for and pay over all such excess amounts to the Department along with the tax properly
collected.

 

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 28

Sec. 74-449. - Deposit of tax proceeds.

All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this article, including penalties, shall be paid
to the Department. The Department shall direct every dollar collected from the 2006 increase in the rate
of the Home Rule Tobacco Tax to be deposited into the funds of the Cook County Bureau of Health.

Secs. 74-450. Application of uniform penalties. interest and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provision of this article or whenever this article is silent. the
provisions of the uniform penalties. interest and procedures ordinance, Article Chapter 3-1 ofthe Cook
County Code of Ordinances shall apply and supplement this article.

Secs. 74-451??74?469. - Reserved.

Effective Date: This Amendment shall be effective on passage.

Chairman Daley asked Laura Lechowicz-Felicione, Special Legal Counsel, of?ce of the President, to
address the Committee regarding the substitute amendment.

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione informed the Committee that she had an opportunity to talk to many of the
Commissioners or their staff members regarding the amendment to the Tobacco Ordinance that was
submitted on the February 15, 2012 board agenda, as well as the substitute that was circulated on
February 28, 2012. The Commissioners have the of?cial substitute that was distributed by the Secretary
to the Board prior to the meeting today. She further stated that the purpose of the amendments are to
clarify how the tobacco tax rate is applied on other tobacco products. No amendment presented today
alters the amount, rate, or percentage of the tax that was enacted by the County Board on November 15,
2011. The substitute amendment is intended to clarify that the tax liability is imposed upon the consumer
and not the retail dealers or the wholesale dealers. It also clari?es what party is to collect the tax and
remit it to Cook County, and it further clari?es What parties are responsible to remit the ?oor tax to Cook
County. The substitute also addresses an issue regarding the wholesale tobacco dealers and the fact that
licensed tobacco distributors qualify as wholesale tobacco dealers. The State would not be responsible for
remitting the ?oor tax.

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
John Coakley, Manager, Guess Hookah
Jordan Hirsh, Owner, Cigar King

Mike Gold, President, Arango Cigar Co.

ewwe

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE 29

Chairman Daley stated that the letters received from John Kelly of Strictly Men Tobacco and Joel Africk
of Respiratory Health Association will be made part of the record.

Chairman Daley informed the Committee that there was another proposed amendment to the substitute for
Communication No. 316772 that had been distributed.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to further amend the
substitute for Communication No. 316772, as follows: On a voice vote, the motion carried.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE SUBSTITUTE FOR COMMUNICATION NO. 316772
Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN AND JEFFREY TOBOLSKI, COOK COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74, Taxation, Article XI
Tobacco Tax, Section 74-433(e) of the Substitute for Communication No. 316772 is hereby amended as
follows:

WW?Wimm?wmmi

 

 

 

 

 




Commissioner Reyes, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved to Approve the Proposed
Amendment to Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 316772), as Substituted
and Amended. Chairman Daley called for a roll call vote on the motion, the votes of yeas and nays
being as follows:

Roll Call On Motion To Approve
Communication No. 316772 As Substituted and Amended

Yeas: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Reyes, Steele and Suffredin (9)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri and
Tobolski (7)
Absent: Commissioner Collins (1)

The motion carried, and the Proposed Amendment to Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance
(Communication No. 316772), as Substituted and Amended, was Approved and Adopted.

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 29, 2012
PAGE30

Commissioner Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Vice Chairman Sims. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR CONIMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 316772 Approved As Amended

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance Committee

win Daley, C. hainniui

Attest:



thewB DeLeon, Secretary

The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

           

 

RESPIRATORY HEALTH 

of Metropolitan Chicago
Dedicated to Community Lung Health Since 7906

1440 West Washington Boulevard
Chicago. Illinois E50807
[312] 243-2000


 

 

Ba rry Levensta m. Esq.
Board Chair

Bradley D. Murlick
Vice Chair

Steven L. Victor
Treasurer

David El. Yelin. Esq.
Secretary

Juan D. Boomsma, MD. MBA
Pest Board Chair

Joel .J. Africk
President and
Chief Executive Of?cer

Formerly known as:

American Lung Association of
Metropolitan Chicago"

[1983?2007]

Chicago Lung Association
[1972 ?l 9513]

Tuberculosis Institute of Ghioag0
and Cook County
[1937-4 972}

Chicago Tuberculosis Institute
[1908 837]

*RBSpiratory Health Association
of. Metropolitan Chicago is not
af?liated with American Lung
Association.

 

 
 

February 14, 2012

Honorable Toni Preckwinkle
President 

Cook County Board

118 N. Clark Street Room 537
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear President Preckwinkle,

We are encouraged that Cook County is taking the necessary steps to keep the new
tobacco tax amendment in place to tax other tobacco products.

Teen use of ?other tobacco products? such as cigars, chewing tobacco and roll your own
tobacco has been on the rise, and many young people start using these items as a way
to transition into smoking. One of the few proven ways to reduce teen consumption of
other tobacco products, like cigarettes, is to raise the price?-fortunately, young people
are extremely price averse in their smoking habits. Studies show that for every 10
percent increase in the cost of cigarettes, tcen smoking is reduced by 7 percent, and we
expect similar results in non?cigarette products. That means the County1 5 new tax on
other tobacco products is stopping young people from ever starting to smoke!

In Cook County, we need to leverage every tool we can to eradicate tobacco use. That
is exactly what you? and the County Board are doing with the new tax on other tobacco
products. You deserve high praise for ensuring this ordinance is upheld in court.

Respiratory Health Association of Metropolitan Chicago is committed to reducing the
toll of tobacco on our communities. We pursue a tobacco control agenda that aims to
give smokers the tools they need to quit, decrease everyone?s exposure to secondhand
smoke and prevent young people from taking up this deadly addiction. Serving the
Chicago area for over 100 years, the mission of RH-AMC is to promote healthy lungs
and ?ght lung disease through research, advocacy and education.

Sincerely,

 

 
 

.loe J. Africk
Pro 'ident and Chief Executive Of?cer




. .From: John Kelly
Strictly Men Tobacco
13 River Oaks dr.
Calumet City, IL 60409

Re: Cook County Tobacco- Tax
February 21, 2012
Dear Cook County Board Member,

Please ?nd enclosed a break down showing the impact ofthe- cigartax on the sale price. ofa box of
cigars. have included a copy ofan invoice showing my cost and. a couple of listings showing internet
pricing. As you can see my cyber and catalog competition can sell their product at prices below what I
can sell without pro?t. With governments expressing concern over unfair pricing for global business, 1
ca n?t help but wonder why there is no consideration for the same inequities in the domestic markets.

Since the late 90?s my business is down 70%. ifthis tax is. put into effect i cannot see how there will be
any business left. Your expectation of additional revenue will oniy result in lost sales tax as more cigar
smokers purchase their product out of state. Unlike cigarette smokers, cigar smokers are not addicted or
impulse smokers. They will and do price shop and maintain a personal inventory.'l'hey are very cost

concise.

I understand the desperate situation and need for additional funding. Please understand that you do
not act in a vacuum. Our products have already been impacted by the Federai tax, the USDA tax
and the State DTP Tax.

If- you know or have the ear of any state legislators, you could also do me a. favor. My proposal is that
the State eliminates the OTP tax. Couple that with legislation to restrict the mailing ottobacco products
into the State. The elimination of the OTP now'motiyates a consumer to purchase from ?brick and
mortar" because the retailer can make whatever adjustments are necessary to compete with out of
state sales, the only variable now being the sales tax. My business will now go up 300%. to 400% and
that means additional sales tax revenues. An additional: benefit is Illinois money now stays in Illinois. I
have, sent this suggestion to some in Springfield without success. Given the fact that this loss of business
impacts your sales tax revenues, i hope that you might convince them to adjust their policy.

in short, as a business, i need my government to be allies, not adversaries.

Respectfully

