APRIL 9, 2001
NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations Committee of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Wednesday, April 11, 2001 at the hour of 2:30
PM in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,
Illinois to consider the following:
242707

SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY, Michael F. Sheahan, transmitting a Communication,
dated March 27, 2001:
Re: Appointment to the Cook County Emergency Telephone System Board
respectfully requesting that Director JOHN KOZARITZ replace Deputy Chief
Lombardo as a member of the Cook County Emergency Telephone System Board
(ETSB). Submitted is a brief description of Director Kozaritz’s credentials. Director
Kozaritz has a long history of Law Enforcement, and currently is the Director of the
Sheriff’s Communication Center. I believe he will make a valuable contribution as a
Board Member.
According to the by-laws of the ETSB, the Cook County Board of Commissioners must
approve all appointments to the Board. Please accept this letter as a formal
nomination of Director Kozaritz to the Board.
Your consideration in this matter is greatly appreciated.
Referred to the Committee on Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations on
4/4/2001.

242708

SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY, Michael F. Sheahan, transmitting a Communication,
dated March 27, 2001:
Re: Appointment to the Cook County Emergency Telephone System Board filling
position vacated by James McGin McGing

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE NOTICE
APRIL 9, 2001
PAGE 2
respectfully requesting that First Deputy Chief JAMES E. MALINOWSKI be appointed
as a member of the Cook County Emergency Telephone System Board (ETSB).
James E. Malinowski has a long history of Law Enforcement, and currently is the First
Deputy Chief of Police for the Sheriff’s Police Department. I believe he will make a
valuable contribution as a Board Member.
According to the by-laws of the ETSB, the Cook County Board of Commissioners must
approve all appointments to the Board. Please accept this letter as formal nomination
of First Deputy Chief James E. Malinowski to the Board.
Your consideration in this matter is greatly appreciated.
Referred to the Committee on Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations, as
amended, on 4/4/2001.
242723

RESOLUTION SUPPORTING HOUSE BILL 2392 (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Mike Quigley, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, many residential areas of Cook County are rapidly developing, as
evidenced by the recent construction of many new property developments,
condominium units and subdivisions throughout the County; and
WHEREAS, under current state law, a grantor may transfer ownership of a new
residential parcel to a grantee without providing a property index number (PIN) and in
fact, many of these newly built or newly divided properties are sold prior to assignment
of proper property index numbers by the Cook County Assessor; and
WHEREAS, the sale of parcels that have not yet been divided by the Cook County
Assessor's Office leads to imprecise billing of individual property owners, which can
result in overpayments, underpayments and penalties, creating confusion and
frustration on the part of these new homeowners; and
WHEREAS, the resulting confusion and frustration of these homeowners severely
strains the resources of the Cook County Assessor's Office and the Cook County
Commissioners; and
WHEREAS, State Representatives Judy Erwin, Jim Brosnahan, Sara Feigenholtz,
Julie Hamos and the State Senator Christine Radogno have sponsored House Bill
2392, a bill only affecting Cook County, which would require a grantor of property to
provide the grantee with an individual permanent index number that specifically
represents that parcel of property which that grantee has purchased; and
WHEREAS, House Bill 2392 also provides that if the permanent index number does
not represent the legal description of the property, the grantor may supply proof that
he or she either filed an application for division of the property with the Cook County
Assessor's Office, recorded a plat of subdivision, or recorded a condominium
declaration; and

 LEGISLATION & INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE NOTICE
APRIL 9, 2001
PAGE 3

WHEREAS, a grantor's failure to meet these requirements will not invalidate the
transaction, but will render a grantor personally liable to grantee for any taxes and
attorney's fees that may be incurred until the requirements are met; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Assessor's Office and the
Cook County Board of Commissioners support this legislation, recently passed
unanimously by the House Judiciary I Committee.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby urge the Illinois State Legislature to support this effort to facilitate the payment
of accurate property taxes by residential property owners in Cook County; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of
this Honorable Body, and a suitable copy of same be provided to the Illinois State
Legislature.
Referred to the Committee on Legislation & Intergovernmental Relations on
4/4/2001

Item #4

Status of Illinois General Assembly legislation affecting Cook County.

____________________________
Sandra K. Williams, Secretary
Secretary

Committee Members:
Chairman:
Hansen
Vice-Chairman: Lechowicz
Members:
Collins, Daley, Moran, Schumann, Silvestri, Sims, Sutker

 