Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila,
Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia
M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of Finance
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner Patrick D.Thompson, President Kathleen
Therese Meany
Thursday, July 10, 2014

10:00 AM

Board Room

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

Call Meeting to Order
President Kathleen Therese Meany presiding, called the meeting to order at 10:00
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; and
Kathleen Therese Meany

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

14-0728

Meeting Minutes

July 10, 2014

Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will hold a public hearing at 10:00 a.m. on
the 10th day of July 2014 in the Board Room in the Administrative Offices of
the District, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois. The purpose of the hearing
will be to receive public comments on the Amendments to the Cook County
Stormwater Management Plan to be consistent with the Stormwater
Management Act as amended by the Illinois General Assembly on June 18,
2014. On June 18, 2014, Governor Pat Quinn signed HB 3912 into law,
becoming Public Act 98-0652 (P.A. 98-0652), which amends the District’s
statutory authority to allow for acquisition of flood-prone properties and to plan,
implement, finance, and operate local stormwater management projects.
Accordingly, it is necessary to amend the Cook County Stormwater
Management Plan (CCSMP) to be consistent with P.A. 98-0652. Revisions to
the CCSMP have been prepared and provided to the public for its review. The
amendments to the CCSMP include updated minimum requirements for both
regional and local projects, and clarification on the types of projects that will be
considered for implementation and assistance by the District.
By order of Kathleen Therese Meany, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago
Dated the 1st of July 2014
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Cynthia M.
Santos, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Open Discussion
David St. Pierre, Executive Director, asked the Board of Commissioners and members
of the public if they had any questions.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Debra Shore, that this
Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes-No nays
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this July 10, 2014 are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
July 10, 2014

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

July 10, 2014

 