REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION
AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS

July 24, 2012

The Honorable,

The Board ofCommissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman,
Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (14)

Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Collins and Reyes (3)

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, July 24, 2012 at the hour of 9:50 AM. in the Board
Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

3 8086

AN ORDINANCE AMENDMENT TO PART 1, CHAPTER 2, ARTICLE VII, DIVISION
2, SUBDIVISION I, SECTIONS 2-560 THROUGH 2-562 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni
Preckwinkle, President, William M. Beavers, Jerry Butl?, John P. Daley, Bridget Gainer,
Jesus G. Garcia,?and Elizabeth ?Liz? Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Joan Patricia Murphv,
Timothy 0. Schneider. Peter N. Silvestri. Deborah Sims, Robert?. Steele. Larry Sut?fredin

and Jeffry R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.

 

 

 

 

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

 

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County that Part 1, Chapter 2, Article VII, Division 2, Subdivision 1, Sections 2-560 through
2-562 shall be amended as follows:

Sec. 2?560. Short title.

This division shall be known and may be cited as the ?Cook County Ethics
Ordinance."

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGEZ

Sec. 2-561. De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:

Absolutely necessary means that another means of identification, such as employee
identification number, cannot be substituted for the social security number without
frustrating the purpose of the request.

Agency means the County Board, any committee or other subdivision thereof, any
County department or other administrative unit, commission, board or other division of the
government of the County.

Board or Cmnmissnm Apminlee means all individuals appointed bv the President
touanv Boards or Commissions created by State Statute or County Ordinance that require the

 

 

appreyal, confirmation or advice and consent of t_he_ Cognty Beam,

 

Board or Commission means_any Beard or Commission created under Countv

 

 

Ordinatmaur Starte?lalmv members are by .1.le 

 

approval. confirmation or advice and__consent of the Countv Board.

 

 

Beard?er?Board OfEllvics means the County Board of Ethics, as defined in Section
2?59] .

Campaign far elective office means any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual to any
Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political organization, or the selection,
nomination, or election of Presidential or Vice-Presidential electors, but does not include

activities:
(1) Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action;
(2) Relating to collective bargaining; or
(3) That is otherwise in furtherance ofthe person's official duties.

Candidate means any person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy in
nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at either a general primary
election or general election or who has raised or expended money in pursuit of elected
office.

Collective bargaining has the same meaning as that term is defined in Section 3 of
the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 3

Compensated time means any time worked by or credited to an employee that
counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as a condition of employment
but does not include any designated holidays or any period when the employee is on a leave
ofabsence.

)tnpensatt'on means money, thing of value or other pecuniary benefit received or
to be received in return for, or as reimbursement for, services rendered or to be rendered.

Compensatory time of means authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum
work time required ofthat employee as a condition of employment.

Contract management authority means personal involvement in or direct
supervisory responsibility for the formation or execution of a County contract, including
without limitation the preparation of specifications, evaluation of bids or proposals,
negotiation of contract terms or supervision of performance.

Contribution has the same meaning as that term is de?ned in Section 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS S/9-l .4).

County means the County and all government agencies ofthe County.

Economic interest means any interest valued or capable of valuation in monetary
terms; provided that economic interest is subject to the same exclusion as ?nancial interest.

Employee means an individual employed by the County whether part-time or full-
time or by a contract of employment. The term "employee? shall include individuals
employed by County Of?cers as referenced in Article VII, Section 4 of the Illinois
Constitution. The term ?employee" shall not includejudges of election.

Financial interest means any of the following:

(1) Any interest as a result of which the owner currently received or is entitled
to receive in the future more than $2,500.00 per year.

(2) Any interest with a cost or present value of $5,000.00 or more.

(3) Any interest representing more than ten percent of a corporation,
partnership, sole proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, organization,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, or any legal
entity organized for pro?t; provided, however, the term inancial interest"
shall not include any ofthe following:

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGE4

a. Any ownership through purchase at fair market value of inheritance
of less than one percent of the shares of a corporation, or any value of or
dividends of such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities
exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.)

b. The authorized compensation paid to an official or employee for his
or her office or employment, or the authorized compensation paid

 

to a board or commission appointee for his or her office or
employment;

 

c. Any economic benefit provided equally to all residents of the
County;

d. A time or demand deposit in a financial institution;

e. An endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract purchased

from an insurance company;
f. Any accrued pension rights in the County fund; or

g. With respect to a mutual fund, the individual securities of other
instruments owned by the mutual fund.

Gg? means any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not limited to, cash,
food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements related to or attributable to

 

government employment or the official position of an official, board or commission
appointee or employee.

Leave of absence means any period during which an employee does not receive
compensation for employment, service credit towards pension benefits, and health insurance
benefits paid for by the employer.

Legislative action means the introduction, sponsorship, consideration, debate,
amendment, passage, defeat, approval, veto or other official action or nonaction on any
ordinance, resolution, motion, order, appointment, application or other matter pending or
proposed in the County Board or any committee or subcommittee thereof.

O?icial means any elected County official or appointed official, regardless of
whether the official is com 
ealLI-l-reei?ul-IHl-y.

Pemon means any individual, entity, corporation, partnership, firm, association,
union, trust, estate, as well as any parent or subsidiary of any of the foregoing, and whether
or not operated for profit.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 5

Po/itical activity means any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not include activities
relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative or administrative action;
relating to collective bargaining; or that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official
duties.

Political fundraising committee means any fund, organization, political action
committee or other entity that, for purposes of influencing in any way the outcome of any
election, receives or expends money or anything of value or transfers money or anything of
value to any other fund, political party, candidate, organization, political action committee,
or other entity.

Political organization means a party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement of organization
with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under Section 9.3 of the Election Code
(10 but only with regard to those activities that require filing with the State
Board of Elections or a county clerk.

Prohibited political activity means:

(1) Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting, political
rally, political demonstration, or other political event.

(2) Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase of,
selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political fund-
raiser, political meeting, or other political event.

(3) Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or report
regarding any thing of value intended as a campaign contribution.

(4) Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in connection
with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political organization
for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.

(5) Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in an
election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.

(6) Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political organization
or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.

(7) Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a political
organization or for or against any referendum questions or helping in an
effort to get voters to the polls.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(8)

(9)



(11)

(12)

(l3)

(14)
(15)

JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGE6

Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or ?ling any
petition on behalf of a candidate for elective of?ce or for or against any
referendum question.

Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective of?ce in that
capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective of?ce.

Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires in connection
with a campaign for elective of?ce or on behalf ofa political organization
for political purposes.

Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign literature,
campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any candidate for
elective of?ce or for or against any referendum question.

Campaigning for any elective of?ce or for or against any referendum
question.

Managing or working on a campaign for elective of?ce or for or against
any referendum question.

Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party convention.

Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any election.

Prohibited source means any person or entity who:

(1)

(2)

(3)

Is seeking of?cial action:
a. By the of?cial, board or commission appointee; or

b. in the case of an employee, by the employee or by the of?cial,
County agency, board or commission or other employee directing
the employee.

Does business or seeks to do business:
a. With the of?cial, board or commission appointee; or

b. In the case of an employee, with the employee or with the of?cial,
County agency, board or commission or other employee directing
the employee.

Conducts activities regulated:

a. By the of?cial, board or commission appointee; or

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 A.M.

PAGE 7

b. In the case of an employee, by the official, County agency, board or
commission or other employee directing the employee.

(4) Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or

nonperformance of the official duties of the of?cial, board or commission
appointee or employee; or

 

(5) ls registered or required to be registered with the County pursuant to the
Cook County Lobbyist Ordinance, except that an entity not otherwise a
prohibited source does not become a prohibited source merely because a
registered lobbyist is one of its members or serves on its board of directors.

Public/y post or publicly display means to intentionally communicate or otherwise
intentionally make available to the general public.

Single candidacy means the time period during which a candidate is seeking office
with primary election and general election being separate candidacies.

Statement means the disclosure of economic interest form required to be filed by the
Illinois Governmental Ethics Act (5 420/4A-l Ol et seq.).

Sec. 2-562. Applicabilitv.

 

 

 

This Ordinance shall_a_pplv to all officialsLboard or commission appointe_es and
emplp?es as de?ned in Sec. 2-561. Bgard or commission appointees
?agree to adhere the Cook Cnunly_l?_thics Ordinance in order to be eligible for

 

appointment to any hot: rd or Commission as delined in See. 2-561.

 

Secs. 2-563 - 2-570. Reserved.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Part
l, Chapter 2, Article VII, Division 2, Subdivision ll, Sections 2-571 through 2?588 shall be
amended as follows:

Sec. 2?571. Fiduciary duty.

Officials and employees shall at all times in the performance of their public duties
owe a fiduciary duty to the County. Board or commission appointees appointed under

 

duties and appointed board or commission appointees appointed under State Statute owe a

 

fiduciarv dutv to the members of the Milk: for wh_ich they have been appointed to serve.

 

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 8

Sec. 2?572. Improper influence.

No of?cial or employee shall make, participate in making or in any way
attempt to use the? of?cial position to influence any County governmental decision or
action in which the of?cial or employee knows, has reason to know or should know that the
official or employee has any economic interest distinguishable from that of the general
public ofthe County.

No official or employee shall make, participate in making or in any way
attempt to use their of?cial position to influence any County governmental decision or
action, including decisions or actions on any Cook County Board Agenda Item, in exchange
for or in consideration ofthe employment of said of?cial's or employee's relatives, domestic
partner or civil union partner by any other of?cial or employee.

Ikil No board or commission appointee shall make. participate in making her of?cial position to eniy decision or action by the

 

 

Board or L'ommission to which the} are appoinled in which gommission

__rez_1_s_on know or should lino? that the board or commission

 

has an ceonomiejnrerest distinguishable from that of the general public served
the board or commission to which they are nppoinl?t-xl.

 

 

Sec. 2?573. Dual employment.

No of?cial or employee shall accept other employment which will impair
his or her independence ofjudgment in the exercise of of?cial duties.

No of?cial or employee shall accept other employment which will impair
his or her ability to perform County duties and responsibilities.

Sec. 2-574. Receiving and soliciting gifts and favors.

Gift ban. Except as otherwise provided in this division, no of?cial, board or
commission appointee or employee shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
prohibited source or in violation of any Federal or State statute, rule, or regulation or any
County ordinance, rule or regulation. This ban applies to and includes spouses of and
immediate family living with the of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.

Exceptions. The restriction in Subsection of this section does not apply
to the following:

(1) Opportunities, benefits, and services. Opportunities, bene?ts, and services
that is available on the same conditions as for the general public.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGE9

Market value paid. Anything for which the official,_boa_rd or commissio_n
appointee or employee or his or her spouse or immediate family member
living with him or her pays the market value.

Lawful contribution, fundraising event. Any contribution that is lawfully
made under the Election Code or under this article or activities associated
with a fundraising event in support ofa political organization or candidate.

Educational materials and missions. This exception may be further defined
by rules adopted by the Board of Ethics.

Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss County or Board or Commission
business. This exception may be further defined by rules adopted by the
Board of Ethics.

Gift from relative. A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to
the individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, ?rst cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-
in-law, son-in?law, daughter-in-law, brother?in-Iaw, sister-in-Iaw,
stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half
brother, half sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or
grandmother of the individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or
fiancee.

Gift on basis ofpersonal friendship. Anything provided by an individual on
the basis ofa personal friendship unless the official or employee has reason
to believe that, under the circumstances, the gift was provided because of
the official position or employment of the of?cial?o?cicommission
appointee or employee and not because of the personal friendship. In
determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal friendship,
the official, board or commission appointee or employee shall consider the

 

circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:

a. The history of the relationship between the individual giving the
gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange
ofgifts between those individuals;

b. Whether to the actual knowledge of the official, board or
commission appointee or employee the individual who gave the gift
personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(8)

(9)

(10)

(ll)
(12)

JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGEIO

c. Whether to the actual knowledge of the of?cial, board or
commission appointee or employee the individual who gave the gift
also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
of?cials or employees or their spouses or immediate family
members living with them.

Food or re?resnments not exceeding 3 75. 00 per person. Food or
refreshments not exceeding $75.00 per person in value on a single calendar
day; provided that the food or refreshments are consumed on the premises
from which they were purchased or prepared or catered. For purposes of
this subsection, the term "catered" means food or refreshments that are
purchased ready to eat and delivered by any means.

Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, etc, from outside employment.
Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other bene?ts resulting
from the outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the duties of the of?cial, board or commission
appointee or employee as an of?ce holder or employee) of the of?cial,
board or commission appointee or employee, or the spouse of the of?cial,
board or commission or employee, if the bene?ts have not been

 

offered or enhanced because of the of?cial position or employment of the
of?cial, honril or or employee, and are customarily
provided to others in similar circumstances.

lntra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose of this
article "intra?governmental gift? means any gift given to an of?cial or
employee of a County agency or board or commission appointee from
another of?cial or employee of the same County agency or board or
commission; and "inter?governmental gift" means any gift given to an
of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee of a County agency or
department by an of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee of
another County agency or department, of a State of Illinois agency, of a

 

Federal agency, or of any governmental entity.
Bequests. Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.

[terns valued at less than $100.00. Any item or items from any one
prohibited source during any calendar year having a cumulative total value
of less than $l 00.00.

Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and

independent of one another.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 11

An official, board or commission appointee or employee does not violate
this article if the official, board or commission appointee or employee takes
reasonable action to return the prohibited gift to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
Section 501(c)(3) of the lnternal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered, or succeeded.

 

Gifts which have a value of greater than $100.00 (or a series of gifts with an
aggregate value of greater than $l00.00 from one prohibited source during any l2?month
period) received by any of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee from a
prohibited source shall be disclosed to the Board of Ethics by the recipient within ten
business days of receipt. The disclosure shall include the name and government title of the

 

recipient; the name, address, occupation and employer ofthe donor; a description ofthe gift
and its value; and the intended use or disposition of the gift.

Any and all gifts having a value greater than $100.00 and received by an
official, huartl or cgmmission 21ng or employee for participating in speaking
engagements, lectures, debates or organized discussion forums arising out of his or her
County employment shall be disclosed to the Board of Ethics within ten business days of
receipt.

Sec. 2-575. Reserved.
See. 2-576. County-owned property.

No of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee shall engage in or permit
the unauthorized use of property that is owned or leased by

 

 

t_h_e_Countv or @_Board or Commission to which they are ap_po_in_te_d. @ean??awuet-l- Hllt-l
Geath?lease?ElSuch property shall only be used for official County or Board or Commission
business.

 

Sec. 2-577. Use or disclosure of con?dential information.

No official, board or commission appointee or employee shall use or disclose, other

 

than:
(1) ln the performance of his or her official duties;
(2) As may be required by law; or

(3) As permitted in Section 2-584, confidential information gained in the
course of or by reason of his position or employment. For purposes of this
subsection, the term "confidential information" means any information that
may not be obtained pursuant to the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, as
amended.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 12

Sec. 2?578. Con?icts of interest.

No official or employee shall make, or participate in making, any County
governmental decision a_nd no lmurd or commission appoimcc shall mukc. or purlicipulc in

 

making, any board or commission decision with respect to any matter in which the of?cial,

 

board or commission appointee or employee, or the spouse, or dependent, domestic partner
or civil union partner of the official or employee, has any economic interest distinguishable
from that ofthe general public. For purposes ofthis section, the term ?dependent" shall have
the same meaning as provided in the US. Internal Revenue Code, as amended.

Any employee who has a con?ict of interest as described by Subsection 
of this section shall advise his or her supervisor of the con?ict or potential con?ict. The
immediate supervisor shall either:

Assign the matter to another employee; or

(2) Require the employee to eliminate the economic interest giving rise to the
con?ict and only thereafter shall the employee continue to participate in the
matter.

(0) Any of?cial, or commission appointee or employee who has a

 

con?ict of interest as described by Subsection of this section shall disclose the con?ict
of interest in writing the nature and extent of the interest to the Cook County Board of
Ethics as soon as the employee, board or commission appointee or official becomes aware

 

ofsuch con?ict and shall not take any action or make any decisions regarding that particular
matter. A Cook County Board Commissioner shall publicly disclose the nature and interest
of such interest on the report of proceedings of the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
and shall also notify the Cook County Board of Ethics of such interest within 72 hours of
introduction of any ordinance, resolution, contract, order or other matter before the Cook
County Board of Commissioners, or as soon thereafter as the Commissioner is or should be
aware of such con?ict of interest. The Board of Ethics shall make all disclosures available
for public inspection and copying immediately upon request.

Sec. 2-579. Representation of other persons.

No elected official or employee may represent, or have an economic
interest in the representation of any person other than the County in a formal or informal
proceeding or transaction before any County agency in which the agency's action or
nonaction is of a nonministerial nature and no board or commissipp appointee mav
l?pl'ESenl. or have an economic interest in the representation of any person other than the

 

hoard or commission in a formal or informal proceeding or transaction or

 

 

commission to wliicl_i_tl;e_b9ard or commission appointee is a party in which the board or

 

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 13

No elected of?cial or employee may have an economic interest in the
representation of any person in any judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding before any
administrative agency or court in which the County is a party and that person's interest is
directly adverse to that of the County and no board or commission appointee may have an

 

interest in the representation of any person in any i_tt_di_ci_a_ _ or q_t1a_si_-jtitlieial

 

 

iriicueding before anv administrative agency tu'gtitirt in which said board or commission to

 

which the heard or commission appointee is a party and that person's interest is directly

 

 

adverse to that ofthe board 

No appointed of?cial may represent any person in the circumstances
described in Subsection or of this section unless the matter is wholly unrelated to the
appointed of?cial's County duties and responsibilities and no board_ti_r_ 

maxim-present an} tight?int?ht; circumstances described in Subsection (awr th)

of this section unless the matter is whillv unrelated to the board or commission appointee?s
(titles and responsibilities,

For purposes of this section, the term "economic interest" shall not include
the interest of the spouse, domestic partner or civil union partner of an of?cial, board or
commission appointee or employee which interest is related to the independent occupation,
profession or employment ofthe spouse.

Sec. 2-580. Post employment restrictions.

No former official or employee shall assist or represent any person other
than the County in any judicial or administrative proceeding involving the County if the
official or employee was counsel of record or participated personally and substantially in
the proceeding during his or her term ofof?ce or employment.

No former official or employee shall assist or represent any person in any
business transaction involving the County, if the of?cial or employee participated
personally and substantially in that transaction during his or her term of of?ce or
employment.

No former official or employee may, for a period of one year after the
termination of his or her term of of?ce or employment, knowingly accept employment or
receive compensation or fees for services from an employer if the employee or of?cial,
during the year immediately preceding termination of County employment and on behalf of
the County, participated personally and substantially in the decision to award County
contracts with a cumulative value of over $25,000.00 to the person or entity, or its parent or
subsidiary.

No former of?cial or employee may, for a period of one year after the
termination of his or her term of of?ce or employment, knowingly and for compensation
lobby any County official or employee on behalf of any other entity.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.

PAGE 14
The requirements of this section shall not be waived by the Board of Ethics.
This section applies only to persons who terminate an affected position on
or after the effective date ofthis article.
Sec. 2-581. Interest in County business or Board or Commission business.
No elected of?cial or employee shall have a financial interest in his or her

own name or in the name of any other person in any contract, work or business of the
County, {.1th the case ol'a board or commission or business

 

pl' the _pr commission to \thich they are appointed or that which the hoard or
commission approves. N3 elected of?cial or employee shall have a financial interest in his.

 

or her (M1 name or in the name of any other person in the sale of any article, whenever the
expense, price or consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid with funds
belonging to or administered by the County. or in the casegofjt board or. commission

 

appointee in the sale of any article, whenever the expense. price or consideration of the

 

 

contract, work. or sale is paid 't't funds belonging to or administered [w the board

 

 

or commission to which they are appointed. Compensation for property taken pursuant to
the County's eminent domain power shall not constitute a financial interest within the
meaning ofthis section. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding following
public notice, no elected official or employee shall have a financial interest in the purchase

 

of any property that:
Belongs to the County;
(2) Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
(3) Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit ofthe County.

No appointed official shall engage in a transaction described in Subsection
of this section unless the matter is wholly unrelated to the appointed official's County
duties and responsibilities and no board or commission appointee shall engage in a

 

trunsgietion described in Subseetiop La} of this section unless the matter it 

 

to the heard or commission appointee?sboard or duties and responsibilities.

 

For purposes of this section, the term ?financial interest" shall not include
the interest ofthe spouse, domestic partner, or civil union partner of an official or employee
which interest is related to the independent occupation, profession or employment of the
spouse.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGEIS

Sec. 2-582. Employment of relatives.

No of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee shall participate in
a hiring decision, or shall employ or advocate for employment, in any agency over which

 

such of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee either serves or over which he or
she exercises authority, supervision or control, any person who is a relative or domestic
partner of said of?cial or employee, or in exchange for or in consideration of the

 

employment of any said of?cial's or employee's relatives or domestic partners, by any other
of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee.

 

No of?cial or employee, on behalf of any County agency, shall participate
in a decision whether to contract with any person with whom or in which the of?cial or
employee knows that a relative, domestic partner or civil union partner of that of?cial or
employee has a ?nancial interest. No of?cial or employee shall exercise contract
management authority where any relative or domestic partner of the of?cial or employee is
employed by or has contracts with persons doing County work over which the County
official or employee has or exercises contract management authority. No board or

 

goimnissiun appointee, on behalf of [he board to which they are appointed,
sh__:_r_Lp:_Irlicipal_e in a tn eonn?ael with any whom or in which
the board or commission appointeeknows lhal a relative, domestic partner or civil union

 

 

[?mer of that board or commission appointee has a ?nancial interest. No hoard o_r

 

commission appointee shall exercise contract management authority where any relative or

 

inneslie partner of the hoard or spin.a.1.is_s_i_au appoinlee is employed hv or i_t_ 1

 

 

persons doinghoard or coirnnissitui work which the board or commission appointee

 

 

has or exercises contract management authority.

 

Any person or persons doing business with the County shall be required,
upon execution of a contract with the County of Cook, to disclose to the Board of Ethics,
the existence of familial relationships they may have with all persons, as de?ned in
subsection holding elective of?ce in the State of Illinois, the County of Cook, or in any
municipality within the County of Cook. In the event that a business entity is contracted to
do business with the County of Cook, the disclosure shall apply to the following persons
who are employed by the business entity or who were employed by the business entity
during the 12-month period immediately preceding the date ofthe contract:

(I) All persons who are designated as the entity?s board of directors;
(2) All of?cers of the business entity;
(3) All persons who are responsible for the general administration of the entity;

(4) All agents who are duly authorized to execute documents on behalf of the
business entity;

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.

PAGE16

(5) All employees who are directly engaged in contractual work with the
County on behalfofthe business entity.

For purposes of Subsection doing business means any one or any

combination of leases, contracts or purchases to or with the County or any County agency in
excess of $25,000.00 in any calendar year.

All persons registered as a lobbyist with the County of Cook shall be
required, upon ?ling with the Cook County Clerk, to disclose to the Board of Ethics the
existence of familial relationships they may have with all persons, as de?ned in Subsection
holding elective office in the State of Illinois, the County of Cook, or in any
municipality in the County of Cook.

For purposes of this section, relative or familial relationship shall mean a
person who is related to an official or employee as spouse or any of the following, whether
by blood, marriage or adoption: domestic partner, civil union partner, parent, child, brother,
sister, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, grandparent, grandchild, father-in-law, mother?in?law,
son-in?law, brother-in-law, sister?in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson,
stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother or half?sister.

The disclosure required by this section shall be filed by January of each
calendar year or within 30 days ofthe execution of any contract or lease.

Any person or business entity who is doing business with the county in
accordance with Subsection at the time this ordinance is passed shall be required to file
such disclosure no later than 60 days after the effective date ofthis section.

In addition to other penalties provided in this division, any person filing a
late disclosure statement under this section shall be assessed a late filing fee as set out in
Section 32-1 per day the disclosure is late, payable to the Cook County Board of Ethics
upon filing. Any person ?ling a late disclosure statement after January 31 shall be subject to
a penalty of$100.00 per day after January 31 that the disclosure is late, payable to the Cook
County Board of Ethics upon filing.

in addition to the penalties provided for in subsection of this section,
any person or business entity convicted of a violation of any provision of this division is
prohibited for a period ofthree years from the date ofthe conviction from engaging, directly
or indirectly, in any business with the County of Cook. Any person or business entity who is
found guilty of knowingly or willfully filing a false, misleading or incomplete disclosure
shall be prohibited for a period ofthree years from the date ofthe conviction from engaging,
directly or indirectly, in any business with the County of Cook.

The Cook County Board of Ethics is hereby authorized to promulgate rules
and procedures for the reporting and enforcement ofthis section, including the designation
ofa disclosure form to be used by all persons required to file under this section.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 AM.

PAGE 17
Sec. 2-583. Political activity.
No official, board or commission appointee or employee shall compel,

 

coerce or intimidate any County official or employee to make or refrain from making any

 

political contribution. No official, board or commission appointee shall directly solicit any
political contribution from his or her employees, the spouses, domestic partners or civil
union partners of or immediate family living with his or her employees. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prevent any official, board or commission appointee or

 

employee from voluntarily making a contribution or from receiving a voluntary
contribution.

No employee with contract management authority shall serve on the
political fund?raising committee of any elected official or candidate for County office.

(0) County employees shall not intentionally perform any prohibited political
activity during any compensated time (other than vacation, personal, or compensatory time
off). County employees or of?cials shall not intentionally misappropriate any County
property or resources by engaging in any prohibited political activity for the benefit of any
campaign for elective office or any political organization.

At no time shall any official or employee intentionally misappropriate the
services of any County employee and at no time shall any board or commission appointee

 

 

misappropriate the services of any board or commission employee by requiring that
employee to perform any prohibited political activity:

As part of that employee?s County duties or in the case of a board or
commission1 as part of that emplovee?s board or commissitmjluties;

 

 

(2) As a condition of County employmentin i_n_[_he case of a board or

 

commission. as a or commission employment: or

 

(3) During any time off that is compensated by the County or board or
commission (such as vacation, personal, or compensatory time off).

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be required
at any time to participate in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that
employee being awarded any additional compensation or employee benefit, in the form ofa

 

salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or otherwise.

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be awarded
any additional compensation or employee benefit, in the form ofa salary adjustment, bonus,
compensatory time off, continued employment, or otherwise, in consideration for the
employee's participation in any prohibited political activity.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 18

Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise appropriate for
a County employee or board or commission appointee to engage in?as?a?paH?etLl-ris?eeher

 

   

voluntary basis as permitted by law.
Sec. 2-584. Whistleblower protection.

No complainant, or employee acting on behalf of a complainant, shall be
discharged, threatened or otherwise discriminated against regarding compensation, terms,
conditions, location or privileges of employment because:

(1) The complainant or employee acting on behalf of the complainant reports
or is about to report, verbally or in writing, a violation or suspected
violation ofthis Ordinance; or

(2) The complainant or employee acting on behalf of the complainant is
requested to participate in an investigation, hearing or inquiry held pursuant
to this Ordinance, or in any related court action.

This section shall not apply to a complainant, or employee acting on behalf
of a complainant, who knowingly makes a false report.

See. 2-585. Limitations of contributions to candidates and elected of?cials.
No person shall make contributions exceeding the limits established by the

Election Code, l0 5/9-1 et seq, when making contributions to any of the following
elected officials or candidates for such office: County Board President; Cook County
Commissioner; Cook County State's Attorney; Cook County Clerk of the Circuit Court;
Cook County Assessor; Cook County Treasurer; Cook County Board of Review
Commissioner; Cook County Clerk; and Cook County Recorder of Deeds except as
otherwise provided in Section 2?585

No person who does business with the County or who has done business
with the County within the preceding four years or is seeking to do business with the
County or is a person required to register as a lobbyist with the County shall make
contributions in an aggregate amount exceeding $750.00:

To any candidate for County office or elected County official during a
single candidacy; or

(2) To any elected official of the government of the County during any
nonclection year of his or her term.

(3) To any local, state, or federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or
established in support of, a candidate for County of?ce or an elected
County official.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 19

The combined effect ofthese provisions is intended to permit total contribution tip
to, but not exceeding, $1,500.00 in a year in which a candidacy occurs. A year, for purposes
ofthis section, is from January 1 to December 31 of each year.

For purposes of Subsection ofthis section, an entity and its subsidiaries,
parent company or otherwise af?liated companies, and any of their employees, of?cers,
directors and partners who make a political contribution for which they are reimbursed by
the entity or its af?liates shall be considered a single person. However, nothing in this
provision shall be construed to prohibit such an employee, of?cer, director or partner from
making a political contribution for which he is not reimbursed by a person with whom he or
she is af?liated, even if that person has made the maximum contribution allowed under
Subsection ofthis section.

Any contributions made under this section shall be reported as required by
the Election Code, l0 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.

For purposes of Subsection of this section, ?done business? or "doing
business? means any one or any combination of sales, purchases, leases or contracts to, from
or with the County or any County agency in excess of $10,000.00 in any 12 consecutive
months or during the previous four years. 

For purposes of Subsection of this section, "seeking to do business"
means taking action within the past six months to obtain a contract or business with the
County when, if such action were successful, it would result in the person doing business
with the County as de?ned in Subsection ofthis section.

Any ?rm, or its of?cers, directors or partners, contracted by the County to
provide ?nancial audits of county ?nances are prohibited from making campaign
contributions to any county of?cial or candidate for county of?ce.

Any ?rm, or its of?cers, directors or partners, contracted by the County to
act as ?nancial council, bond council, underwriter's council, legal counsel, or ?nancial
manager for the issuance of any bond is prohibited from making campaign contributions to
any county of?cial or candidate for county of?ce.

Any candidate for any county of?ce or any current elected of?cial in Cook
County government shall return contributions found in excess of the limitations set forth in
this section within 30 days of noti?cation from the Board of Ethics. Failure to return
contributions within 30 days shall be a violation of this section and subject to ?nes under
Section 

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.

PAGE 20

Sec. 2-586. Newsletters, brochures, public service announcements, and
promotional materials.

County funds and resources may not be used by any elected County official

to print or pay for the printing of any newsletters or brochures during the period beginning
January 1 of the year of a general primary election and ending the day after such general
primary election and during a period beginning September 1 of the year of a general
election and ending the day after such general election if the elected County of?cial is a
candidate in such primary or general election. A County elected of?cial may not mail,
during the period beginning January 1 of the year ofa general primary election and ending
the day after such general primary election and during a period beginning September 1 of
the year ofa general election and ending the day after such general election, any newsletters
or brochures that were printed at any time using County funds or resources if the elected
County of?cial is a candidate in such primary or general election.

This section shall not apply to any informational brochures that are solely
related to and accompany any mailing of a property tax bill, notice of property tax
assessment, or notice of voter registration or polling place information, or to a brochure
mailed to a constituent in response to that constituent?s inquiry concerning the needs ofthat
constituent or questions raised by that constituent.

No public service announcement or advertisement that is on behalf of any
)unty administered program and contains the proper name, image, or voice of any elected
County official shall be broadcast or aired on radio or television or printed in a commercial
newspaper or commercial magazine at any time on or after the date that the elected County
of?cial files nominating papers for any elected of?ce, and for any time thereafter that the
elected County of?cial remains a candidate for any of?ce.

The proper name or image of any elected of?cial may not appear on any:
(I) Bumper stickers;
(2) Commercial billboards;

(3) Lapel pins or buttons;
(4) Magnets; or

(5) Stickers, if designed, paid for, produced, and/or distributed with public
funds.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

Sec. 2?587.

(21)

JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 21

Ethics Education Seminar.

Each elected of?cial, members of each elected official?s personal staff, each

employee holding a senior administrative service position with the County, and each board
or commission appointee, upon due notice, shall attend an ethics education seminar offered

 

on a regular basis by the Board of Ethics within i20 days of the effective date of this
amendatory ordinance or within 120 days of becoming an elected official, becoming a
member of an elected official's personal staff, becoming a board or commission appointee

 

or holding a senior administrative service position with the County (or as soon thereafter as

an ethics education seminar is offered by the Board of Ethics) and every four years
thereafter. The seminar shall educate persons as to their duties and responsibilities under

this article.



rule.

Sec. 2?588.
(8)

the following:
(1)
(2)

(3)

(4)

The Board of Ethics shall define ?senior administrative service position" by

Identity protection policy.

Prohibited activities. No officer or employee ofthe County shall do any of

Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual?s social
security number;

Print an individual's social security on any card required for the individual
to access products or services provided by the person or entity;

Require an individual to transmit his or her social security number over the
internet, unless the connection is secure or the social security number is


Print an individual's social security number on any materials that are mailed
to the individual, through the US. Postal Service, any private mail service,
electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless State or Federal
law requires the social security number to be on the document to be mailed.
A social security number that may be permissibly mailed under this section
may not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer that
does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the
envelope having been opened;

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(5)

(6)

(7)



circumstances:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 22

Collect, use or disclose a social security number from an individual, unless
required to do so under State or Federal law, rules or regulations, or the
collection, use or disclosure of the social security number is absolutely
necessary for the performance of that agency?s duties and responsibilities;
(ii) the need and purpose for the social security number is documented
before collection ofthe social security number; and the social security
number collected is relevant to the documented need and purpose;

Require an individual to use his or her social security number to access an
internet website;

Use the social security number for any purpose other than the purpose for
which it was collected.

Exceptions. The prohibitions in subsection do not apply in the following

The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees, contractors
or subcontractors of the County or disclosure to another governmental
entity or its agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors if disclosure is
absolutely necessary in order for the entity to perform its duties and
responsibilities;

The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court order, warrant
or subpoena;

The collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers if it is
absolutely necessary in order to ensure the safety of County employees,
persons committed to correctional facilities, local jails and other law
enforcement facilities or retention centers; and all persons working in or
visiting a County facility;

The collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers if it is
absolutely necessary for internal verification or administrative purposes;

The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate or prevent
fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a credit
report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated
under the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act, or to locate a missing person, a
lost relative, or a person who is due a benefit such as a pension benefit or an
unclaimed property benefit.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAC 23

Com?licls. Any standards of the County for the collection, use or disclosure
of social security numbers that are stricter than the standards under this policy with respect
to the protection of those social security numbers shall control in the event of any conflict
with the provisions ofthis policy.

Public Inspection and Copying of Documents. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this policy to the contrary, all officers of the County must comply with the
provisions of any other State law with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying
of information or documents containing all or any portion of an individual's social security
number. All officers and employees of the County must redact social security numbers from
the information or documents before allowing the public inspection or copying of the
information or documents.

Applicability.

This policy does not apply to the collection, use or disclosure of a social
security number as required by State or Federal law, rule or regulation.

(2) This policy does not apply to documents that are required to be open to the
public under any State or Federal law, rule or regulation, applicable case
law, Supreme Court Rule, or the Constitution ofthe State 

Compliance with Federal Law. if a Federal law takes effect requiring any
Federal agency to establish a national unique patient health identifier program, the County
shall follow that law.

Embedded Social Security Numbers. No of?cer or employee of the County
may encode or embed a social security number in or on a card or document including, but
not limited to, using a bar code, chip, magnetic strip, RFID technology, or other technology,
in place of removing the social security number as required by this policy.

Identity Protection Requirements. In accordance with the requirements of
the Identity Protection Act, 5 l79/l et seq.

(1) All officers, employees, and agents of the County identified as having
access to social security numbers in the course of performing their duties
shall be trained to protect the confidentiality of social security numbers.
Training shall include instructions on the proper handling of information
that contains social security numbers from the time of collection to the time
of destruction of such information.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24,2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGE24

(2) Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain social security numbers shall have access to such
information or documents.

(3) Social security numbers requested from an individual in permissible
circumstances shall be provided in a manner that makes the social security
number easily redacted ifrequired to be released as part ofa public records
request.

(4) When collecting a social security number in permissible circumstances or
upon request by the individual, a statement of the purpose(s) for which the
County is collecting and using the social security number shall be provided.

(5) The County shall advise its employees of the existence ofthis policy and
make a COpy of the policy available to each employee, and shall also make
this privacy policy available to any member of the public upon request. If
the County amends this privacy policy, then the County shall also advise its
employees of the existence of the amended policy and make a copy of the
amended policy available to each employee.

Implementation. All County agencies shall adopt procedures to come into
compliance with this policy by the effective date ofthis Ordinance.

Violation. Any person who intentionally violates the prohibitions in
Subsection of this policy is guilty ofa Class misdemeanor. Suspected violations shall
be reported to the Board of Ethics or the Office of the Independent Inspector General as
soon as practicable, and they will refer violations to the State's Attorney when appropriate
for prosecution.

Supersede. This policy does not supersede any more restrictive law, rule or
regulation regarding the collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers. However,
all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this ordinance are
hereby repealed insofar as they conflict herewith.

El'l'eetive Date: The Qijtlinanee Amendments shall be effective upon passage.

*Referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee on 05-14-12.

Commissioner Garcia, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved the Approval of
Communication No. 318086. The motion carried.

Leave was granted to add all Commissioners as Sponsors.

3l8088

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGEZS

AN ORDINANCE AMENDMENT TO PART 1, CHAPTER 2, ARTICLE IV, DIVISION
5, SECTION 2-2851 (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Gregg Goslin, County Commissioner.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

 

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County that Part 1, Chapter 2, Article IV, Division 5, Section 2-285.l shall be created as
follows:

DIVISION 5. - INSPECTOR GENERAL
See. 2-285.I Board or Commission Appointees.

Hoard L'ummissi? Appointee: as defined in Section 3-56l of the Cool. Cunniv 
O_rdinance, are individuals appointed by the President to Boards or Commissions c_reategl_by_
spelt _a_rppoinlment subiect to the appi'giyi-il,

 

 

 

confirmation o_r_a_c_l_vice and con?nt of the _C_ounty Board. Board or Commission Appointees

 

musipgree to be Stlmuui to the UllCi Ordinance and investigationjy the OIIG in order to be

 

 

eligible for appointment to any board or commission. The OIIG Ordinance wil_l_apply to
Board or Commissinp?ppoinlzees in and will impose the same duties and

obligations. as it does to Cook County of?cials,

 

 

 

*Referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee on 05-14-12.

The above Communication No. 318988 was Withdrawn by Commissioner Goslin.

3 8989

AMENDMENT TO THE LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL TO THE COOK COUNTY BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by John A. Fritchey and Larry Suffredin,
County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDM ENT

 

LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL TO THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS

WHEREAS, during the Budget deliberations, an amendment was introduced and
approved by the Cook County Board to create two Legislative Counsel positions and one
Administrative Support position; and

WHEREAS, the impetus for creating these positions was to assist the Board of
Commissioners in creating, analyzing and when called upon, to opine on legislation created
by a single or multiple members intended for presentation to the entire County Board; and

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 26

WHEREAS, said Legislative Counsel positions were to be completely independent ofthe
Executive branch and of any other elected official, including the Office of the State?s
Attorney, in order to avoid a conflict of interest when reviewing or opining on legislation as
well as to function on behalf of and exclusively in the best interest of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners; and

WHEREAS, although the three Legislative Counsel positions created during the FY2011
were reduced to one during the FY2012 budget, the underlying need for the Legislative
Counsel function persists; and

WHEREAS, despite the remaining Legislative Counsel position being fully funded, it has
yet to be filled; and

WHEREAS, it is also prudent to establish the qualifications, mission and duties of said
Legislative Counsel.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners
that Chapter 50 Libraries, Article I, Legislative Reference Services, of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 50?1. Title.

This article shall be known as the "Legislative Reference Services Act? and may be cited as
such.

Sec. 50-2. Recitals.

The President and the Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook find that all of the
recitals contained in the preambles to this article are full, true and correct and do incorporate
them into this article by this reference.

Sec. 50-3. Public purpose.

It is hereby found, determined and declared that the purpose of this article is to assist the
Board and President in the research and drafting of amendments, ordinances and resolutions
for consideration before the Board; ensure that ordinances and resolutions prepared are
accurate in form, structure and uniformity; maintain a legislative library and make certain
that the County's Code is updated accurately.

Sec. 50-4. Director, staffand duties.

The President shall appoint the Legislative Reference Director who shall be
responsible for assisting the Board and President in the research and drafting of
amendments, ordinances and resolutions for consideration before the Board; ensure that
ordinances and resolutions prepared are accurate in form, structure and uniformity; maintain
a legislative library and make certain that the County's Code is updated accurately.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 A.M.
PAGE 27

The Legislative Reference Director shall serve under the Executive Law Librarian
and have access to Cook County Law Library Research Assistants and Staff as needed and
directed.

The Executive Law Librarian shall provide assistance, materials and research
materials as needed for use by the Legislative Reference Director.

The Legislative Reference Director shall notify the Clerk of the Board that the
ordinances and resolutions prepared are accurate in form, structure and uniformity.

Sec. 50-5. Legislative Counsel to the Board of Commissioners, quali?cations, mission
and duties.

Lal__ The Legislature L'uunsel sli_a_l__l_ be appointed by [he l?residenl of [he Board of
Commissioners with the advice and consent ofthe Board of Commissioners and shall serve

 

 

until removed by the President with the advice and egtsent of the Board of Commissitmet;

 

liens: of a office of the legislative ("canseL the vacancy s_ha   be filled in

 

the manneLsetforth aforesaid

(l1) The LegislativeCounsel to the Board of Commissioners must be an_attorney

 

adm?ted to practice law in the State o_f Illinois and knowledgeable in some or all of the

 

llillnx-ving;_ political science: purlia-imenlarv legislative procedure: and the 

 

 

ul' rcscarcll. statutory- and legislative drafting.

 

 

The mission of the Legislative Counsel In the Board is to assist

 

 

theBoarclinJhe development of sonic] p_ubl_i_c policy; ensure the integrity of the legislative

 

 

process. and branch in its proper canstitulimial rule in calmly

 

The duties {Wl'l'hc chislatigge thuiscl shall be as follows:

 

 

Provide legal and policv review of current I _and proposed legislation.

 

 

Prepare legal opinions.

 

Provide legal advice and research.

 

Draft and review legislation.

 

Th_e gtgislative t'cunsci s_h_a_ll_havc access to ('oulr (.?cunlv Luvs Librarv Research
Assistants and Staff as ne?d_ed and directed.

shall provide assislangez, and research

 

materials as needed for use by the Legislative Counsel.

 

Sec. 50-56. Con?dentiality.

Documents, research and ordinance material submitted to the Legislative Reference
Director or the Legislative Counsel to the Board of Commissioners shall be con?dential and
publication shall not be issued without the consent ofthe requestor.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
JULY 24, 2012 AT 9:50 AM.
PAGE 28

Sec. 50-67. Rules and regulations.

The Legislative Reference Director shall promulgate rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions ofthis Act.

Sec. 50-48. Effective date.

This article shall take effect immediately upon passage.

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective upon passage.

*Referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee on 07-10-12.
The above Communication No. 318989 was Withdrawn by Commissioner Fritchey.

Commissioner Silvestri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Gorman. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 3i8086 Approved
Communication Number 3 8988 Withdrawn
Communication Number 3] 8989 Withdrawn

Respectfully submitted,

Committee on Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

jam; W/?m

1.1. ?1
Larry Suffredm, Chairman

Allest:

  
 

7599?

. DeLeon, Secretary

 

Matthew

video recording ofthis meeting is available on the Office ofthe Secretary to the Board?s website on
the Video Page at 

board?x idco-and?audiof.

