The Forest Preserves of Cook County

Conservation and Policy Council
Workshop Minutes for October 12, 2017
Camp Reinberg ▪ 1801 N. Quentin Road, Palatine, IL 60074

Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 8:30 a.m. The following Council
members and others attended:
Advisory Council Members
Wendy Paulson, Chair
Mark Templeton, Secretary
Michael DeSantiago
Terry Guen
Robert Castaneda
Sylvia Jenkins
Laurel Ross

Forest Preserves Board
Commissioner Gregg Goslin
Commissioner Timothy Schneider

Forest Preserves Staff
Arnold Randall
Eileen Figel
Cathy Geraghty

Peter Ellis did not attend. Falona
Joy is on sabbatical and Linda
Mastandrea resigned.
Other Participants
In total, 52 people participated in the workshop, including representatives from:
Barrington Area Conservation Trust
Chicago Botanic Garden
Comissioner Suffredin’s office
Deer Grove Volunteers
Faith in Place

Forest Preserves Foundation
Forest Preserves of Cook County
Friends of the Forest Preserves
Logan Square Neighborhood
Association

National Park Service
North Branch Restoration
Project
Openlands
U of IL Extension

Welcome & Workshop Goals. Commissioners Greg Goslin and Tim Schneider welcomed the Council and
partners to Camp Reinberg and thanked them for their commitment to the Forest Preserves. The
Commissioners noted the importance of programs that bring residents to the Forest Preserves and help them
connect to nature. Commissioner Schneider noted that the Forest Preserves need more resources to meet longterm goals and suggested exploring the possibility of a future referendum.
Bob Megquier of Openlands presented the goals of the meeting as follows:
▪ INSPIRE AND BE INSPIRED by engaging with council members, partners, and volunteers in deeper,
interactive discussions around opportunities and challenges
▪ ACCELERATE CHANGE by thinking broadly, collaboratively, and differently about accomplishing and funding
our work. Conservation takes time. What are changes we can leverage to accomplish restoration more
quickly and at a larger scale?

1

 ▪

▪

IDENTIFY AND INTEGRATE specific, actionable strategies that will inform several scenarios related to the
level of funding available over the next 5 to 10 years. There is a need to identify steps for collaboration that
are concrete and credible.
CREATE consensus-based steps for action that address restoration, land preservation, accessibility, and
public support

Public Comments. There were no comments from the public.
Approval of Minutes. A motion was made by Wendy Paulson and seconded by Mark Templeton to approve the
minutes of the 9.7.17 meeting; the minutes were approved unanimously.
Story #1. Jane Balaban, a volunteer at the Forest Preserves for over 35 years, described her work with the
North Branch Prairie Project. When she began this work in the 1980s, little was known about restoring natural
areas. With no recognized books or science on the topic, Jane described how she and the other stewards
experimented with different approaches and honed their restoration techniques over time. She noted the
importance of both experiential learning and of having a dialogue with the land.
Jane also provided background on the 1996 Countywide moratorium on restoration, and the resulting backslide
she witnessed at restoration sites. At Bunker Hill, a site where Jane had been the steward since 1980, the ban
was not lifted for over 10 years. Jane noted many positive changes in recent years, including a renewed focus
on restoration and other initiatives of the Next Century Conservation Plan. Jane values the community she is
part of as a FPCC volunteer, and considers it a privilege to help restore the forest preserves to health.
Breakout Discussions – Rounds 1 & 2. Participants divided into breakout groups to discuss the following topics:
▪ Restoration
▪ Land Acquisition/Lease/Sale
▪ Making Preserves Welcoming & Accessible
Two rounds of each session were held to give attendees an opportunity to participate in multiple discussions.
Summaries of the topics discussed at each breakout session are included at the end of this document.
The History of Civic Leadership and the Forest Preserves of Cook County. Julia Bachrach, a local historian,
presented a brief overview summarizing the role of civic leaders and advocates during the founding of the Forest
Preserves. Julia described how the civic leaders built a broad community of public support by connecting with
civic and business organizations and organizing Saturday walks and picnics throughout the region’s natural
areas.
Breakout Discussions – Rounds 3. Participants divided into breakout groups to discuss building a community of
support. The following topics were included:
▪ Marketing & Outreach
▪ Legislative Strategies
▪ Engaging Civic Leaders and Other Stakeholders
Participants attended sessions on all three topics. Summaries of the topics discussed at each breakout session
are included at the end of this document.

2

 Approval of the 5-Year Implementation Strategy, 2017 Annual Report, and 2018 Budget Recommendation.
2018 Budget
Eileen Figel presented a summary of the updated budget strategy for 2018. Key points include:
▪ The projected budget gap for 2018 is $5.5 million. This figure is largely driven by two factors: (i) The need to
incorporate into the operating budget $3.9M for restoration work, and (ii) Increased personnel expenses
resulting from cost of living allocations, step increases, and rising employee healthcare costs.
▪ FPCC also faces a significant backlog of deferred capital maintenance estimated at $30M. In 2019, FPCC
plans to issue a modest capital bond which will provide approximately $2M to $3M per year for the next
several years. FPCC hopes this will cover the most urgent capital needs (such as collapsing roofs, boiler
replacements, and parking lot repairs). The bond does not provide adequate resources to assist with the
capital needs of either the Brookfield Zoo or the Chicago Botanic Garden. FPCC will continue to work with
these partners to seek additional resources.
▪ The 2018 budget will not include an additional $500K previously recommended to increase marketing and
outreach.
▪ To close the budget gap, FPCC proposes a range of cost reductions, increases to earned revenue, and other
strategies. These include closing personnel vacancies, further reductions in non-personnel costs, and
increased reliance on in-house maintenance activities such as parking lot repairs.
▪ Approximately $150K in revenue is expected to be generated by new parking fees at Swallow Cliff.
▪ Partner organizations—including the Zoo and Garden—will also receive a reduction in funding in 2018.
Council members asked several questions and offered the following comments:
Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Q:
A:
Q:
A:

The draft Annual Report includes a detailed evaluation conducted by the Steering Committee of seven
operational priorities. Is this level of detail appropriate, or would a summary be more helpful?
Council members agreed that the input provided by the Steering Committee was helpful and should be
included in full.
Should there be a strategy in place for reassigning people in the event the goals they have been working
on are no longer a priority?
Committee chairs have been asked to critically assess goals and potentially eliminate goals or defer that
are no longer viable. Committee chairs will also explore potential revisions to the timeline for achieving
goals.
Some initiatives in Attachment 3 of the Annual Report note the need for additional authority. Who
exactly is providing said authority?
These initiatives generally require legislation by the State of Illinois, unless otherwise noted.
Are other locations being considered for paid parking? Is Swallow Cliff being singled out for a particular
reason?
The Swallow Cliff location is unique due to the volume of traffic and major capital investments have
been made at the site. This site is consistently busy even during off-peak hours, and has spillover
impacts on nearby preserves. Terry Guen emphasized the need to carefully communicate the changes in
advance. (For example, consider installing signs which explain “Your parking dollars helped build
xxx/xxx…”)
Benjamin Cox questioned the logic of investing in a site in order to attract visitors, then penalizing them
3

 for coming. Benjamin emphasized the need to charge residents in a way that’s equal for everyone.
Arnold Randall was asked if FPCC could add parking at the site. Arnold responded that he is not
supportive of building more parking lots; FPCC is trying to reduce its current parking lot footprint.
Q:
A:

Michael DeSantiago commented that most of the Next Century Conservation Plan budget is for land
acquisition. He suggests removing this piece from the budget until it is financially viable.
Wendy Paulson responded that acquisition is a major challenge that is discussed in the report.

Annual Report and 5-Year Implementation Strategy
Eileen Figel presented the draft Annual Report and updated 5-Year Implementation Strategy. Eileen explained
that NCCP Committee chairs reviewed and updated progress reports and the 2018 priorities presented in the 5Year Implementation Strategy. Eileen added that:
▪

83% of the priority goals included in the 5-Year Implementation Strategy Document are moving forward or
have been implemented. Five initiatives have been redirected, and six have stalled, largely due to a lack of
resources.
A motion was made by Sylvia Jenkins and seconded by Michael Desantiago to delegate final approval of the
Annual Report and the 5-Year Implementation Strategy to the Council officers. The motion passed unanimously.
Council members were asked to provide to Eileen by October 19 any additional feedback to be incorporated into
the draft reports.
Inspirational Story 2. Lance Williams, Assistant Crew Leader, and Melissa Horther, Program Manager for the
Forest Preserve Experience Program, outlined their experiences with the Conservation Corps this past summer.
The Forest Preserve Experience Program was a 5-week summer program for high-school aged youth in
partnership with Friends of the Forest Preserves and the Housing Authority of Cook County. The program
consisted of 48 youth participants and 11 adult leaders who engaged with the Forest Preserves in a hands-on job
skills and environmental education internship. Prior to the program, over 90% of participants had never been to
the Forest Preserves or been formally employed. Youth and their parents praised the program for connecting
them to nature, and creating a sense of importance for participants in what was--for many--their first job.
Council members asked the following question:
Q:
Did the program include a component for future education and guidance for how to move forward in
the conservation field?
A:
Friends of the Forest Preserves conducts interview trainings and resume building sessions. Additionally,
they provide letters of recommendations and host alumni events to promote job opportunities and
other relevant internship programs. The Forest Preserves host an annual career fair and a conference for
Conservation Corps participants that allows them to network with contractors and conservation
professionals. However, there isn’t the capacity for scholarship opportunities as of yet.
Wrap Up. Benjamin Cox from Friends of the Forest Preserves led an open discussion summarizing the day’s
accomplishments and progress towards addressing the four (4) goals outlined at the beginning of the meeting.
Overall, participants felt inspired by the course of events and agreed that consensus-based action needs further
work. Additionally, participants felt that the workshop format was conducive to productive discussions between
the Council, internal groups, and external partners.
Suggestions for improvement included: 1) more time and/or fewer discussion topics, and 2) exercises that make
it clear what resources each person is bringing to the table.

4

 Adjourn. A motion to adjourn was made by Wendy Paulson and seconded by Sylvia Jenkins and the meeting
was adjourned at 4:12 p.m.

5

 10.12.17 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL WORKSHOP
NOTES FROM BREAKOUT GROUP 1: RESTORATION
SESSIONS 1 & 2
Key Points:
• One of the key issues surrounding restoration and scaling up the volunteer stewardship program is a
lack of the next phase of leadership. How do we get volunteers to take the next step?
• The restoration sequencing chart provides a rudimentary outline for taking a de novo site to one that is
ecologically functional. It is a continuum that changes depending on whether there is significant
contractor investment at some point along the curve. The baseline starting point will shift depending on
a site’s quality and placement on the prioritization list. It is a tool for identifying where it makes sense to
invest, for either increased efficiency or to speed up process.
• There is a potential for walking away from sites if there is a lack of resources. One suggestion is to aim to
keep sites 80% restored versus 100% in order to make them easier to maintain with periodic fire.
• A poverty mindset is discouraging to partners. The focus should be on showcasing how we are
successfully coordinating resources.
• The role of a volunteer steward has changed. Stewards are largely responsible for community building,
and are key to mentoring and securing the next generation of stewardship leaders.
• Nurturing—not necessarily training or advertising—is what creates a new steward. However, the
capacity for 1-on-1 interactions are limited due to the time commitment and the steward’s focus on
running the workday.
• The most successful volunteer sites have more than one leader. This relieves the burden of
responsibility on the steward, and ensures multi-generational support.
• Partnerships with agencies such as the Shedd Aquarium to adopt a site have been successful on a small
scale. We will be exploring the possibility of expanding these types of programs.
• Contracting stewarded volunteer sites to redistribute volunteers to other priority sites in need is
generally not a viable option due to proximity and neighborhood buy-in. However, sites are re-evaluated
when a steward leaves.
• Volunteer engagement is primarily driven by proximity, rather than programmatic outreach. Need to
address language and geographic barriers to getting additional experienced leaders.
• To create a sustainable stewardship program, relationship building and camaraderie between volunteers
and the neighboring community should be enhanced and made equivalent to the work being done on
the land.
• Limitations of school outreach: low bus budget, availability of stewards during the week.
• Experienced individuals are not allowed to “test out” of training programs; this is to ensure that the
individual’s quality of experience and knowledge of policies is to our standards. However, training can
be fast-tracked in certain instances, particularly for partners.
Potential Next Steps/Action Items:
• Increase opportunities for offsite training in urban areas.
• Investigate relationship mapping within the context of existing priority maps and partnerships.
• Emphasize and establish strategies for intentional mentorship between Conservation Corps members,
volunteers, and others.
• Develop strategies for embedding relationship building into volunteer workdays.
• Gauge the interest of stewardship groups to meet to develop best practices and engagement strategies.
• Pursue online training programs for basic volunteer courses.
ATTACHMENTS:
1) Priority Landscape Units (map)
2) Prioritization Subunit Example (map)
3) Restoration Sequencing Chart
4) Goals Chart
6

 Northwest

North

      
   

1-4 MANAGEMENT UNITS

PRIORITY 5 MANAGEMENT 

mmuw Central



ZONES

THESE SITESARE MUCH SMALLER THAN

 

 

THE OVERLYING TRIANGLE
Southwest South
LANDSCAPE UNIT ACIES
Paloa 10.875
Jurgensen 2.417
Busse 1,270
Deer Grove 1,448
Sand Ridge 777
Salt Creek 1,502
Somme 730
342 IMP A Fifteen Landscape Units selected.
Thatcher 435
Saul: Lake 1,151
Tinlay Creek Ravines 3,795
Poplar Creek 578
Theodore Stone 530
Bartel 1,764
Orland 1,121

 

 

 

Restoration Unit

Subunit 2
Subunit 3

 

 

 

 

 

13.wr.

km -- -. .,
?alplz?ig r. .

 

RESTORATION SEQUENCING

28

21

YEAR

 

Structure Composition Function

continue monitoring
enrichment of species
weed surveillance

 

 

fire

  
  
  
   
 
   
    
  

monitor
management
effects

fire

continue weed surveillance

seed w/ conservative
species to enhance {enrich}

Engage volunteers
plan contractor

Evaluate site work fire
identify threats 
recruit potential Initial heavy lifting
SUPPOTT initial weed control (aggressive}

seed collection/'distribution as appropriate

 

fire
install Matrix/ Enrichment seeding/ Conservative Spp.
Remove Weeds/ Filling in gaps/Adding Expansion/Fine tuning
Seven Year Slog $pp./Weed vigilance seeding/Continued

weed scouting

How do we best use a limited amount of dollars and staff time across multiple goals?
*Not all sites can be champions of all 4 goals?

GOAL:

 

PUBLIC VISIBILITY 8: EDUCATION

COMMUNITY CONNECTION 8:
ADVOCACY

GRANTED or DOLLARS 8r
REQUIREMENTS

ECOLOGICAL VALUE 
Plant diversity 8: preservation,
animal habitat

 

0 Typically low ecological value

0 Ideal place to engage youth,
families, schools, community
groups; easy entry ?just drop in

Visible to public

0 Leaders do not need strong
science knowledge so entry into
leadership ranks is quicker

0 Volunteer driven

I Community building within
volunteer group strong bonds
for existing members; difficult
entry for new members

0 Mixed ecological value site is
selected based on volunteer
interest, proximity, etc.

More bang for the buck

Site selection limited by funding
source

Typically long term
requirements for maintenance,
public engagement are borne by
FPCC. What happens after grant
is done?

If existing volunteer group, how
does the grant piece work in?

If no existing volunteer group,
how can we fast track
establishment and how does the
new volunteer group meld into
regional volunteer groups?

I Easy to justify big contractor
dollars spent at these sites

It Contractor dollars can jump
start restoration to get site to a
monitor and maintain phase

Site is not appropriate for novice
volunteers nor for workday
leaders

i If existing volunteer group, do
volunteers? skills and abilities
progress as the site progresses?

- If no existing volunteer group,
how do we attract leaders and
skilled volunteers from other
sites to move to these sites?

 

Current Examples

0 Dan Ryan

4! LaBagh

Irene Hernandez

Growth Sites

0 All 6 Nature Centers

0 Campgrounds

Busy Picnic Site

0 Near FPCC trails

0 Near public roads and highways

 

 

Current Examples

0 Bunker Hill, Linne, Watersmeet,
Blue Star

0 Poplar Creek, Schaumburg Road
Grasslands

Growth Sites
0 None planned

 

Current Examples
0 Orland Grassland
Bartel Grassland

Growth Sites
0 Where opportunity appears

 

Current Examples
0 Zander

Cranberry Slough
0 Deer Grove West

Growth Sites
0 Any of the 30,000 acre sites

 

10

 

10.12.17 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL WORKSHOP
NOTES FROM BREAKOUT GROUP 2: LAND ACQUISITION/LEASE/SALE
SESSIONS 1 & 2
Group 1
Present: Terry Guen, Sylvia Jenkins, Karen Vaughan, Lisa Woolford, Chris Adas, David Kircher, Chris Slattery, Alice
Brandon, Bob Megquier, Delio Calzolari, Dennis White, and Anthony Tindall
Top Concerns:
• Concern public does not value and totally comprehend the important of having 70K acres.
• Concern county residents don’t understand why we would want to add land. Forest Preserves should
market “why” we want to expand, how it benefits nature and residents.
• Tension between acquiring land in the City vs. Suburbs
• 21,000 acre NCCP goal is not linear
• FPCC needs to have a better presence in the city, in order to get City residents to support the Forest
Preserves.
Next Steps:
• Identify opportunities to have a presence in the City. (Ex. Collaboration/Partnership with Chicago Park
District & MWRD)
• Consider opportunities to license land. Do not sell.
Group 2
Present: Wendy Paulson, Cathy Geraghty, Eileen Figel, Rich Gamble, Rob Castaneda, David Kircher, Chris Adas,
Lambrini Lukidis, Benjamin Cox, Dan Huntsha, and Anthony Tindall
Top Concerns:
• Grow vs. Restore (What is the Priority)
• Window of Opportunity
• Presence in the city?
• Additional Acres align with Voter/Strategy
Next Steps:
• Prioritization of acquisitions
• Biggest opportunities (offensive and defensive)
• Develop strategy for next 5K acre acquisition
• Major Donor Campaign
ATTACHMENTS:
1) 2012 Land Acquisition Plan (http://fpdcc.com/downloads/FPDCC2012LandAcquisitionPlanFinal.pdf)
2) Land Acquisition Current Evaluation Process
3) Matteson Development Opportunity

11

   
 
   

 
  
   
 

Current Evaluation
Process



of Cook County

Land Acquisition Plan I Evaluation Guidebook (Proposed Revisions)
Part 1: Property Screening

Conduct Initial
Screening

dun-1::
I Minimum":

6..
I 
I 
I [?int-m:
. Mahdi-run
I 
I mm

 
    
 
      
   
    

Detailed Screening

Conduct Planning
Ma in i?lS stem
I ?f Resource Assessment

. 
Walnut-itin-

FOR SALE

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY

MANHEIM BUSINESS PARK
NEQ OF LINCOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE
MATTESON, LL

 

 

13

FOR SALE MANHEIM BUSINESS PARK

NEQ OF LINCOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY Moh?eson, IL
SITE AERIALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

14

FOR SALE MANHEIM BUSINESS PARK

NEQ OE LINCOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY Ma?eson, IL
SITE AERIALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

15

FOR SALE

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY

 

PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTS SITE

:53] .92 acres (Diwsible)

Zonmg Is a combmaTIon of C-4 HIghway CommerCIal and
Sewlce (heavy commerCIal and lIghT IndusTrIal)

Close To 1-80 I-57
Tax IncenTIve package In place

user Is The Greater ChIcago Auto AucTIon locaTed
on 244.23 acres In The center of The properTy

MalorITy of The propeITy Is currenle beIng farmed

Acreage, Parcel Numbers and Taxes:

7981 Acres, 31 -18-l 02-00l, Taxes ($15,27l .35)

:9255 Acres, 3148-30200], Taxes (53,834.98)

:1 12.60 Acres, 3149402004, Taxes 

:13] .63 Acres, 314102017003, 317197201010,
31-19-201-009, Taxes 

:1533 Acres, 31 -l9-20l Taxes ($660.58)

Askmg $35,000 per acre

Please call for addITIonal InformaTIon



SaInl Francla Rd

Norlh Ave

MANHEIM BUSINESS PARK
NEQ OF LINCOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE

Rd

?ares:

MANHEIM AUTO AUCTION

Hwy

5 RIdgelaIId A (e

Ma?eson, lL

MatTeson

 

 

16

FOR SALE BUSINESS PARK
NEQ OF LINLOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY Ma?eson, IL

CONCEPTUAL

 

 

 



i-ao .
(2.5 mi)

Vollmer Road

AVAILABLE PROPERTY

[?ring
G'eu?r Chicano Auto

Hanem Avenue

2? 2 n.

.


- VRIdgolaHd Avgnuo .

NOT INCLUDED

mom)
m?

InJuSIrval
ON 


I Conmercia'
. .. .. .-
Linclon High?way (Route 30) . 

 

 

 

 



 

17

FOR SALE

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY

 

MANHEIM BUSINESS PARK
NEQ OF LINCOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE
Mo?eson, IL

 

. LAND TITLE SURVEY

 

I

LAM) TITLE SURVEY
?.mnrumIra-CBRE

 

18

FOR SALE MANHEIM BUSINESS PARK

DEVELOPMENT OPPORTU NEQ OF LINCOLN HIGHWAY AND HARLEM AVENUE

Mo?eson, IL

 

 

     

13er St
e4 ?83Id SI
135m a 2
\nati? 
DEMOGRAPHIC a; 3 
SNAPSHOT i;
Bane) ?0 180m 
Qe? Grassland
or? Lanai? and
. Water eserve
Population 44,136 147,624 305,480 if 
3 Forest
3 Preskerves of
Coo County
Average Household 0?
Income $931312 $921638 $891816 
Alli-m 72
. 0?90. . . .
Average Housmg Value $255,459 $254,615 $249,930 Fgankfon ?m
quare 
Ave El I 702m St

2
Pamela D: 
3
CONTACT us - 

 

 

 

MATT ISHIKAWA
First Vice President
+1 630 573 7068
moH.ishikowoC?cbre.com
c: 2077 can; Ln; pas beer obqomgd =rom sources behaved rehabhz we have not Veri?ed .1 a'ld max-3 no gua'ar?fee, warranty or represencohon obouv n. Ar?y prolechons, opumons, assumphons or es'lmu'es used are ?or exompLe on'y and do For

represem fhe currev?v or ?uture per:orma'lce 0? Me property. You and your advisors should conduct careful, .ndeper?dem oi the proper?y vo ce'e'ml'le 10 your sahst'adlon ore of we propeny for you Feeds. P?o?os herern are 1h? property

0: Iheur respechve owners and L52 0? N?ese Images wnhom u-e express wrmen consent o? the owner .5 promoned CBQE ar?d the CEQE Logo are service morxs of BRE, Inc and or us o? ?Iaied 0' related companies In Unned Slow; and oWer counmes omer
morks displayed 0" Ith documeni are the property 0? We? respechve owners



 

19

10.12.17 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL WORKSHOP
NOTES FROM BREAKOUT GROUP 3: MAKING PRESERVES WELCOMING & ACCESSIBLE
SESSIONS 1 & 2
Key Points:
• When measuring outcomes we need to have both quantitative and qualitative metrics, we want to tell a
compelling narrative to drive more people to action and capture people’s attitudes and how they
appreciate and value the preserves and what their ecological literacy is.
• Term ‘users’ is too broad, there needs to be a component of diversity so we can reach all populations.
Define what users are by different categories which will make it easier to measure and drive outcomes
(i.e. parents, families, volunteers, students...etc.). Should consider replacing the term ‘users’ with
participants or other word.
• In order to reach a diverse group of users the Preserves and partners need to be more intentional and
sensitive about communicating why people need the Preserves and why the Preserves need them
while balancing the needs of people with the needs of the Preserves.
• People’s time and attention is constantly being competed for, do we know who our competitors are and
can we make competitors into collaborators?
• Work on defining outcomes and prioritizing strategies based on the best return on investment and
measures of success. Dollars are driven by the number of participants that will be impacted.
• In order to better connect communities with the Preserves there needs to be more consideration in
making the Preserves accessible outside of just physical barriers including language, location of events,
and volunteer classes.
• Instead of focusing on more users, advocates, funding and qualitative measures the focus should be on
making more people aware of the Preserves, whether or not they are actual users and communicating
the key role the Preserves play in our communities and the positive impact they have on our region (i.e.
climate change, ecosystem services, value proposition).
• In order to measure awareness of the Forest Preserves we need to be part of regional opinion/attitude
surveys and insert the Preserves into region’s vocabulary.
• “Picnics are a great gateway drug” you do not want to disparage picnic goers you want to embrace them
and know that it is enough that people know about the Preserves, they just need a level of pride and
ownership. #my/your/ourforestpreserves.
• How do we help recognize the Preserves as an institution like the Art Institute or an iconic element of
Chicagoland like the Lakefront? Should we consider a mascot to create more awareness?
• Using the Cook County identifier as a brand has many negative connotations and people are not always
aware of jurisdictional boundaries, should we be utilizing ‘Chicago’ in our advertisement of the
Preserves or focus on just ‘forest preserves’?
• Consider creating itineraries/staycations or better define how different users can find their adventure in
the Forest Preserves, need to appeal to all types of users.
• Need to think more about place making and meeting people where they are through pop-up prairies,
bus stops, vacant lot conversions (Neighborspace).
Actions/Next Steps:
• Provide a document or summary on ADA plans and progress as a reference to determine what we are
accomplishing and what the milestones are.
• Give Council members tasks that connect their communities to the Forest Preserves through awareness
and direct access to sites (i.e. elevator speech, leading tours, communicating to networks).
• Use gateway sites as a tool to create awareness of the Forest Preserves so users can share their
experience, pride and adventure with others.
• Discuss and define welcoming, awareness, diversity, audience – what does it mean, how is it defined,
where do we start.
• Formalize process for inviting and encouraging #myforestpreserves bloggers, nature ambassador
volunteers, pop beauty patch announcements.
20

 10.12.17 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL WORKSHOP
NOTES FROM BREAKOUT GROUP 4.1: MARKETING & OUTREACH
SESSIONS 1/2/3
Potential Next Steps/Action Items:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Social Media Filters & Hashtags
Focus on Local
Connects to larger Cook County
Celebrate locally to connect globally
Meet with influences locally
Local storytelling/media market
Church Group Outreach
Celebrate those users of the Forest Preserves in a public way (ex. Celebrate picnic goes that have
been reserving the same location for 20 years.)
Endorsements from Cubs/Blackhawks/Bulls
Metra Advertisements
Libraries are hubs for families
Calendars that go to schools
Road Show

ATTACHMENTS:
4) Messaging house

21

 DRIVERS: Learning Strategies Principles

used to foster connections to the Forest Preserves

 

cess.

 

       

Empathy for living things

Taking action that leads to a sustainable relationship with nature

Learner Centered: Empowers the learner as an active participant.
Relevant: Ensures relevance to people of all cultures and backgrounds.
Fun and Engaging: Provides messages in a fun, engaging way.

Creative: Provides opportunities for guests? creative expression

Builds Competence: Builds confidence in the ability to make a difference.

DRIVERS: Assets

accessible resources

Understanding and valuing connections between you, your life, and your environment

First-Hand Experience: Provides opportunities for direct exploration with nature, real animals, and/ or the scientific pro-

Aesthetlc Connections: Connects to people?s sense of wonder and beauty in our programs, site experiences and facilities.

Scientific Excellence: Ensures scientific excellence and exploration as a foundation for our programs, exhibits and sites.

Conservation Literacy and Action: Empowers people and communities with knowledge, awareness and skills that encour-
age taking action on behalf of the environment.

 
   

 

Bring thsez?seerves to Bring Peril: the Pre Teach People Community Assets
Ministers Breakfasts Ecosystems (Forest, Prai- Camping Leadership lm- NCCP Plan Park Districts
Tabling events in com- ries, Savannahs, Wood- mersion Course NCCP Council County Agencies
munities lands, Community Leadership Board of Commis- Volunteers (Stewards
Programs/Activities in Rivers, Lakes) Workshops sioners Nature Ambassa-
communities Nature Centers Stewardship Training Community Lead- dors)
In School Programs Public Programs Restoration Training ers Chicago Zoological
Conference Presenta- School Programs Trail Watch Mayors Society
tions Youth Programs Conservation@Home Council members Chicago Botanical
Staff expertise re: Na- Campgrounds Nature Ambassador Gardens
ture (Wildlife, disease, Trails Conservation Corp. Youth Development
fun facts, wow facts, Picnic Groves Youth Outdoor Ambassa- Groups
how do i deal with this Aquatic Centers dors Jobs Programs
facts, etc.) Golf Courses Citizen Scientist Tourism Bureaus
Documentary Tree Top Course Chambers of Com-
Partner Programs in Paddling merce
Community Fishing Media outlets
Chicago Zoological 50- Seasonal Special Events Neighborhood Organi-
ciety Volunteer Activities zations
Chicago Botanical ar- Outdoor Adventure 
dens Mighty Acorns
Partner 
Cultural Events (Pow Wow/
Rendezvous)
Chicago Zoological Society
Chicago Botanical Gardens

 

 

 

 

22

Don?t you sometimes just want to escape?

Explore the natural beauty of Cook County for an hour, a day or even a night.

When you?re surrounded by 70,000 acres of wild and wonderful, there?s no better place to feel free.

  
      

It?s a place where you can create your
own adventure.

In our Forest Preserves, you can hold-
ly explore more than 300 miles of
trails or join a group learning archery
- the adventure is yours to create
within 70,000 at six Nature Centers,
five campgrounds, rivers and lakes,

and 10 gold courses.

- Biking - Boatlng - Camping
- Celebrations - Fishing - Golf
0 Nature Centers - Pavilions
- - Traditions
Zip Lining

 

 

It?s a place where plants and
animals thrive.

FOUNDATION NARRATIVE

We protect native species and their
homes. Volunteers help us conserve,
preserve and restore - and no, those
are not all the same. Enter this world
of prairies, woodlands and wetlands,

and see why we?re so committed to

nature.

FOUNDATION PROOF POINTS

- Conserva?on - 
- Restoration oAnimal Habitat
- Migratory Corridor - Preservation
Professional Expertise
Rare Endangered Species
Stewardship Volunteerism

MESSAGING PRIORITIES

 

23

 

 

KEY MESSAGES - THE ROOMS

You won?t find a more peaceful place to
make ourselves and our

communities healthier.

The Forest Preserves are more than a
getaway. Whether you exercise here, or
just breathe the fresh air, they can
make you stronger. Across cities and
suburbs, they help keep the air, water
and ecosystem In balance.

Personal Health
Economic Value and Quality of Life
Reglonal Health (clean water, storm-
water retention, air quality)
Agency Health (fiscal, resource
management)
Proximity

 

10.12.17 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL WORKSHOP
NOTES FROM BREAKOUT GROUP 4.2: LEGISLATIVE STRATEGIES
SESSIONS 1/2/3
Key Points:
• A property tax freeze would be negative for any potential Forest Preserve budget initiatives and should
be opposed.
• Potential legislative options being investigated include:
1) Levy increase by referendum
2) Levy increase by statute
3) Bond on behalf of the FPCC
4) Bond on behalf of the Chicago Botanic Garden
5) Bond on behalf of the Brookfield Zoo
6) Break out Zoo and Garden
7) Exclude pension from levy
• Bonds can be issued collectively, or can be separated by organization (i.e. Zoo, Garden). Bonds must be
used carefully, as they may actually increase the operating budget depending on how they’re spent.
• The State of Illinois currently utilizes a constitutionally-prescribed flat tax, rather than a progressive
income tax which would give the Forest Preserves and other organizations more flexibility. The Forest
Preserves are not a home rule organization, and thus have less freedom to change tax rates. Home rule
units are the one’s expanding the taxes to inappropriate levels.
• Staff are not permitted to directly solicit political support for any particular legislative option. The Forest
Preserve Foundation, the Council, and other PR firms may be able to engage with constituents on the
FPCC’s behalf.
• The FPCC makes up 11% of the County, but only receives 1% of the tax revenue.
• Building a coalition with other regional forest preserves to push for a statutory revision is an option, as
coordination between many parties generally gets more attention from lawmakers. However, doing so
would also attract any pre-existing opposition from other counties were we to coordinate with on a
larger scale.
• Need 51% of the voting body to pass a referendum. Rather than wasting resources on general marketing
campaigns, it may be more efficient to invest in statistics on registered voters and turnout so we can get
a more accurate idea of what areas need more targeted advocacy.
• People support forest preserves overwhelmingly, but they won’t vote to increase taxes. 88% approval
already, how many additional people (22%) will actually join? Need to focus on changing peoples’
attitudes towards taxes, rather than support for preserves.
• Messaging is key. With all the recent weather events, we need to advertise the stormwater and disaster
prevention benefits of the Forest Preserves. Additionally, there are different messengers for different
groups.
Potential Next Steps/Action Items:
• Establish a plan for rallying and establishing solidarity amongst partners in the event of a referendum
• Investigate and brief on rules for advocating for legislation
• Investigate the viability of establishing a coalition of forest preserves for a statutory revision.
• Develop a legislative plan, communicating probabilities and timelines for various legislative options.
• Provide the Council with talking point on the politics of forest preserve legislation (i.e. actual annual tax
contributions, % comparison to other counties, benefits of the FPCC, etc.) so they can be more informed
advocates.

24

 10.12.17 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL WORKSHOP
NOTES FROM BREAKOUT GROUP 4.3: ENGAGING CIVIC LEADERS & OTHER STAKEHOLDERS
SESSIONS 1/2/3
Key Points:
• People do not have to visit the Forest Preserves to recognize the value in them, regardless if they are
active users, volunteers or supporters. Comparable to the National Parks model.
• The Preserves are part of the fabric of the region, there is a strong environmental argument for people
in the City of Chicago with the heat island effect. Without the Forest Preserves what would be in there
place? Many people understand the value of water as a resource, but do not understand the importance
of the Forest Preserves and conservation.
• To build awareness you should consider having information sessions about the Forest Preserves and
bring in different groups, bloggers, and others who can spread the word.
• Council members can keep reminding their representatives and commissioners about the importance of
the Forest Preserves, act as cheerleaders for the Preserves.
• Council members can take friends and members of their networks on tours of the Forest Preserves,
potentially supported by Preserves’ staff members.
• Provide a presentation, talking points, consolidated messaging and elevator speech to Council members
and other partners to use. Presentations should show results overtime and what has been accomplished
by the Forest Preserves historically.
• Consider presenting to civic groups like the City Club of Chicago, Union League Club, and Rotary Club.
• Council members, partners and staff should provide free tours to commissioners, elected officials,
tourism representatives, faith groups, doctors, and their networks of the Preserves.
• Consider being part of Openhouse Chicago or host something similar in the Preserves.
• Need to build a foundation of influencers and determine what the general ask is as well as smaller more
specific asks. Different messages should be used for different groups.
• Utilize Nature Ambassadors to build awareness about the Preserves, encourage Council members to be
trained as Ambassadors.
• Council members, partners, and others should consider adding something to their email signatures,
signing people up for the Forest Preserves’ newsletter, or commit to tell at least five people about the
Preserves.
• Target picnic goers by offering a discount (5%) off the cost of a permit if they sit through a 15 minute
presentation/film about the Preserves. They could receive additional discounts if they pass out or email
literature/info on the Preserves, or provide a list of emails from their picnics to be added to the
Newsletter. Need to think creatively about how to reach people.
• Consider ‘micro-preserves’ in City of Chicago locations to serve as gateways to the Forest Preserves for
people who are unable to travel.
Actions/Next Steps:
• Develop talking points, presentation, and pitch/elevator speech to provide to Council members,
partners and staff so everyone is using the same messages in building awareness.
• Ask Council members and partners to deliver messages to elected officials and their communities.
• Ask Council members and partners to lead a set amount of tours or presentations per year to their
networks.
• Develop a strategy for communicating these messages through Council members and partners.

25

 