Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee
Wednesday, October 7, 2015

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-5693
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 9/9/2015

15-5254
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, LUIS ARROYO JR, BRIDGET GAINER, JOHN A. FRITCHEY,
ROBERT STEELE, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS, JERRY BUTLER
and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
REPLICA FIREARMS AND PAINT PELLET GUN ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 54, Article XII of the Cook
County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
ARTICLE XII. REPLICA FIREARMS AND PAINT PELLET GUNS
Sec. 54-420. Replica guns.
Page 1 of 3

 (a) Title. This division shall be known and may be cited as the “Replica Firearms and Paint Pellet Gun
Ordinance” of Cook County, Illinois.
(b) Purpose and Policy. Like other major cities across America, the Cook County Government faces the ongoing
challenge of combating the scourge of gun violence in our communities. Many imitation and replica firearms are
manufactured in a manner that makes them nearly indistinguishable from working firearms; and imitation and
replica firearms pose the greatest threat to mistakes in the use of force by police. Several foreign manufactured
mobile phone cases which have the appearance of 9mm handguns have recently appeared for sale on several
online retail outlets, and the one "Gun Grip Case" features the grip of an actual gun and trigger guard attached to
the housing of a phone cover. When placed in a pocket, this product is indistinguishable from a working
handgun. Law enforcement officials from New York, New Jersey and Michigan among others have advised
people not to purchase or use this product. Numerous incidents have been reported by law enforcement officers
across the country who have mistakenly identified imitation or replica firearms to be working handguns.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, possess, conceal, use, sell, give away or otherwise transfer,
or to engage in the business of selling or to exhibit for sale, a replica firearm, paint pellet or paint pellet gun in
Cook County, except as provided in subsection (e) of this section.
(d) Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Paint pellet means a pellet or projectile of paint which explodes upon impact.
Paint pellet gun means any firearm, toy firearm or toy in the nature of a firearm which is powered by
compressed gas and which fires paint pellets.
Replica firearm means any device, object or facsimile made of plastic, wood, metal or any other material, that a
person could reasonably perceive as an actual firearm but that is incapable of being fired or discharged,
including, but not limited to mobile phone cases, lighters, and cameras, except that the term shall not include
any replica of an antique firearm. Each such replica firearm shall have as an integral part, permanently affixed, a
blaze orange plug inserted in the barrel of such replica firearm. Such plug shall be recessed no more than six
millimeters from the muzzle end of the barrel of such firearm.
(e) Exceptions. The manufacture, marketing, distribution, sale and possession of replica firearms are permitted if
the devices are manufactured, marketed, distributed, sold or held solely for subsequent transportation in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce. Such devices shall not be displayed to the general public or sold for
other use in the city. The use or possession of a paint pellet or paint pellet gun is permitted if the use or
possession is solely within premises licensed as a public place of amusement; or if the use or possession is
solely for the purpose of transporting the paint pellet or paint pellet gun to or from those premises by the
licensee or agent or employee of the licensee, or by a common carrier, for purposes of initial delivery, repair or
disposal of the paint pellet or paint pellet gun.
(f) Violation. Any person who violates the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than $100.00 nor more than $750.00 for each offense. Any such violation may also be punishable as a
misdemeanor by incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for up to six months under the
procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code as amended, and in the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure, Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 38, Sections 100-1 et seq. (1985), as amended, in a
separate proceeding. All actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions
subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 110, Section
1-101, et seq. (1985), as amended. Each purchase, use, sale, gift or transfer of any such replica firearm, paint
pellet or paint pellet gun shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense, and each day a person unlawfully
engages in the business of selling or exhibits for sale any such replica firearm, paint pellet or paint pellet gun
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.

Page 2 of 3

 Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 9/9/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee

______________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Moore
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

 