Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, January 13, 2016

9:30AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

Also Present:

Commissioners Daley, Garcia and Murphy (3)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in Accordance
with Cook County Code.
I. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

2. Maggie Perales, South West Organizing Project
3. Cindy Magallanes RN, Saint Anthony Hospital I Wellness Center
4. Eric Arnaud, Communities United
5. Diane Limas, Communities United

16-0994
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/29/2015
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Committee
Minutes be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

 16-0690
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS
G. GARCIA, and LARRY SUFFREDIN County Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY TASK FORCE TO RESEARCH THE EXPANSION OF
AFFORDABLE AND QUALITY HEALTHCARE TO UNINSURED RESIDENTS OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6 (a); and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to their home rule powers, the Cook County Commissioners may exercise any power and
perform any function relating to their governments and affairs, including the power to regulate for the protection
of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare; and,
WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby find
that Cook County shall explore ways in which affordable healthcare can be expanded to all Cook County residents;
and,
WHEREAS, after the Affordable Care Act, 9 percent of Cook County residents remain uninsured for various
reasons, including affordability, program eligibility and program awareness; and,
WHEREAS, nearly 73 percent of Illinois' uninsured eligible for Get Covered Illinois, the state's health insurance
marketplace, live and work in metropolitan Chicago; and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Health and Hospital System spen,t approximately $340 million of uncompensated
care in 2014 for individuals who visited the emergency room either without insurance or otherwise were unable to
pay; and,
WHEREAS, visiting the emergency room is often the only option for the uninsured even in instances of
non-emergencies; and,
WHEREAS, studies show an estimated $18 billion could be saved annually if patients used primary or
preventive health care rather than emergency rooms; and,
WHEREAS, providing structured access to healthcare for the uninsured residents of Cook County has the potential
to save critical taxpayers dollars.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of Commissioners create a task force
entitled the Cook County Task Force on Health Care Accessibility to make recommendations to the President and
the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as well as the Cook County Health and Hospital System regarding the
expansion of quality and affordable healthcare to the uninsured residents of Cook County.
BE IT FURTJIER RESOLVED,. th.at the advisory task. force is specifical,ly charged with 1ssumg
recommendations on the following topics:
a.

Current Policies and Procedures. This analysis shall address the success and challenges of current
policies and procedures of Cook County Government and the Cook County Health and Hospital System
in regards to access and delivery of healthcare services for uninsured Cook County residents.

b.

Healthcare Accessibility Innovation. This analysis shall focus on current best practices and proposals
from similar public health systems across the United States.
Page 2of6

 .•

c.

Public Health Measures. This analysis shall focus on the availability of healthcare services for the
uninsured and their families in Cook County. T.his shall include capacity and funding, and ways in which
the Cook County Health and Hospital System can coordinate with other government agencies and
not-for-profit entities to offer healthcare delivery programs for the uninsured and their families.

d. Public Awareness. This analysis shall focus on potential education and community awareness campaigns
targeted for the uninsured and their families; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the advisory task force shall consist of:
a.

The Cook County Board President or her designee; the Chairman of the Cook County Workforce, Housing
and Community Development Committee; the Chainnan of the Cook County Business and Economic
Development Committee and the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
Committee.

b. Cook County Health and Hospital System staff members as determined by the Cook County Health and
Hospital System Chief Executive Officer or his designee.
c.

Community-based advocacy organizations, medical professionals, local healthcare industry professionals
and advocates of access to healthcare campaigns, and other government officials as invited by the task
force members from the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Task Force on Healthcare Accessibility shall report its findings
to the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners six months from the
passage of this resolution.
Legislative History: 12/16/15 Board of Commissionersreferred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Resolution
be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

PROPOSED SUBSITUTE TO ITEM 16-0690
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN
P. DALEY, DEBORAH SIMS and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY TASK FORCE TO RESEARCH THE EXPANSION OF
AFFORDABLE AND QUALITY HE.ALTH CARE TO UNINSURED RESIDENTS OF CQOK COUNTY

.

~

'

.

.

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government pursuant.to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Arti~le VII, Section (j (a); and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to their home rule powers, the Cook County Commissioners may exercise any power and
perform any function relating .to their governments and .affairs, including the power to regulate for the protection of
the public health,' safety, morals, and welfare; and,
·
·
·
Page 3 of 6

 WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners would like
to explore ways in which affordable health care can be expanded to all Cook County residents; and,
WHEREAS, the mission of the Cook County Health and Hospital System is to facilitate, support, and demonstrate
excellence and safety to those served in a respectful and professional manner; and,

WHEREAS, after the Affordable Care Act, 9 percent of Cook County residents remain uninsured for various
reasons, including affordability, program eligibility and program awareness; and,
WHEREAS, nearly 73 percent of Illinois' uninsured eligible for Get Covered Illinois, the state's health insurance
marketplace, live and work in metropolitan Chicago; and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Health and Hospital System spent approximately $340 million of uncompensated
care in 2014 for individuals who visited the emergency room either without insurance or otherwise were unable to
pay; and,
WHEREAS, visiting the emergency room is often the only option for the uninsured even in instances of nonemergencies; and,
WHEREAS, studies show an estimated $18 billion nationally could be saved annually if patients used primary or
preventive health care rather than emergency rooms; and,
WHEREAS, thousands of Cook .County households include both insured and uninsured members and providing
health care access to all household members would improve population health; and
WHEREAS, providing structured access to health care for the uninsured residents of Cook County has the potential
to save critical taxpayers dollars.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby
create a task force entitled the Cook County Task Force on Health Care Accessibility to make recommendations to
the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as well as the Cook County Health and Hospital
System regarding the expansion of quality and affordable health care to the uninsured residents of Cook County.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the advisory task force is specifically charged with issuing recommendations
on the following topics:
(a) Current Policies and Procedures. This analysis shall address the success and challenges of current
policies and procedures of Cook County Government and the Cook County Health and Hospital System in
regards to access and delivery of health care services for uninsured Cook County residents. Additionally,
the analysis will also include input from Cook County community groups and community surveys
commissioned by the Health Communities Cook County (HC3) coalition.
(b) Health Care Accessibility Innovation. This analysis shall focus on current best practices and proposals
from similar public health systems across the United States.
( c) Strategies to Expand and" Increase· Access to Health Care Services. This analysis shall" focus on the
availability of health care services for the uninsured and their families in Cook County. This shall include
· capacity and funding, and ways in which the Cook County Health and Hospital System can coordinate with
other government agencies and not-for-profit entities to offer health care delivery programs for the
uninsured and their families. Some health care services particularly challenging for the uninsured to access ·
and must be addressed in the analysis include: ongoing chronic disease management, treatment of life- ·
threatening conditions, care transitiOns and follow up, behavioral health, oral health and ·affordable
prescription medicine.
Page 4of6

 (d) Strategies to Improve Health. This analysis shall identify available financial and other related resources
and systems to better coordinate health care services, provide preventative health care services, and provide
health education for the uninsured and their families in Cook County; and
(e} Financial Assistance and Protection. This analysis shall assess the current financial assistance programs
established by safety net healthcare providers in Cook County, identify any financial hardships the
uninsured may face, and propose strategies to reduce the likelihood that the uninsured will experience
financial hardship in accessing needed health care services; and

(f) Public Awareness. This analysis shall focus on potential education and community awareness campaigns
targeted for the uninsured and their families, with specific consideration of how community-based
organizations and community health workers can address the cultural and linguistic needs of the uninsured
and their families; and
(g) Potential Cost Savings. This analysis shall consider the potential cost savings of improving health care
access for the uninsured, inducing cost analysis commissioned by the HC3 coalition and other community
partners.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the advisory task force shall consist of:
(a) The Cook County Board President or her designee; the Chairman of the Cook County Workforce, Housing
and Community Development Committee; the Chairman of the Cook County Business and Economic
Development Committee and the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
Committee.

(b) Cook County Health and Hospital System sfaff members as 'determined by the Cook County Health and
Hospital System Chief Executive Officer or his designee.
( c) At least five representatives from community-based advocacy organizations as determined by HC3
coalition and Cook County task force members.
(d) At least one representative from a Cook County Federally Qualified Health Center.
(e) At least one representative from a Cook County medical professional association.

(f) At least one representative from a non-profit hospital system.
(g) Other members as agreed to unanimously by the task force members required under this resolution.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Task Force on Health Care Accessibility shall report its
findings to the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners three months
from the passage of this resolution and will work to implement the key findings as soon as feasible.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Vice Chairman Boykin, that this Resolution
be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (I)

Page 5 of 6

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chaitman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chainnan Gainer, Vice Chairman Boykin, Commissioners Sims and Suffredin (4)

Absent:

Commissioner Tobolski (1)

Respectfully submitted,

Cl

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 6of6

 