Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice- President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Monday, May 2, 2011

8:00 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 8:00
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; and Terrence J. O'Brien

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
11-0557

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Terrence J. O’Brien, there will be a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago on Monday, May 2,
2011 at 8:00 a.m. in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
The purpose of the meeting is to consider candidates to fill the
impending vacancy in the office of the Executive Director of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago.
The interviews will be done in Executive Session.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Kathleen Therese
Meany, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

May 2, 2011

Executive Session
A motion was made that an executive session be held to consider candidates to fill
the impending vacancy in the office of the Executive Director.
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Kathleen
Therese Meany, that this Motion be Adopted. The motion carried by the
following roll call vote:
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

Recess and Reconvene
Terrence J. O'Brien called for the meeting to recess and reconvene Tuesday,
May 3, 2011 at 8:30 a.m.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Kathleen Therese Meany, seconded by Frank Avila, that
this Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll
call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this May
2, 2011, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
May 3, 2011

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 