Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Homeland Security and Emergency Management Committee
Wednesday, July 23, 2014

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting
agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise hen
the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall notuse vulgar,
abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in
expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
14-3553
Presented by: MICHAEL MASTERS, Executive Director, Department of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING AND VARIOUS
AGREEMENTS

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 26 Emergency Management
and Services, Section 26-35 of the Cook County Code of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 26-35. Agreements with other political subdivisions and nongovernmental organizations.
(a) Mutual Aid, Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements. The Executive Director of DHSEM may
negotiate Mutual Aid Agreements and Intergovernmental or Interagency Agreements with other
political subdivisions and taxing districts of the State as well as agreements with nongovernmental
organizations, provided such agreements are consistent with the State Emergency Operations Plan
and emergency management program. but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been
approved by the County Board. Negotiated Mutual Aid Agreements, Intergovernmental Agreements
or Interagency Agreements shall be approved by the County Board in advance of execution by the
Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be authorized to enter into Memoranda of
Understanding, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties thereto with respect to preparedness and
response activities within Cook County without further approval by the Board.
(b) Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding Related to Training and Curriculum Development.
The Executive Director or his/her designee is authorized to negotiate and execute agreements or
Memoranda of Understanding (“MOU”) with other political subdivisions or governmental units,
nonprofit entities, and volunteer groups, and private parties for the purpose of procuring and
providing training and curriculum development for first responder agencies and other stakeholders
throughout Cook County, as appropriated, and including provisions providing indemnification. Said
agreements or MOUs shall not require additional authorization from the County Board when limited
to the purpose of procuring and/or providing training and/or curriculum development for first
responder agencies and other stakeholders.
(c) Agreements and/or Memoranda of Understanding to Advance Additional Partnership Opportunities.
In order to facilitate and advance additional partnership opportunities to effectuate effective and
efficient emergency response and coordination activities, the Executive Director shall be authorized
to negotiate and execute MOUs or agreements with other political subdivisions, governmental units,
nonprofit entities, volunteer groups and private parties, setting forth the agreed roles of the parties
thereto with respect to preparedness and response activities within Cook County, without further
approval by the County Board. These agreements or MOUs shall not bind Cook County to
indemnification provisions, nor shall such MOUs obligate Cook County to make any direct
payments to a third party. Said agreements or MOUs may not require a separate Mutual Aid
Agreement, Intergovernmental Agreement or Interagency Agreements; however, should the
agreement or MOU require the County to indemnify the other party, County Board authorization
will be required in advance of execution.

Page 2 of 3

 (d) The Executive Director shall further maintain a record of all agreements or MOUs entered into
pursuant to the authority afforded in subsection (b) and (c) and make available to the President or
the Cook County Board of Commissioners a quarterly report listing the various agreements or
MOUs entered into pursuant to this authority at their request
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History:

6/18/14

Board of Commissioners referred to the Homeland Security and

Emergency Management Committee

______________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Tobolski
Gainer
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

 