Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Chairman of Finance Frank
Avila, Commissioner Timothy Bradford, Vice President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos
Thursday, November 5, 2015

1:00 PM

Board Room

DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET PRESENTATIONS

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the meeting to order at 1:00
p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia
M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

1

Meeting Minutes

15-0932

November 5, 2015

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos and presiding Kari K.
Steele, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Employment, a Special
Meeting will be held on Thursday, November 5, 2015, at 1:00 p.m. in the Board
Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of this meeting is to present and accept the 2016 Executive
Director’s Budget Recommendations and related changes.
The Executive Director’s Budget Recommendations is available for review on
the District’s website, www.mwrd.org <http://www.mwrd.org>.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Timothy Bradford, that
this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus
of ayes - No nays

2

15-1242

Authority to Accept the Executive Director’s 2016 Budget Recommendations
and the Attached Changes

Attachments:

2016 BF-19 Attachment.pdf
2016 ED Budget Presentation Final
2016 Departmental presentations
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Barbara J.
McGowan, that this Agenda Item be Adopted. The motion carried by the
following roll call vote:

Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia
M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 Special Meeting

Meeting Minutes

November 5, 2015

Open Discussion
1) BF-20, Frank Avila recommended Internship positions be increased to 50 and
Cynthia M. Santos recommended $100,000 be added to the internship program and
suggested more apprenticeship opportunities be made available
2) Mariyana T. Spyropoulos requested information on the number of hits received on
mobile applications

Adjournment
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Barbara J.
McGowan, that this Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the
following roll call vote: /s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia
M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this November 5, 2015, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
November 5, 2015

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

 