 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Minutes Finance Committee

Friday, November 13, 2015

Present

Absent

1:00 PM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569

118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo. Boykin, Butler, ritchey, Gainer,

Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (16)

Commissioner Steele (1)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107 






mgwm?o

George Blakemore Concer

William Kyle

Diana Hackbarth

Mark Peysakhovich

Delphine Cherry and Anna Astalas
Darvin Worlds and Patrick Covington
Margaret Sents

Mark Maher

Betty Boles

. Edward K. Grasse
. Marc Gordon

. Jim Garrett

. Elise Houren

. Jack A Johnson

. Michael Ciaccio

Concerned Citizen
Concerned Citizen
Respiratory Health Association
American Heart Association
Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence
The Alumni Association
People for a Safer Society
Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters
SEIU Local 73
Illinois Assn of Defense Trial Counsel
Illinois Hotel Lodging Association
Chicago Southland Convention Business Bureau
Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce
Choose Chicago

Teamster Joint Council 25

16. Dr. Phalese Binion (Present in support: Alfred Wheeler, Mary Sykes, Tracy Sykes, Sarah Hunt)

17. Zorian Carter (President in support: Greg Forman, Julie Collier)
18'. John Moore Central State Ticket Broker Association
19. John Coakley Concerned Citizen
20. Dave Parulo Meet Chicago Northwest
21. Todd Vandermyde Legislative Liaison
22. Ben Reyes Colossal Vape
23. Reid Nuttal Cool Clouds Vapor Shop
24. Michael Flourncy Smith Amundsen LLP Chains
15-5775

Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT, COURT AUTOMATION FEES

WHEREAS, Illinois Complied Statutes, 705 ILCS 105/27.3a, authorizes county boards to require the Clerk of the
Circuit Court to collect a court automation fee to be used to establish and maintain an automated record keeping

system; and

WHEREAS, on October 3, 1988, the Cook County Board of Commissioners adopted County Ordinance 88-0?45
(Ordinances of Cook County, Chapter 13, section 13-186.1-186.4) establishing the Court Automation Fund and
authorizing the Clerk of the Circuit Court to collect an additional court ?ling fee of $3.00; and

WHEREAS, Section 1 of PA. 87-670, effective January 1, 1992, amended Illinois Compiled Statues, 705 ILCS
105/27.3a, by increasing the fees authorized to be collected to an amount not to exceed $5.00; and

WHEREAS, on February 3, 1992, the Cook County Board of Commissioners amended County Ordinance 92-0-15
increasing the fee to $5.00; and

WHEREAS, on August 15, 2005, Public Act 094-0596, approved by the State Legislature and signed by the
Governor, amended 705 ILCS 105/27.3a, increasing the maximum court automation fee to $15.00; and

WHEREAS, on December 27, 2013, Public Act 098-0606, approved by the State Legislature and signed by the
Governor, amended 705 ILCS 105/27.3 a, increasing the maximum court automation fee to $15.00 $25.00; and

WHEREAS, the Clerk of the Circuit Court has represented that the Automation Fees be increased as authorized by
the Legislature excluding minor traf?c cases satis?ed without a court appearance; and

Page 2 of 54

WHEREAS, the Clerk of the Circuit Court has represented that the costs associated with automating the records

of the Circuit Court include procuring a new case management svstem for all case tvpes civil. criminal. trati'ic.
domestic violence. iuvcnilc. and child protection; a svstem which has not been replaced i_n_its entirety since the
?rst svstem was implemented in 1970; procuring the equipment needed to retro?t all courtrooms to electronic
courtrooms in order to utilize the current imaging and electronic liling technology and meet one of the
Dre-requisites needed to obtain approval from the Administrative Of?ce of the Illinois Courts to make
electronic records the of?cial court records, thus eliminating the need for paper tiles: and to create and equip a
customer service computer resource center to allow individuals representing themselves to have access to
electronic records. thus providing fair access to iustice. These needs iustifv and necessitate the increased fee; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County desire to increase the fee as requested; and to stay the
same upon approval for at least the next 4 years.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees, Sec. 32-1 of the Cook
County Code are amended as Follows:

Sec. 18-33. Court automation fee imposed.

De?nitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms, words and/or phrases used in this
section shall be ascribed the same meaning as those terms defined or used by 705 ILCS 105/27.3a, et seq.

(fees for automated record keeping).
Imposed.

(1) In accordance with the provisions set forth in 705 ILCS 105/27.3a et seq.
(fees for automated record keeping), a court automation fee is hereby imposed
in the County. The Clerk of the Circuit Court of the County shall charge and
collect a court automation fee as set out in Section 32-1 from each party in all
civil cases and by the defendant in any felony, traf?c misdemeanor, municipal
ordinance, or conservation case upon a judgment of guilty or grant of
supervision, provided that the record keeping system which processes the case
category for which the fee is charged is automated or has been approved for
automation by the County Board.

(2) Such fee shall be paid at the time of ?ling the ?rst pleading, for all civil
w, paper or other appearance ?led by each party. No additional fee shall
be required if more than one party is presented in a single pleading, paper or
other appearance.

Collection and enforcement.

(1) In accordance with the provisions set forth in 705 ILCS 105/27.3a et seq.,
such court automation fee shall be charged and collected by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court. Such fee shall be collected in the manner in which all other fees
or costs are collected.

Page 3 of 54

(2) This fee shall be in addition to all other fees and charges of such clerk, and
assessable as costs, and shall be remitted by such clerk to the County
Treasurer, to be retained in a special fund designated as the court automation
fund. The fund shall be audited by the County Auditor, and the Board shall
make expenditure from the fund in payment of any cost related to the
automation of court records, including hardware, software, research and
development costs and personnel related thereto, provided that the
expenditure is approved by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and by the Chief
Judge of the Circuit Court or designate.

(3) This fee shall not be charged in any matter coming to any such clerk on
change of venue, nor in any proceeding to review the decision of any
administrative of?cer, agency or body. The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall
not collect the fees herein authorized from any of?cial, department or agency
of County Government where the services provided by the Clerk of the
Circuit Court are for of?cial purposes. Any County of?cial, department or
agency requesting services from the Clerk of the Circuit Court pursuant to this
provision shall be required to indicate that the request is made for "Of?cial
Purposes". The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall establish and keep a record of
the fee exempt services rendered to each County of?cial, department or
agency. Such records shall be available on request, to the Chief Financial
Of?cer of the County.

CHAPTER 32 FEES
Sec. 32-1 Fee schedule
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:

CHAPTER 18, COURTS
18-34 Court automation fee 46:00 25.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on December 1, 2015 in accordance with the effective date of
Public Act 098-0606.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners: Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Morrison, Murphy,
Silvestri and Tobolski (9)

Nays: Chairman Daley, Commissioners Boykin, Goslin and Schneider (4)
Present: Commissioners Fritchey and Suffredin (2)
Absent: Commissioners Garcia and Steele (2)

Page 4 of 54

15-5780
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, County Commissioner

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT, DOCUMENT STORAGE FEES

WHEREAS, Illinois Complied Statutes, 705 ILCS 105/27.3ac, authorizes county boards to require the Clerk of
the Circuit Court to collect a court document fee to be used to establish a document storage system; and

WHEREAS, on January 7, 1991, the Cook County Board of Commissioners adopted County Ordinance 91?0-7
establishing the Document Storage Fund and authorizing the Clerk of the Circuit Court to collect an additional court

?ling fee of $3.00; and

WHEREAS, Section 1 of RA. 87-670, effective January 1, 1992, amended Illinois Compiled Statues, 705 ILCS
105/27.3c, by increasing the fees authorized to be collected to an amount not to exceed $5.00; and

WHEREAS, on February 3, 1992, the Cook County Board of Commissioners amended County Ordinance
92-0-14 increasing the fee to $5.00; and

WHEREAS, on August 15, 2005, Public Act 094-0595, approved by the State Legislature and signed by the
Governor, amended 705 ILCS 105/2730, increasing the maximum document storage fee to $15; and

WHEREAS, on December 27, 2013, Public Act 098-0606, approved by the State Legislature and signed by the
Governor, amended 705 ILCS 105/2730, increasing the maximum document storage fee to $16709 $25.00; and

WHEREAS, the Clerk of the Circuit Court has represented that the document storage fees be increased as
authorized by the Legislature excluding minor traf?c cases satis?ed without a court appearance; and

WHEREAS, the Clerk of the Circuit Court has represented that the costs associated with maintaining the current
document management and storage system; and converting old paper ?les, for cases ?led prior to the
implementation of the imaging system prior to 2006 for County Division; November 11, 2009 for Chancery
Division; 201 1 for Probate Division; June 201 for Law Division; August 201 1 for Civil Division; 2012 for Juvenile
Justice and Child Protection; April 2012 for Domestic Relations and Child Support; December 2013 for Criminal
Division, Criminal Department, and Major Traf?c; February 2014 for Criminal and Major Traf?c; and, 2016 for
the completion of Minor Traf?c. The paper records date back to October 1871 and will cost more than $20
million to convert to electronic records based upon the most recent Needs Analysis performed in 2006. These
needs justify and necessitate the increased fee; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Cook County desires to increase the fee as requested; and to stay the
same upon approva?or at least the next 4 vears.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 32 Fees, Sec. 32-1 of the Cook
County Code are amended as Follows:

Page 5 of 54

Sec. 18?34. Court Clerk document storage fee

Generally. In accordance with provisions set forth in 705 ILCS 105/27.3c, et seq. (document
storage system), a document storage fee is hereby imposed in the County. The Clerk of the Circuit Court of the
County shall charge and collect a document storage fee as set out in Section 32-1 from each party in all civil cases
and by the defendant in any felony, traf?c misdemeanor, municipal ordinance, or conservation case upon a judgment
of guilty or grant of supervision, provided that the record keeping system which processes the case category for
which the fee is charged is automated or has been approved for automation by the County Board. Such fee shall
be paid at the time of ?ling the ?rst pleading, paper or other appearance ?led by each party. No additional fee
shall be required if more than one party is presented in a single pleading, paper or other appearance.

De?nitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms, words and/or phrases used in
this section shall be ascribed the same meaning as those terms de?ned or used by 705 ILCS 105/2730 et seq.
(document storage system).

(0) Collection and enforcement. In accordance with provisions set forth in 705 ILCS 105/27.3c, et
seq. (document storage system), such document storage fee shall be charged and collected by the Clerk of the Circuit
Court. Such fee shall be collected in the manner in which all other fees or costs are collected. (This fee shall be
in addition to all other fees and charges of such clerk, and assessable as costs, and shall be remitted by
such clerk to the County Treasurer to be retained in a special fund designated as the ?Document Storage Fund.?
The fund shall be audited by the County Auditor and the Board shall make expenditure from the fund in payment
of any cost related to the automation of court records, including hardware, software, research and development costs
and personnel related thereto, provided that the expenditure is approved by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. This fee
shall not be charged in any matter coming to any such clerk on change of venue, nor in any proceeding to review
the decision of any administrative of?cer, agency or body. The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall not collect the
fees herein authorized from any of?cial, department or agency of County Government where the services provided
by the Clerk of the Circuit Court are for of?cial purposes. Any County of?cial, department or agency requesting
services from the Clerk of the Circuit Court pursuant to this provision shall be required to indicate that the request
is made for ?Of?cial Purposes.? The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall establish and keep a record of the fee exempt
services rendered to each County of?cial, department or agency. Such records shall be available on request, to the
Chief Financial Of?cer of the County.

CHAPTER 32 FEES
Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule
The fees or charges provided for or required by the below-listed sections shall be as shown below:

CHAPTER 18, COURTS
18-34 Document storage fee 15.00 25.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect on December 1, 2015 in accordance with the effective date of
Public Act 098-0606.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 6 of 54

Ayes: Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners: Arroyo, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Morrison, Murphy,
Silvestri and Tobolski (9)

Nays: Chairman Daley, Commissioners Boykin, itchey, Goslin and Schneider (5)
Present: Commissioner Suffredin (1)
Absent: Commissioners Garcia and Steele (2)

15-6024
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMUSEMENT TAX ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, ?scal responsibility, innovative leadership, transparency and accountability, and improved services
have been and continue to be the underlying mission of the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners; and

WHEREAS, improvements in enforcement of current Home Rule Tax Ordinances are essential to encourage
increased compliance; and

WHEREAS, the Department of Revenue wishes to codify already established practices in order to alleviate
confusion; and

WHEREAS, further alignment with the City of Chicago?s Amusements Ordinance will alleviate tax reporting
burdens on area businesses,

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74, Taxation, Article X,
Amusement Tax, Sections 74-390 through 74-398 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

Sec. 74-390. Short Title. This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Amusement Tax
Ordinance

Sec. 74-391. De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Amusement means (l)_any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for entertainment purposes,
including, but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, promotional show,
motion picture show, ?ower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo, athletic contest, sport, game or
similar exhibition, such as boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing, swimming, racing, riding on animals or vehicles,
baseball, basketball, softball, soccer, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and ?eld games, bowling, or billiard and

Page 7 of 54

pool games:; (2) any entertainment or 
recreational activity offered for public participation or on a membership or other basis, including, but not limited
to, carnivals, amusement park rides and games, bowling, billiards and pool games, dancing, tennis, golf, racquetball,
swimming, weightlifting, body building or similar activities:; or (3) anj_paid television programming, whether
transmitted by wire. cable. ?ber optics, laser. microwave, radio. satellite or similar means. For purposes of this
article, the term "amusement" shall not mean raf?es, as de?ned in 230 ILCS 15/1 (Raf?es Act?de?nitions),
intertrack wagering facilities, as defined in the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 (230 ILCS 5/1 et seq.), or
automatic amusement devices.

Automatic amusement devices means any machine which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, or similar
object may be operated generally by any person for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score, and includes, but is not limited to, such devices as jukeboxes, marble machines, pinball
machines, video games, movie or video booths or stands and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto
under whatever name by which they may be indicated.

Charges paid means the gross amount of consideration paid for the privilege to enter, to witness, to view or to
participate in an amusement. valued in money. whether received in money or otherwise, including cash. credits,
property and services determined without anyr deduction or expenses whatsoever, but not including
charges that are added on account of the tax imposed by this article or on account of any other tax imposed on the
charge.

Department and Department of Revenue mean the County Department of Revenue.

Live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performance means a live performance in any of the
disciplines which are commonly regarded as part of the ?ne arts, such as live theater, music, opera, drama, comedy,
ballet, modern or traditional dance, and book or poetry readings. The term does not include such amusements as
athletic events, races, or performances conducted at adult entertainment cabarets (as de?ned in Section 14.2.1 of
the Cook County Zoning 

Maximum capacity means the persons that an auditorium, theater or other space may accommodate as
determined by the local ?re department or other appropriate governmental agency; provided, however, that
maximum capacity shall not exceed the maximum number of tickets or admissions that may be made available for
sale to a performance as stated in any binding written agreement relating to that performance. If the number of
tickets or admissions actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally permissible limit, then, for purposes of
determining the applicable tax, the term "maximum capacity" shall mean such greater number.

Operator means any person who sells or resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for consideration or
who, directly or indirectly. receives or collects the charges paid {qr the s31]; or resale of a ticket or other license to

an amusement. The term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the business of selling or reselling tickets

or other licenses to amusement, whether on?linc. in person or otherwise.
Owner means:
(1) With respect to the owner of a place where an amusement is being held, any person who has an ownership
or leasehold interest in a building, structure, vehicle, boat, area or other place who presents, conducts or

operates an amusement in such place or who allows, by agreement or otherwise, another person to present,
conduct or operate an amusement in such place;

Page 8 of 54

(2) With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person which has an ownership or leasehold interest in
such amusement or any person who has a proprietary interest in the amusement so as to entitle such person
to all or a portion of the proceeds, after payment of reasonable expenses, from the operation, conduct or
presentation of such amusement, excluding proceeds from nonamusement services and from sales of
tangible personal property:;

(3) With respeetlgpaitl television. anv person ()DBI?Hll?gjl community antenna television system or wireless
cable television system, opany person receiving consideration for furnishing. transmitting,

or otherwise providing access to paid television programming.

 

 

 

 

Paid television means programming that can be viewed on a television or other screen, and is transmitted by
cable, ?ber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar means to members of the public for consideration.

Patron means a person whtLaepuires the privilege to enter, to Wl?ti?tt?, to view or to participate in an
amusement.

 

Person means any natural individual, ?rm, society, foundation, institution, partnership, limited liability
company, association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee
or other representative appointed by the order of any court, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular and plural are included in any circumstance.

Resale means the resale of a ticket or other license to an amusement after the ticket or other license has been
sold by the owner, manager or operator of the amusement, or bv the owner, manager or operator ot'the place where
the amusement is being held. to an independent and unrelated third partv.

Reseller means a person who resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for consideration. The term
includes, but is not limited to, ticket brokers and applies whether the ticket is resold by bidding, consignment or
otherwise and whether the ticket is resold in person, at a site on the Internet or otherwise.

Ticker means the privilege to enter, to witness. to view or to participate in an amusement. whether or not
expressed in a tangible form.

Sec. 74-392. Tax imposed.

Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax is imposed upon the patrons of every
amusement which takes place within the County. The rate of the tax shall be equal to three percent of the
admission fees or other charges paid for the privilege to enter, to witness, er?to view or to participate in such
amusement, unless subsection of this section provides for a lower rate.

The tax imposed by subsection of this section may be waived for the following persons or privileges, after
approval by the Department of Revenue or, if applicable, the Cook County Board of Commissioners:

(1) The privilege of witnessing or participating in any stock show or business show that is not open to the
general public;

(2) The privilege of witnessing or participating in any amateur production or activity such as amateur

musicals, plays and athletic events conducted by a not-for-pro?t organization operated exclusively for
charitable, educational or religious purposes;?er

Page 9 of 54

(3) Subject to satisfying the requirement contained in subsection of this section, the privilege of witnessing
or participating in any amusement sponsored or conducted by and the proceeds of which, after payment
of reasonable expenses, inure exclusively to the bene?t of:

 

a. Religious, educational and charitable institutions, societies or organizations;

b. Societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals;

c. Societies or organizations conducted and maintained for the purpose of civic improvement;

d. Fraternal organizations, legion posts, social and political groups which conduct amusements,
sponsored occasionally but not more often than twice yearly; wmded?hewever?vthat?the?m?es

or?perseng

Provided. however. that the entities described in subsections land of this section are not?l?or-pro?l

 

institutions, organizations. groups or societies. where no part of the net earnings inure to the bene?t ol?anv
private shareholder or person;

Organizations or persons in the armed services of the United States, or National Guard organizations,
reserve of?cers' associations, or organizations or posts of war veterans, or auxiliary units or societies
of such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations, units or societies are organized in the
State of Illinois, and if no part of their earnings inure to the bene?t of any private shareholder or
person;

Organizations or associations created and maintained for the purpose of bene?ting the members, or
dependents or heirs of members, of the police or ?re {departments} of any political subdivision of

the State of Illinois 



 

   

Provided. however. that the exemptions contained in subsections {blt'3?iahf of this section shall apply only to
bene?ts or other fundraising events and shall not apply to more than two events per calendar year which shall
not exceed a total of 14 calendar days;

Societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose of maintaining orchestras, opera
performances or artistic presentations, including, but not limited to, musical presentations ("artistic
societies or organizations?), if the artistic society or organization:

1. Receives substantial support from voluntary contributions;

2. Is a not-for-pro?t institution where no part of the net earnings inure to the bene?t of any private
shareholder or person; and

3. Either bears all risk of ?nancial loss from its presentation of the amusement, where the
amusement takes place at a venue that is owned or operated; bl a not-for-pro?t institution, no
part of whose net earnings inure to the bene?t of any private shareholder or person, and where
the amusement is limited to an engagement of not more than four calendar days over the course

Page 10 of 54

(C)





of a calendar year, or (ii) is substantially and materially involved in the production and
performance of the amusement. Where an amusement is sponsored or conducted by two or more
artistic societies or organizations, the requirements of subsections and 2. of this
section must be met by each of such artistic societies or organizations, but the requirements of
subsection may be met by any of such artistic societies or organizations, individually
or in combination.

None of the exemptions contained in subsection of this section shall be granted unless a written
application for exemption is ?led with the Department at least 45 calendar days prior to the amusement event
or l5 calendar days prior to the date that admission tickets to the amusement are ?rst made available for sale,
whichever is earlier. The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Director of Revenue and shall contain
all information necessary to permit the Department to determine whether the exemption claimed by the
applicant is applicable. If the department determines that by granting the exemption the potential loss of tax
revenue will be greater than $150, 000. 00 the application shall be submitted to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners for ?nal approval. The County Board may deny the exemption application if it ?nds that the
exemption is not in the best economic interest of the County.

The tax imposed in subsection of this section shall not apply to or be imposed upon:
(1) The admission fees to witness in person, live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances

that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County, whose maximum capacity,
including all balconies and other sections, is not more than 750 persons.

(2) Initiation fees and membership dues paid to a health club, racquetball club, tennis club or a similar club
or organization, when such club or organization is organized and operated on a membership basis and for
the recreational purposes of its members and its members' guests, shall be exempt from the tax imposed
in subsection of this section. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to any fees paid or based
upon a per-event or a per-admission basis.

 
 

P?rom-ttaehauaesttion-oF?Ehe
II II

aeo?oceur?es?shatt?he

 

eens?idered?the?mtren?s?hrmw

For the purpose of determining the amount of the amusement tax due under this article, admission fees or other
charges shall be computed exclusive of;

aAny Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed upon the amusement patron, and?
(2) aAny amounts subiect to other Cook County taxes [with the exception at" County Retailers?

Occupation Tax), provided such County taxes are separately listed on the ticket of admission
and the corresponding Cook County tax has beenpaiti on that separa?ty stated amount.

 

 

Q) aAny separately stated optional charges for nonamusement services or for sales of tangible personal
property.

Page 11 of 54

 It is unlawful for any person to produce, present or conduct any amusement without collection of the tax,
except as provided in this article.

(1) The rate of the tax imposed in subsection of this section shall be one percent of the admission fees or
other charges to Witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances that take
place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County whose maximum capacity, including all
balconies and other sections, is more than 750 persons and less than 5,000 persons.

(2) The rate of the tax imposed in subsection of this section shall be 1.5 percent of the admission fees or
other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances that take
place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County whose maximum capacity, including all
balconies and other sections, is 5,000 persons or more.

(2) It shall be presumed that all amusements are subiect to tax under this article until the contrary is established
by books, records or other documentary evidence.

11 is unlawful for any person to produce. present, conduct. or resell tickets to, any amusement without collection
of the taxLexcept as provided in this article.

Sec. 74-393. Tax additional.

The tax imposed 1n this article IS in addition to all other taxes imposed by State of Illinois or
any municipal corporation or political subdivision 

Sec. 74-394. Registration.

Every owner, manager or operator of an amusement or of a place where an amusement is being held in the
County and every reseller, shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the Department no later than 30 days
after commencing such business or 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is
derived, whichever occurs later. Application for registration shall be made to the Department by use of the form
furnished by the Department for such purpose and shall contain such information as the Department may reasonably
requlre.

Sec. 74-395. Collection, payment and accounting.

It shall be the joint and several duty of every owner, manager; 1 operator of an amusement, a place where an
amusement is being held or place of amusement and every ticket reseller to secure from each patron or buyer
the tax imposed by this article: provided, howeveILthat a_r_eseller of tickets shall be required to collect and
remit tax to the Departnu?g_1__1__t_onlyr on that portion ol'the ticket price that exceeds the amount that the reseller
paid For the tickets. For purposes of this provision. it shall be presumed that the amount that the reseller paid
for the the face amount of the tickets, unless; _th_e__t_axprayer or tax collector proves otherwise with
books, records or other documentary evidence. Tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the
Department shall be remitted to the Department on or before the 20th day of the month following the month
in which payment for the amusement is made.

 

 

Page 12 of 54

 Canceled admission tickets and complete and accurate records, books and accounts in detail of all receipts
shall be kept at the place of amusement or such other place in the County as may be designated in writing by
the person liable for collection of the tax. All such books, records and accounts shall be kept for a period equal
to the statute of limitations as identi?ed in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, 34-60 et
5891., and shall be open to inspection by the Department at all reasonable times during business hours.

(0) Every owner, manager, or?operator or reseller who is required to collect the tax imposed by this article shall
be considered a tax collector for the County. All amusement taxes collected shall be held by such tax collector
as trustee for and on behalf of the County. The failure of the tax collector to collect the tax shall not excuse or
release the patron from the obligation to pay the tax.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in order to permit sound ?scal planning and budgeting
by the County, no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the tax imposed by this article unless
the person ?les a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the tax was paid or
remitted to the Department.

Sec. 74-396. Rules and regulations; authorized.
The Department of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations pertaining to

the interpretation, collection, administration and enforcement of this article. including, but not limited to, the
meaning and scope of the exemptions contained in Section 74-392.

 

Sec. 74-397. Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this article is silent, the provisions
of the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance shall apply and supplement this article.

Sec. 74-398. Violations; penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be subiect to a ?ne of 000. 00 for the ?rst
offense and a line of $3 ,000. U0 for the second and each sLLiLse-quent oflense??eel?Hel?less?Hth?GQW
Every day such violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
It shall be deemed a violation ofthis article lor any person to knowingly false oI inacculate iniounation to
the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute
civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interestirnd penalties title and owing, as well as costs incurred for such

proceedings.

 

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the voice vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo. Boykin, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (l6)

Absent: Commissioners: Steele (1)

Page 13 of 54

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 15-6024

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

1

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMUSEMENT TAX ORDINANCE

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
Taxation, Article X. Amusement Tax, Section 74?390 through 74-398 be amended as follows:

ARTICLE X. AMUSEMENT TAX

Sec. 74-390. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Amusement Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-391. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Amusement means any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for entertainment purposes, including,
but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, promotional show, motion picture
show, ?ower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo, athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition,
such as boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing, swimming, riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball, softball,
soccer, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and ?eld games, bowling, or billiard and pool games. For purposes of
this article, the term ?amusement" shall not mean any recreational activity offered for public participation or on a
membership or other basis, including, but not limited to, carnivals, amusement park rides and games, bowling,
billiards and pool games, dancing, tennis, golf, racquetball, swimming, weightlifting, body building or similar
activities. For purposes of this article, the term ?amusement" shall not mean raf?es, as de?ned in 230 ILCS 15/1
(Raf?es Act?de?nitions), intertrack wagering facilities, as de?ned in the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975 (230
ILCS 5/1 et seq.), or automatic amusement devices.

Automatic amusement devices means any machine which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, or similar
object may be operated generally by any person for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score, and includes, but is not limited to, such devices as jukeboxes, marble machines, pinball
machines, video games, movie or video booths or stands and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto
under whatever name by which they may be indicated.

Cliamespuid means the gross amount ot'emisideration paid For the privilege to enter. to wil??g? or to view an
amusement, valued?iu money. whether received in mgmey or oll'lerwise. including cash. credits, ,[iropeltv and
services, determined without any deduction for costs or expenses whatsoever,_but not including charges that are
added on account of the tax imposed In; or on account 01" any other tax imposed on the charge.

 

 

 

Page 14 of 54

Department and Department of Revenue mean the County Department of Revenue.

Live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performance means a live performance in any of the
disciplines which are commonly regarded as part of the ?ne arts, such as live theater, music, opera, drama, comedy,
ballet, modern or traditional dance, and book or poetry readings. The term does not include such amusements as
athletic events, races, or performances conducted at adult entertainment cabarets (as de?ned in Section 14.2.1 of
the Cook County Zoning Ordinance?944901).

Maximum capacity means the persons that an auditorium, theater or other space may accommodate as
determined by the local ?re department or other appropriate governmental agency; provided, however, that
maximum capacity shall not exceed the maximum number of tickets or admissions that may be made available for
sale to a performance as stated in any binding written agreement relating to that performance. If the number of
tickets or admissions actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally permissible limit, then, for purposes of
determining the applicable tax, the term ?maximum capacity" shall mean such greater number.

Operator means any person who sells or resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for consideration or
who. directlv or indirectlv. receives or collects the charges paid for the sale or resale ofa ticket or other license to
an amusement. The term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the business ofsellinn or reselling tickets
or other licenses to amusement, whether on?line, in person or otherwise.

Owner means:

(1) With respect to the owner of a place where an amusement is being held, any person who has an ownership
or leasehold interest in a building, structure, vehicle, boat, area or other place who presents, conducts or
operates an amusement in such place or who allows, by agreement or otherwise, another person to present,
conduct or operate an amusement in such place;

(2) With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person which has an ownership or leasehold interest in
such amusement or any person who has a proprietary interest in the amusement so as to entitle such person
to all or a portion of the proceeds, after payment of reasonable expenses, from the operation, conduct or
presentation of such amusement, excluding proceeds from nonamusement services and from sales of
tangible personal property.

Patron means a person who acquires the privilege to enter, to witness or to view an amusement.

Person means any natural individual, ?rm, society, foundation, institution, partnership, limited liability
company, association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee
or other representative appointed by the order of any court, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular and plural are included in any circumstance.

Resale means the resale of a ticket or other license to an amusement after the ticket or other license has been
sold by the owner, manager or operator of the amusement, or by the owner, manager or operator of the place where
the amusement is being held, to an independent and unrelated third partv.

 

Reseller means a person who resells a ticket or other license to an amusement for consideration. The term
includes. but is not limited to. ticket brokers and applies whether the ticket is resold bv bidding, consignment or
otherwise and whether the ticket is resold in person, at a site on the Internet or otherwise.

Ticket means the privilege to enter, to witness or to view an amusement, whether or not expressed in a tangible
form.

Page 15 of 54

Sec. 74-392. Tax imposed.

Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax is imposed upon the patrons of every
amusement which takes place within the County. The rate of the tax shall be equal to three percent of the
admission fees or other charges paid for the privilege to enter, to witness or to View such amusement, unless
subsection (1) of this section provides for a lower rate.



The tax imposed by subsection of this section may be waived for the following persons or privileges, after
approval by the Department of Revenue or, if applicable, the Cook County Board of Commissioners:

?The privilege of witnessing any stock show or business show that is not open to the general public;

(2) The privilege of witnessing any amateur production or activity such as amateur musicals, plays and
athletic events conducted by a not- for-pro?t organization operated exclusively for charitable, educational

or religious purposes; +11

(3) Subject to satisfying the requirement contained in subsection of this section, the privilege of witnessing
any amusement sponsored or conducted by and the proceeds of which, after payment of reasonable
expenses, inure exclusively to the bene?t of:

     

a Religious, educational and charitable institutions, societies or organizations;

b. Societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals;

0. Societies or organizations conducted and maintained for the purpose of civic improvement;

(1. Fraternal organizations, legion posts, social and political groups which conduct amusements,
sponsored occasionally but not more often than twice yearly; 
eepeeseng

Provided. however that the entities described in subsections ri of this section are not- for- pro?t

 

institutions organizations 1111111131: or societies. where no 111111 of the net earnings inure to the bene?t of aav
private shareholder or person;

6.

Organizations or persons in the armed services of the United States, or National Guard organizations,
reserve of?cers' associations, or organizations or posts of war veterans, or auxiliary units or societies
of such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations, units or societies are organized in the
State of Illinois, and if no part of their earnings inure to the bene?t of any private shareholder or
person;

Organizations or associations created and maintained for the purpose of bene?ting the members, or
dependents or heirs of members, of the police or ?re {departments} of any political subdivision of
the State of Illinois 

slmH?appiy?oniy?I- 41?11111?1111134 


 

that the exemptions contained 111 subsections (bit3?111~Foftl1is section shall apply oniv to
bene?ts 111' other i'undraising events and shall not 1111111 two events per calendar vcar which shall
not exceed a total of 14 calendar days;

g.

Societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose of maintaining orchestras, opera
performances or artistic presentations, including, but not limited to, musical presentations (?artistic
societies or organizations"), if the artistic society or organization:

Page 16 of 54

(C)



(6)

1. Receives substantial support from voluntary contributions;

2. Is a not-for-pro?t institution where no part of the net earnings inure to the bene?t of any private
shareholder or person; and

3. Either bears all risk of ?nancial loss from its presentation of the amusement, where the
amusement takes place at a venue that is owned or operated; by a not-for-pro?t institution, no
part of whose net earnings inure to the bene?t of any private shareholder or person, and where
the amusement is limited to an engagement of not more than four calendar days over the course
of a calendar year, or (ii) is substantially and materially involved in the production and
performance of the amusement. Where an amusement is sponsored or conducted by two or more
artistic societies or organizations, the requirements of subsections and 2. of this
section must be met by each of such artistic societies or organizations, but the requirements of
subsection may be met by any of such artistic societies or organizations, individually
or in combination.

None of the exemptions contained in subsection of this section shall be granted unless a written
application for exemption is ?led with the Department at least 45 calendar days prior to the amusement event
or 15. calendar days prior to the date that admission tickets to the amusement are ?rst made available for sale,
whichever is earlier. The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Director of Revenue and shall contain
all information necessary to permit the Department to determine whether the exemption claimed by the
applicant is applicable. If the department determines that by granting the exemption the potential loss of tax
revenue will be greater than $150,000.00 the application shall be submitted to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners for ?nal approval. The County Board may deny the exemption application if it ?nds that the
exemption is not in the best economic interest of the County.

The tax imposed in subsection of this section shall not apply to or be imposed upon:

(1) The admission fees to witness in person, live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances
that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County, whose maximum capacity,
including all balconies and other sections, is not more than 750 persons.

(2) Initiation fees and membership dues paid to a health club, racquetball club, tennis club or a similar club
or organization, when such club or organization is organized and operated on a membership basis and for
the recreational purposes of its members and its members' guests, shall be exempt from the tax imposed
in subsection of this section. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to any fees paid or based
upon a per-event or a per-admission basis.

(3) Fees or other charges paid by a patron for the privilege of witnessing, viewing or participating in an
amusement, solely within the con?nes of such patron's home, shall be exempt from the imposition of the
tax imposed in subsection of this section. For purposes of this exemption, the term ?home" means the
permanent dwelling residence of the patron. For patrons who live in condominium buildings, apartment
buildings or other multiple-unit structures, the individual dwelling unit the patron occupies shall be
considered the patron's home.

For the purpose of determining the amount of the amusement tax due under this article, admission fees or other
charges shall be computed exclusive of;

(1) aAny Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed upon the amusement patron, and?

aAny amounts subject to other Cook County taxes {with the exception of?Tonnt?y Rct'ailcrs? Occupation
Tax), provided such County taxes are separately listed on the ticket of admission and the corresponding
Cook County tax has been paid on that separately stated amount.

 

Page 17 of 54

Q) aAny separately stated optional charges for nonamusement services or for sales of tangible personal
property.
It is unlawful for any person to produce, present or conduct any amusement without collection of the tax,
except as provided in this article.

(1) The rate of the tax imposed in subsection of this section shall be one percent of the admission fees or
other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances that take
place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County whose maximum capacity, including all
balconies and other sections, is more than 750 persons and less than 5,000 persons.

(2) The rate of the tax imposed in subsection of this section shall be 1.5 percent of the admission fees or
other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances that take
place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County whose maximum capacity, including all
balconies and other sections, is 5,000 persons or more.

it shall be presumed that all amusements are subiect to tax under this article until the contrary is established
by books, records or other documentary evidence.

h) it is unlawful for any person to produce. present, conduct, or resell without collection
of the tax, except as provided in this article.

 

Sec. 74-393. Tax additional.

The tax imposed 1n this article 18 in addition to all other taxes imposed by Meat-yam State of Illinois or
any municipal corporation or political subdivision 

Sec. 74-394. Registration.

Every owner, manager or operator of an amusement or of a place where an amusement is being held in the
County and eveg reseller, shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the Department no later than 30 days
after commencing such business or 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is
derived, whichever occurs later. Application for registration shall be made to the Department by use of the form
furnished by the Department for such purpose and shall contain such information as the Department may reasonably
requ1re.

Sec. 74-395. Collection, payment and accounting.

It shall be the joint and several duty of every owner, manager; operator of an amusement, a place where
an amusement is being held or place of amusement and every ticket reseller to secure from each patron 
b_uyg the tax imposed by this article; provided, however, that a reseller of tickets shall be required to
collect and remit tax to the Department only on that portion ofthe ticket price that exceeds the amount that
the reseller paid for the tiekets, Lot: purposes of this provision, it shall be presumed that the amount that
the reseller paid for the tickets is the face amount_ol?the tickets, unless the taspt?er or t_ax collectorprorJt;
otherwise with books, records or other documentary evidence. Tax payments accompanied by tax returns
prescribed by the Department shall be remitted to the Department on or before the 20th day of the month
following the month in which payment for the amusement is made.

 

 

Page 18 of 54

 Canceled admission tickets and complete and accurate records, books and accounts in detail of all receipts
shall be kept at the place of amusement or such other place in the County as may be designated in writing by
the person liable for collection of the tax. All such books, records and accounts shall be kept for a period equal
to the statute of limitations as identified in the Uniform Penalties. Interest and Procedures Ordinance, 34-60 at
sea, and shall be open to inspection by the Department at all reasonable times during business hours.

(0) Every owner, manager, er?operator or reseller who is required to collect the tax imposed by this article shall
be considered a tax collector for the County. All amusement taxes collected shall be held by such tax collector
as trustee for and on behalf of the County. The failure of the tax collector to collect the tax shall not excuse or
release the patron from the obligation to pay the tax.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in order to permit sound ?scal planning and budgeting by
the County, no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the tax imposed by this article unless the
person files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted to
the Department.

Sec. 74-396. Rules and regulations; authorized.

The Department of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and regulations pertaining to
the interpretation, collection, administration and enforcement of this article, including, but not limited to, the
meaning and scope of the exemptions contained in 

 

Sec. 74?397. Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this article is silent, the provisions
of the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance shall apply and supplement this article.

Sec. 74-398. Violations; penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a ?ne of $1,000.00 for the ?rst
offense, and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent otfense-?aedaieHesHhaHW?HW
Every day such violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
It shall be deemed a violation of this article for anv person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate to
the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no wav bar the right ot?the County to institute
civil pLoceedings to recover delinquent taxes. interest and penalties due and owing as well as costs incurred for such

mass 
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adOption

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman: Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore,
Murphy, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (l 1)

Page 19 of 54

Nays: Commissioners: Fritchey, Goslin, Morrison and Schneider (4)

Absent: Commissioners: Garcia and Steele (2)

1 5-6025
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TOBACCO TAX ORDINANCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74, Taxation, Article XI, Tobacco
Tax, Sections 74-430 through 74-450 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 74-430. Short Title.
This article may be cited as the ?Cook County Tobacco Tax Ordinance?
Sec. 74-431. De?nitions.

For the purpose of this Article, whenever any of the following words, terms or de?nitions are used herein, they
shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section.

Altered or mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on which the identity information is illegible or
incomplete.

Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.

Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco (other than
any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette as de?ned in this Article).

Cigarette means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
whether such tobacco is ?avored, adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, or not, and the wrapper of which
is made of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.

Concealment means cigarettes, other tobacco products, tar?cigarette tax stamps, or Consumable Products, in
violation of this Article, deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by or in the
possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible.

means any nicotine liquid solution or other material containing nicotine that is depleted

as a vapor product is used.

 

Consumer means a person who purchases cigarettes, er?Other Tobacco Products,_or_Consumable from
a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer, and not for resale purposes.

Page 20 of 54

Counterfeit cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a false, forged, arti?cial or imitation
manufacturing label.

County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of Finance of the County of Cook.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Improperly stamped pack means any packs of cigarettes on which is af?xed an altered/mutilated; used or
reused; or counterfeit tax stamp.

Large cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance containing tobacco and
weighing more than four pounds per one thousand units.

Little cigar means any roll of tobacco, other than a cigarette, wrapped in leaf tobacco or any substance
containing tobacco and not weighing more than four pounds per one thousand units.

Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed container, pack, or package as provided
by the manufacturer or as a result of any wholesale or retail tobacco dealer or person breaking or otherwise opening
any cigarette package to sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller
than the minimum package size of 20 cigarettes or any quantity of cigarettes that is smaller than the smallest package
distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer use.

Loose little cigars means little cigars that are not contained within a sealed container, pack or package as
provided by the manufacturer.

Manufacturer means any person, other than a Retail Cigarette Manufacturer, who makes or fabricates
cigarettes, a?dler other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products and sells them.

Other Tobacco Products includes, but is not limited to, smokeless tobacco, smoking tobacco, large cigars and
little cigars, but does not include cigarettes.

Package means the original packet, box, tin or container whatsoever used to contain and to convey cigarettes,
er?other tobacco products& Consumable Products to the consumer.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Pipe tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or labeling is suitable for
use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.

Premises means, but is not limited to, buildings, vehicles or any place where cigarette, er?Other Tobacco
Products, or Consumable Products inventory is possessed, stored or sold.

Purchaser means a buyer of cigarettes, er?Other Tobacco Products, or Consumable Products, including, but
not limited to, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and/or consumers.

Page 21 of 54

Retail cigarette manufacturer means any retail tobacco dealer who provides to consumers tobacco and other
material and equipment for the production and sale of cigarettes within the retail cigarette manufacturer's premises
in Cook County.

Retail tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling cigarettes, or?other tobacco
products, or Consumable Products in the County of Cook to a consumer. A retail tobacco dealer shall not include
any person who is licensed by the State of Illinois as a tobacco distributor or wholesaler.?

 

Roll-your-own tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging or labeling is
suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes or cigars
or for use as wrappers of cigars or cigarettes.

Sale, resale, selling means any transfer of ownership or possession, or both, exchange or barter, conditional or
otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever for a valuable consideration.

Smokeless tobacco includes any snuff, snus, chewing tobacco, or other tobacco products not intended to be
smoked.

Smoking tobacco includes granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other kinds and forms of tobacco
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for smoking in a pipe or cigarette.

Snu? means any ?nely cut, ground or powdered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.
Snus means any moist tobacco product that is not intended to be smoked.

Stamp means paper or other material with an imprint or decalcomania device thereon, of such size, design,
color and denominations as may be prescribed and procured by the Department which, when af?xed to a package
of cigarettes, shall evidence payment of the tax thereon, as provided by this Article.

Tobacco products includes, but is not limited to, any cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut,
crimp out, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snus, snuff or snuff ?our; Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco;
?ne?cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweeping of tobacco; and other
kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise,
or both chewing and smoking; but does not include cigarettes or tobacco purchased for the manufacture of cigarettes
by cigarette wholesale tobacco dealers and manufacturers as de?ned in this Article.

Unit means any division of quantity that may be used as a standard to measure the quantity sold based on
length, width, weight such as pounds, ounces and/or grams or volume or some other similar unit of measure,
including, but not limited to, per item.

Unstamped pack means any pack of cigarettes on which a Cook County tax stamp is not af?xed.

Use means any exercise of a right or power, actual or constructive, and shall include, but is not limited to, the
receipt, storage, or any keeping or retention for any length of time, but shall not include possession for sale by a
retail tobacco dealer, retail cigarette manufacturer or wholesale tobacco dealer as de?ned in this Article.

Used or reused tax stamp means any tax stamp previously af?xed to a tobacco product, removed and

subsequently af?xed to any tobacco product purchased, offered for sale or sold by any person, wholesale or retail

Page 22 of 54

tobacco dealer; or any removed tax stamp purchased, offered for sale, sold by, or in the possession of a wholesale
or retail tobacco dealer.

Vapor product means any nonlighted, noncombustible product that employs a mechanical heating element.
ballegy. or electronic circuit regardless of shape or size to produce vapor from nicotine in a
solution. The term includes any vapor cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solu_ti__on or other form that is
intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette. electronic cigar- electronic cigarillo. electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. The term does not include any product regulated by the United States Food and Drug
Administration under Chapter of the federal Food. Drug. and Cosmetic Act.

 

Wholesale tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling or supplying cigarettes,
andler Other Tobacco Products. and/or Consumable Products, who brings or causes to be brought into the County
of Cook cigarettes, andler Other Tobacco Products. and or Consumable Product_s for sale or resale to retail tobacco
dealers; and/or retail cigarette in or outside the County of Cook. For the purposes
of this Article, Wholesale tobacco dealers also includes persons or businesses licensed as tobacco distributors,
cigarette distributors or wholesalers with the State of Illinois.

 

Sec. 74-432. - Registration of wholesale, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturer.

Wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers as de?ned in this Article,
shall register with the Department in accordance with policies or procedures prescribed by the Department.

Sec. 74-433. - Tax imposed; cigarettes, other tobacco products; collection; remittance.

Cigarette Tax rate. A tax at the rate of 150 mils or $0.15 per cigarette is hereby imposed upon all cigarettes
possessed for sale and upon the use of all cigarettes within the County of Cook, the ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of said tax to be borne by the consumer of said cigarettes. The tax imposed hereby at the
rate of 150 mils or $0.15 per cigarette shall become in force and effect on March 1, 2013. The tax herein levied
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Cigarette Tax stamp purchases. The tax imposed in this Section shall be paid by purchase of tax stamps from
the Department, except as otherwise provided in Subsections 74-446(a) and of this Article. The Department
shall only sell Cook County cigarette tax stamps to cigarette distributors who are licensed with the State of
Illinois. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer, before delivering or causing to be delivered any
cigarettes to a retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook to purchase from the Department a tax stamp for
each package of cigarettes and to cancel said stamps prior to the delivery of such cigarettes to any retail tobacco
dealer in the County of Cook. Said stamps shall be af?xed and cancelled in the manner prescribed by rules and
regulations of the Department.

Retail cigarette manufacturer tax rate. A tax at the rate of $0.15 per cigarette is hereby imposed upon each
cigarette sold by a retail cigarette manufacturer. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes.

Other tobacco product tax rate. A tax at the rates speci?ed in this Section is hereby imposed upon the sale of
all Other Tobacco Products within the County of Cook, the ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of
said tax to be borne by the Consumer of said Other Tobacco Products. The tax imposed hereby at the rates
listed in Subsection (1) shall come into force and effect on March 1, 2012 and Subsection (2) on January 1,
2013.

Page 23 of 54



(1) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following products through December
31, 2012:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.
b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.30 per ounce or fraction thereof.
0. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

d. Large cigars: $0.25 per unit or cigar.

(2) A tax at the following rates is hereby imposed upon the sale of the following products effective January
1, 2013:

a. Smoking tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.

b. Smokeless tobacco: $0.60 per ounce or fraction thereof.

0. Little cigars: $0.05 per unit or cigar.

d. Large cigars: $0.30 per unit or cigar.
Consumable Product tax rate. Effective Mav l. 2016, a tax at the rate of $0.20 per ?uid milliliter is hereby
imposed upon Consumable Products sold within the County of Cook. All invoices for vapor products issued

by manufacturers and/or wholesalers must state the amount of Consumable Products in milliliters. The ultimate
incidence of and liability for pavment ol?said tax is to be borne by the Consumert?' such Consumable Products.

 

Wholesale Tobacco Dealer, Retail Tobacco Dealer and Retail Cigarette Manufacturer Tax collection. Any



wholesale tobacco dealer shall collect the tax levied by this Article from any Purchaser to whom the sale of
said cigarettes1 andler Other Tobacco Products. and/0r Consumable Products is made within the County of
Cook and shall remit to the County the tax levied by this Article. Any retail tobacco dealer and retail cigarette
manufacturer also shall collect the tax from any Consumer to whom the sale of said cigarettes, andleeOther
Tobacco Products. and or Consumable Products is made within the County of Cook. Any such tax shall be
collected as a trustee for and on account of the County of Cook. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to
impose a tax upon the occupation of wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer, and retail cigarette
manufacturer.

Other Tobacco Products and Consumable Products Ttax remittance.

(1) Wholesale Tobacco Dealers. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer to remit the tax due on
the sales of Other Tobacco Products and Consumable Products to retail tobacco dealers; and/or retail
cigarette in Cook County on forms prescribed by the Department, on or
before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the sales of Other Tobacco Products
and/or Consumable Products occurred.

 

 

(2) Retail Cigarette Manufacturers. It shall be the duty of every retail cigarette manufacturer to remit the tax
due on cigarettes produced and sold on the premises, on forms prescribed by the Department, on or before
the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the cigarette sales occurred.

Page 24 of 54

(3) Retail tobacco dealers and/or retail cigarette manufacturers untaxed Other Tobacco Products _and
Consumable Products. It shall be the duty of every retail tobacco dealer and/or retail cigarette
manufacturer that purchases or acquires Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products on which
the tax set forth in this Article has not been paid, to remit the tax due, on
forms prescribed by the Department, on or before the twentieth day following the month in which the
Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products for which taxes were not paid were sold in Cook
County to a consumer.

 

(gh) Tax included in sales price. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail
tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer to fail to include the tax imposed in this Article in the sale price
of cigarettes, and?other tobacco products. and Consumable Products to otherwise absorb such tax. The tax
levied in this Article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

(hi) Tax debt owed to County. The tax required in this Article to be remitted to the County shall constitute a debt
owed by any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer.

Sec. 74-434. - Tax-free sales.
Wholesale tobacco dealers doing business in Cook County shall not pay or collect a tax with respect to

cigarettes, and?er other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products which are otherwise subject to the tax when
the cigarettes, andqler other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products are being sold to the following:

 

 

Another wholesale tobacco dealer holding a valid Cook County tobacco wholesaler?s registration
certi?cate; or

A wholesale tobacco dealer or a retail tobacco dealer when the selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its
agent, delivers the cigarettes, er?other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products to a location outside
of Cook County.

Additionally, a wholesale tobacco dealer's sale of other tobacco products and/or Consumable Products to a
consumer shall not be taxed so long as the sale occurs outside of Cook County.

 

Sec. 74-435. - Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties.

It shall be a violation of this Article to engage in the sale, possession, or use of any cigarettes, and-lei: other
tobacco products. and or Consumable Products subject to any tax provided by this Article upon which said tax
has not been paid or the stamps af?xed and cancelled as herein required, including, as described in this Article:

 

(1) Counterfeit cigarettes or counterfeit other tobacco products.
(2) Counterfeit tax stamps.

(3) Improperly stamped packs.

(4) Unstamped packs.

(5) _Other tobacco products and Consumable Products.

 

Page 25 of 54

 It shall be a violation of this Article for any wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer, or retail cigarette
manufacturer to engage in any of the following:

(1) Utilization of used or reused tax stamps by possessing or offering for sale or resale packs of cigarettes
af?xed with a used or reused tax stamp.

(2) Concealment, as described in this Article.
(3) Sell or distribute loose cigarettes.

(4) Sell cigarettes to any person, other than to another registered Cook County wholesale tobacco dealer,
unless each package bears an unmutilated Cook County tax stamp af?xed, or where the selling wholesale
tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the unstamped cigarettes to a location outside Cook County.

(5) Hinder or prevent an authorized Department representative from performing an inspection or audit.

Primafacie presumption. The sale, resale or possession by a wholesale tobacco dealer or retail tobacco dealer
of altered/mutilated, counterfeit, used or reused tax stamps; or packs of counterfeit, improperly stamped,
unstamped cigarettes or loose cigarettes; and the sale or resale, by a retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette
manufacturer, of Other Tobacco Products and/or Consumable Products on which the tax provided by this
Article has not been paid shall give rise to the prima facie presumption that the wholesale tobacco dealer, retail
tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer is in violation of the provisions of this Article. Retail tobacco
dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers shall be held strictly liable for violations of this ordinance that occur
within their premises regardless of the employment status of the actual violator.

 

Cigarette pack, tax stamp, loose cigarettes, other tobacco products and hindrance violation penalties.

Violation Type Eggs?
Concealment
Offense $2,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Courierfeit packs of cigarettes
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per pack 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Counterfeit tax stamps
40 or less 2,000.00
41 or more, per stamp 50.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional 4,000.00
Improperly stamped packs
'40 or less 2,000.00

Page 26 of 54

41 or more, per pack

r2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

I Loose cigarettes
40 or less

40 or more, per cigarette

 

'2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional



 

Other tobacco products
offense

'2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional



Sales to unregistered wholesalers

I offense

l2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

Unstamped packs

 

 

:40 packs or less
'41 packs or more, per pack
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

Utilization of used or reused tax stamps

'40 or less packs or stamps

 

41 or more packs or stamps, per pack or stamp

'2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

Hinder inspection or audit

i 1st -offense

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional



Consumable Products

offense

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

Sec. 74-436. - Other violation penalties.

50.00
2,000.00

1,000.00
25.00
2,000.00

1,000.00
2,000.00

2,000.00
4,000.00

1,000.00
25.00
2,000.00

2,000.00
50.00
4,000.00

1,000.00
2,000.00

1,000.00
am

Any person determined to have violated this Article, as amended, excluding the Violations described in Section
74-435 (Sales, possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties), shall be subject to a ?ne in the amount
of $1,000.00 for the ?rst offense, and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate
and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such
Violation, or permit any such Violation to exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this

Article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department.

Page 27 of 54



(C)

See.





Sec.

Criminal penalties. Every person who shall falsely make, alter, forge or counterfeit any tax stamp, or who,
with intent to defraud the County, shall af?x or cause to be af?xed any counterfeit or altered stamp to any
package of cigarettes, knowing said stamp to be counterfeit or altered, shall be guilty of a Class misdemeanor,
in addition to any other criminal penalties which may be applicable under Illinois or Federal law.

Criminal prosecution. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article shall in no way bar the right of the County
to institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding.

74-437. - Internet, mail order and outside-of-county purchases.

Cigarettes. With respect to cigarettes purchased over the internet, by mail order or outside the County, if the
tax on cigarettes which is imposed pursuant to this Article, as amended, has not been paid by a wholesaler or
retailer prior to use or possession of the cigarette by a person within the County of Cook, such person shall be
obligated to make payment of the tax directly to the Department. Within 30 days of purchase, such person shall
?le a return with the Department of Revenue and pay the tax, penalties and interest due under this Article, as
amended.

Other Tobacco Products and Consumable Products. With respect to other tobacco products and Consumable
Products purchased by a consumer over the internet, by mail order or outside the County, if the tax on such
other tobacco products and/or Consumable Products imposed pursuant to this Article has not been collected
and/or remitted to the County previously by a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail tobacco
manufacturer prior to the sale of the other tobacco products to the consumer within the County of Cook, such
consumer shall be obligated to remit the tax due to the County, on forms prescribed by the Department, on or
before the twentieth day following the month in which any such other tobacco products and/or Consumable
Products were purchased by the consumer.

 

74-438. - Mutilation of tax stamps.

It is unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax stamp herein required on any package of cigarettes before it is

sold by a retail tobacco dealer.

See.





74-439. - Books and records to be kept.

Wholesale tobacco dealer records of deliveries. At the time of delivering cigarettes, er?Other Tobacco
Products, and/or Consumable Products to any person doing business in the County of Cook, it shall be the duty
of every wholesale tobacco dealer to make a true triplicate invoice, numbered serially, showing the date of
delivery, the number of packages, the number of cigarettes contained therein in each shipment of cigarettes
delivered, er?amount of Other Tobacco Products delivered, and/or amount, in milliliters, of Consumable
Products delivered and the name of the purchaser to whom delivery is made. The wholesale tobacco dealer
shall issue one copy of the invoice to the purchaser, and shall retain one legible copy of the same for the use
and inspection of the Department for the period of time as provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties,
Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.).

 

Wholesaler and Retailer inventory purchases; sales; reconciliations. It shall be the duty of every wholesale
tobacco dealer and retail tobacco dealer to make or maintain cigarette, andler Other Tobacco Products, and/or
Consumable Products inventory:

Page 28 of 54

(C)

Sec.

(1) Purchase order documents, serially numbered, indicating the date; name, address of the person or
business from whom the cigarettes, er?Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products were
purchased; brand name, type and total number of packages to be purchased in sequential date order,
including the amount of Consumable Product in milliliters.

(2) Delivery or receipt documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address of the person or
business to whom the cigarettes, or?Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products were delivered;
brand name, type and total number of packs delivered in sequential date order, including the amount of
Consumable Product in milliliters.

(3) Wholesale tobacco dealer sales documents, serially numbered indicating the date; name, address of the
person or business to whom the cigarettes, er?Other Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products were
sold; brand name, type and total number of packs delivered in sequential date order, including the amount
of Consumable Product in milliliters.

(4) Retail tobacco dealer sales documents, indicating in sequential date order, brand name, type and total
number of packs or amounts, includiugthe amount of Consumable in milliliters. of Other Tobacco
Productsand/or Consumable Products sold, each day.

 

(5) Retail tobacco dealer cigarette inventory reconciliation, indicating daily, weekly or beginning
inventory, purchases, sales and ending inventory, in sequential date order.

(6) Retail tobacco dealer wholesaler list, indicating the name and address of each wholesaler from
whom cigarette, eeOther Tobacco Products, and/or Consumable Products inventory was purchased; brand
name; type and total number of packs and total amount of Consumable Product in milliliters purchased
from each wholesaler.

Taxable and nontaxable transaction books and records. It shall be the duty of all wholesale tobacco dealers,
retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers and persons required by this Article to collect and/or to
pay the taxes herein imposed to keep and maintain all books, papers and records related to all transactions
taxable and nontaxable under this Article and to make such records available to the Director or a duly
authorized representative who has been appointed by the Director, on request for inspection, audit and/or
copying during regular business hours. The Department shall promulgate rules and regulations specifying the
records that shall be kept by wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers, retail cigarette manufacturers
and persons required by this Article to collect and/or pay the taxes herein imposed, and may prescribe any
forms appropriate in furtherance of this Article. Books, papers and records which relate to a return ?led or
required to be ?led with the Department shall be kept for the period as provided for in the Cook County
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq). The burden shall be on the
wholesale tobacco dealers, retail tobacco dealers and retail cigarette manufacturers to keep records which
verify the basis for any and all transactions which are claimed to be exempt from taxation pursuant to Section
74?434 of this Article.

74-440. - Inspections; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with Section 74?439 of this Article shall be made available to the

Department upon request for inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours. Representatives of the
Department shall be permitted to inspect or audit cigarette, er?Other Tobacco Products, and/ or Consumable Products
inventory in or upon any premises. An audit or inspection may include the physical examination of the cigarettes,
packaging, cigarette tax stamps, er?Other Tobacco Products, or Consumable Products. It shall be unlawful for any

Page 29 of 54

person to prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing the enforcement duties
provided in this Article. The Department shall be authorized to promulgate rules and procedures regarding
hindrance violations.

Sec. 74-441. Confiscate; seize; redemption penalty.

Con?scation; seizure. Whenever the Department or any of its duly authorized representatives shall discover
any cigarettes, andaler other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products subject to any tax provided by this
Article upon which said tax has not been paid or the stamps af?xed and cancelled as herein required, they are
hereby authorized and empowered forthwith to con?scate; seize and take possession of such cigarettes, andaler
other tobacco products, and/or Consumable Products together with any vending machine; receptacle;
container; vessel or holder in which they are held for sale except for money contained in such vending machine
or receptacle, shall thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.

Cigarette redemption penalty. The Department shall either destroy the cigarettes seized or may permit the
Wholesale Tobacco Dealer from whom the said cigarettes were seized, to redeem the cigarettes and/or any
vending machine or receptacle seized therewith, by the payment of a Redemption Penalty equal to 100 percent
of the tax due, and including the cost incurred in such proceeding. Such seizure, destruction, and sale, or
redemption shall not be deemed to relieve any person from ?ne or imprisonment provided herein for Violation
of any provision of this Article.

Sec. 74-442. - Posting of signs.

Every retail tobacco dealer shall post a Sign issued by the Department, indicating the offer to sell, the sale or
purchase of unstamped packs or loose cigarettes is unlawful. The sign shall be posted in a conspicuous location, to
anyone purchasing cigarettes, at the retailer?s place of business.

Sec. 74?443. - Wholesale tobacco dealer quarterly returns.

A sworn quarterly cigarette, andaler other tobacco products, and or Consumable Products Revenue Information
return shall be ?led by each wholesale tobacco dealer with the Department, on forms prescribed by the Department.
The return shall be ?led on or before the last day of the ?rst month followiing the preceding quarter. Every wholesale
tobacco dealer required to ?le a tax return under this Section, who does not ?le such tax return by its due date, or
alternatively does not provide all required information on such tax return, shall be subject to the penalties that are
provided for in Section 74-436 of this Article in addition to all other penalties and interest that may be due as
provided in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34-60 et seq.). Quarterly returns,
books and records, papers and original source documents that provide support for the information that is included
in the return ?led with the Department, shall be kept for the period as provided in the Cook County Uniform
Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance (Section 34?60 et seq.).

Sec. 74-444. - Failure to ?le a return and/or remit tax.
In case of failure to ?le a tax return and remit this tax when due, the Department may assess penalties and

interest as provided for in this Article and/ or the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance
(Section 34-60 et seq.).

Page 30 of 54

Sec. 74?445. - Authority to sell stamp; agents; credits/refunds.



Cigarette tax stamps. The Department shall contract for and furnish tax stamps of such denominations and
quantities as may be necessary for the payment of the tax imposed on cigarettes by this Article, and may, from
time to time, provide for the issuance and exclusive use of stamps of a new design and forbid the use of stamps
of any other design.

 

(eh) Credits or Refunds. The Department may redeem unused tax stamps lawfully on the possession of any person.

See.



Any person seeking credit and/or a refund for unused tax stamps, tax stamps af?xed to packages of cigarettes
returned to a manufacturer, or for the replacement of tax stamps, must ?le a claim in writing on forms
prescribed by the Department. This form must be ?led with the Department no later than 12 months after the
month in which the tax remittance or tax payment was made to the Department. The United States post mark
date or date of physical/actual receipt is used, by the Department, to determine if a credit or refund is ?led
timely. No person shall sell or offer for sale any stamp issued under this Article, except by written permission
of the Department. The Department may prescribe rules and regulations concerning refunds, sales of stamps
and redemption under the provisions of this Article.

74-446. - Single state and county stamp and tax return.

Single state and county stamp. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection Section 74-435, and
Subsection 74-445(a) of this Article, the Department may provide by regulation that the tax imposed by this
Article shall, in the alternative, be collected by means of the issuance and sale of a single tax stamp to be
prepared jointly with the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the
City of Chicago) evidencing the payment of the tax imposed by this Article. Toward that end, the Department
may make such arrangements and agreements with the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or
the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) as may be required with respect to the method of acquiring,
af?xing, canceling and the manner of sharing the cost of such joint single tax stamps, and may establish
procedures for payment of that portion of the tax revenue collected by the Department of Revenue of the State
of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) due and payable to the County of Cook, in
furtherance of the purposes of this Article. In the event such alternative method as herein provided is utilized,
no other method of collecting said tax may be used within the relevant jurisdiction; however, all other
applicable provisions of this Article shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect.

Page 31 of 54



See.

(3)

tax return. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection Section 74-435, Subsection 74-
445(a) and subsection of this Section, the Department may provide by regulation that the tax imposed on
cigarettes by this Article, in the alternative, shall be collected by means of the ?ling of a sworn tax return to
be prepared and ?led by every wholesale tobacco dealer who sells cigarettes for consumption in the County of
Cook. Said return shall be ?led on a basis and shall contain the same information required by
Subsection 74-445(b) of this Article. Said return shall be ?led with the Department on or before the ?fteenth
day of each month stating such other and further information as may be required by the Department, and said
return shall be accompanied by a certi?ed check in the amount of the tax due and payable upon such taxable
sales made by said wholesale tobacco dealer in the County of Cook during the preceding month. In the event
such alternative method is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax may be used; however, all other
applicable provisions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect with the exception of the necessity of
?ling a quarterly tax return as provided in Section 74-443 of this Article, which shall not be required.

74-447. - Rulemaking.

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, de?nitions, and regulations necessary to carry out the duties
imposed upon it by this Article. Such rules, de?nitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to,
reasonable procedures consistent with existing practices of wholesale tobacco and retail tobacco dealers for
collection and remittance of the tax herein levied.

(C)





(D

.


theatre?date.?

 

Within 30 days after the effective date of this Article every wholesale tobacco dealer doing business in the
County of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inVentory of cigarettes in
their possession or control on March 1, 2013. With said inventory, the wholesale tobacco dealer shall submit
a Department issued tax return and pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional
taxes due as a result of this Article, as amended, with respect to all stamped cigarettes which were in such
wholesale tobacco dealer's possession on March 1, 2013.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this Article every retail tobacco dealer doing business in the County
of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of cigarettes in their
possession or control on March 1, 2013. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall submit a
Department issued tax return and pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any additional
taxes due as a result of this Article, as amended, with respect to all cigarettes which were in such retail tobacco
dealer's possession on March 1, 2013.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this Article every retail tobacco dealer doing business in the County
of Cook shall ?le with the Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of tobacco products in
their possession or control on June 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook
County Collector the taxes due, including any additional taxes due as a result of this Article, as amended, with
respect to all tobacco products which were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on June 1, 2006.

Every retail tobacco dealer required to ?le a tax return under this Section who does not ?le such tax return by
its due date, or alternatively does not provide all required information on such tax return, or fails to pay all

required tax due computed thereon, shall be subject to a penalty of $1,000.00 per business location required to

Page 32 0f 54

be reported on the tax return, in addition to all other penalties and interest that may be due under the provisions
of Chapter 34, Article Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures and Section 74-436 of this Article.

Sec. 74-448. - Transmittal of excess tax collections.

In the event a wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer collects an amount
in excess of the tax imposed by this Article, as amended, which amount is purported to be a collection thereof, and
said wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette manufacturer fails to return the said excess
amount to the purchaser who paid the tax, the said wholesale tobacco dealer, retail tobacco dealer or retail cigarette
manufacturer who collected the tax shall account for and pay over all such excess amounts to the Department along
with the tax properly collected.

Sec. 74-449. - Deposit of tax proceeds.

All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this Article, including penalties, shall be paid to
the Department. The Department shall direct every dollar collected from the 2013 increase in the rate of the Home
Rule Tobacco Tax to be deposited into the funds of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System for Fiscal Year
2013 as approved by the Budget Director. Deposit of tax proceeds following Fiscal Year 2013 shall be deposited
into various funds and/or accounts as prescribed by the Budget Director.

Sec. 74-450. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provision of this Article or whenever this Article is silent, the provisions
of the uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance, Article 111, Chapter 34 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances shall apply and supplement this Article.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this Ordinance

Amendment be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman: Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore,
Goslin, Murphy, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (12)

Nays: Commissioners: Morrison and Schneider (2)
Present: Commissioner Fritchey (1)
Absent: Commissioners Garcia and Steele (2)

Page 33 of 54

1 5-6279
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Of?ce of the President

Other Part(ies): County Of?cers? and Employees? Annuity and Bene?t Fund of Cook County (the ?Pension
Fund?)

Request: Authorization for the Cook County Board President to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Pension Fund. The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the long-term ?scal sustainability
of the Cook County Pension Fund by establishing a mechanism by which the County can disburse to the Pension
Fund additional funding in FY 2016, independent and in addition to such sum as is provided for in Section 9?169
of the Illinois Pension Code (40 ILCS 

Goods or Services: 

Agreement Number(s): 

Agreement Period: Effective upon execution and valid through 11/30/2016
Fiscal Impact: $270,526,000.00

Accounts: 490-818

Summary: The proposed Intergovernmental Agreement with the Pension Fund for FY 2016 will
authorize the Chief Financial Of?cer to disburse $270,526,000.00 in additional funds to the Pension Fund in
accordance with the payment schedule provided in the agreement. The additional funds provided herein for
FY2016 are separate and apart from the County?s contribution to the Fund as provided in Section 9-169 of the
Illinois Pension Code (40 ILCS The disbursement of such additional funds will be contingent upon
inclusion and passage of the County?s 2016 annual appropriation bill. Per the IGA, the Pension Fund has also
agreed to provide the County Board President and Commissioners, on or before 6/15/2016, a written report
cOntaining information as is associated with the Pension Fund?s ?scal position, the annual cost and trends associated
with bene?t payments, investment return performance relative to benchmarks for similarly situated public pension
funds and such other information designated by the Pension Fund.

A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be amended. The motion failed by voice vote.

Page 34 of 54

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ITEM #15-6279

Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, County Commissioner

Amendment to Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement

Department: Cook County Of?ce of the President

Other Part(ies): County Officers? and Employees? Annuity and Bene?t Fund of Cook County (the ?Pension fund?)
Request: Authorization for the Cook County Board President to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Pension Fund. The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the long-term ?scal sustainability
of the Cook County Pension Fund by establishing a mechanism by which the County can disburse to the Pension

Fund additional funding in FY 2016, independent and in addition to such sum as is provided for in Section 9-169
of the Illinois Pension Code (40 ILCS 

Good or Services: 

Agreement Number(s): 

Agreement Period: Effective upon execution and valid through 11/3 0/2016

Fiscal Impact: 

Accounts: 490-818

Summary: The proposed Intergovernmental Agreement with the Pension Fund for FY 2016 will
authorize the Chief Financial Of?cer to disburse 248,026,00000 in additional funds to the
Pension Fund in accordance with the payment schedule provided in the agreement. The additional funds provided
herein for FY2016 are separate and apart from the County?s contribution to the Fund as provided in Section 9-169
of the Illinois Pension Code (40 ICS The disbursement of such additional funds will be contingent upon
inclusion and passage of the County?s 2016 annual appropriation bill. Per the IGA, the Pension Fund has also
agreed to provide the County Board President and'Commissioners, on or before 6/15/2016, a written report
containing information as is associated with the Pension Fund?s ?scal position, the annual cost and trends associated

with bene?t payments, investment return performance relative to benchmarks for similarly situated public pension
funds and such other information designated by the Pension Fund.

Legislative History: 10/28/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Finance Committee

A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be amended. The motion failed by the following vote:

Ayes: Commissioners: Fritchey, Gainer, Murphy and Suffredin (4)

Nays: Chairman: Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Goslin
Moore, Moorison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (11)

Page 35 of 54

Absent: Commissioners: Garcia and Steele (2)

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO ITEM #15?6279
(Finance Committee 11-13-15)

Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, LARRY SUFFREDIN, and JOHN A. FRITCHEY, County
Commissioners

WW
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN COOK COUNTY AND THE COUNTY
AND EMPLOYEES ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND

This Memorandum of Understanding lateagevemmenlal?Agreement MOU Agreement% is
made by and between the County of Cook, a body of politic and corporate and home-rule unit of
government under the Constitution and laws of the State of Illinois, having its principal of?ces at 118 N.
Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois 60602 (the ?County?), by and through the President of the Cook County
Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and the County Of?cers? and
Employees? Annuity and Bene?t Fund of Cook County (the ?Pension Fund?), a body politic and corporate
established pursuant to 40 ILCS 5/9-101. having its principal of?ces at 33 North Dearborn, Suite 1000,

Chicago, Illinois 60602, by and through the President of the Pension Fund?s Board of Trustees

(collectively, 

I. RECITALS

 

WHEREAS, Article VII, Section 10 of the Illinois 
. and other applicable law permit and encourage units?of

governmental entities to contract cooperate with and?5111919914 each other and other public and private
entities in the exercise of their governmental authority and the performance of their governmental
functions and responsibilities; and

 

 

WHEREAS, the Pension Fund is governed by the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-101, et seq. and
Section 9-196 of the Illinois Pension Code gives its Board of Trustees exclusive and original jurisdiction
in all matters relating to the Pension Fund; and

WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, and the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund are desirous of the promoting the long-
terrn ?scal sustainability of the Cook County Pension Fund; and

WHEREAS, as of December 31, 2014, the Pension Fund?s actuarially projected shortfalls associated with
pension liabilities were determined to exceed $5 billion dollars thereby rendering the Pension Fund
insolvent by 2039 under the current statutory ?nance-and-bene?t framework; and

WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, beginning with as?part?ef the 2016 budget recommendations and the Cook County FY

Page 36 of 54

2016 Appropriation Bill and each succeeding ?scal year thereafter, desire to make a?paymentg to the
Pension Fund that are in addition to the payment required under Section 9-169 of the Illinois Pension Code
and the Pension Fund agrees to accept such payments (?Additional Funds?); and

WHEREAS, the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?Forest Preserve?) is a body politic separate
and apart from the County and is required to make contributions to the Forest Preserve District Employee?s
Annuity and Bene?t Fund (?Forest Fund?) pursuant to Section 10-107 of the Illinois Pension Code through
its own authority to levy an annual tax; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund is statutorily authorized to act on behalf of the
Forest Fund, but insofar as the Cook County Board of Commissioners has no authority to act on behalf of
the Forest Preserve or the Forest Fund, this Agreement MOU shall apply only to the Pension Fund.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, covenants, term and conditions set forth in this
Agreement MOU, the parties agree as follows:

1.Inc0rporati0n of Recitals. The above recitals are incorporated into this Agreement MOU as if fully set
forth herein.

2.Purp0se. The purpose of this Agreement is to promote the long-term ?scal sustainability of the
Pension Fund by establishing a mechanism by which the County can disburse to the Pension Fund frem
revenues received by the County from its 2015 1% increase in its Retailers Occupation Tax and Service
Occupation Tax and the Pension Fund can receive from the County, independent and in addition to such
sum as is provided for in Section 9-169 of the Illinois Pension Code (40 LCS beginning with
the sum of $270,526,000.00 in 2016 and not less than the minimum required amount to amortize the
Pension Funds accrued Iiabilitv on a 30-year basis starting in 2017 and each vear thereafter as
calculated by its independent actuarv and submitted by the Pension Fund so long as the amount does not
exceed 90% of the total revenue received by the County from its 2015 Retailers Occupation and Service
Occupation 1% tax increase (the ?Additional Funds?). These funds shall be disbursed no later than
November 30. 2016 and not later than November 30 each succeeding ?scal year thereaft?, in the
manner as is set forth herein, and as otherwise feasible, practicable, and permissible under relevant law
and to the degree permitted by the County?s annual PALE-16 aAppropriations bBill.

3. Scope. This Agreement does not suggest or imply, nor shall it be construed as suggesting or
implying, that it entails or implicates any undertakings, responsibilities, or obligations on the part of the
parties except as set forth herein. - . - -
wree?anng?r el-aIwe

- -. - . - . - -. -. . It 1s the express
intent of the Parties that no third- -party shall have any rights under this Agreement_ MOU, including the
right to enforce the terms of this Agreement MOU.

 

 

4.Presentati0n of Information to County Board President and Commissioners. In accordance with
the President of the Cook County Board?s 2016 budget recommendation to appropriate additional funding

Page 37 of 54

in excess of the statutory basis contained in Section 9-169 of the Illinois Pension Code, the Pension Fund
agrees to provide the County Board President and Commissioners, on or before June 15, 2016, and on or
before June 15 of each succeeding ?scal yea; with a written report containing information as is associated
with the Pension Fund?s ?scal position, the annual cost and trends associated with bene?t payments,
investment return performance relative to benchmarks for similarly situated public pension funds and such
other information designated by the Pension Fund.

5.Disbursement of Additional Funds to Pension Fund. Following adoption of the County?s FY 2016
Appropriation Bill and each annual appropriation bill thereafter, the County shall take such steps as?are
Wand?pram upon receipt of the revenues received by the County from the Retailers?
Occupation and Service Occupation Tax to disburse, independent of and in addition to such sum as is
provided for in Section 9? 169 of the Illinois Pension code (40 ILCS 5/9- 169), and Additional Funds to the
Pension Fund no later than November 30, 2016 and November 30 of each succeeding ?scal yearr?te?the

 

5.1Timing of Disbursement of Additional Funds. Subject to subsection 5.2 of this MOU, the
Chief Financial Of?cer shall disburse the Additional Funds to the Pension Fund on a basis
beginning on April 29, 2016 in the amount of $25,668,00000. Subsequent disbursements of the Additional
Funds shall be made as follows: $25,555,000.00 on May 31, 2016; $30,542,000.00 on June 30, 2016;
$30,157,000.00 on July 28, 2016; $32,297,000.00 on August 31, 2016; $34,320,000.00 on September 30,
2016; $32,469,000.00 on October 30, 2016; and $59,518,000.00 on or before November 30, 2016.
Disbursements of Additional Funds shall be made on April 29. May 31, June 30, Julv 28. August 31.
September 30, October 3] and November 30, ol'each succeeding ?scal year on ?1 similar prorated basis or
as otherwise agreed by both parties.

5. 2Disbursement Authority. The parties agree that nothing in this Agreement_ MOU shall require
the County to make disbursements to the Fund that violate court orders or are otherwise prohibited by
lawWW?Wmmk?mw?uwmanW


6.Limitati0ns on Use of Additional Funds. The Pension Fund represents that the Additional Funds
received from the County under Section 5 of this Agreement MOU, and any earnings or interest derived
therefrom, shall be invested in a manner consistent with the Illinois Pension Code and the Pension Funds
ilnvestment pPolicy, both of which include, but are not limited to, the inherent obligation of the Pension
Fund to adhere to prudent man principals of investment and shall be used by the Pension Fund to reduce
the unfunded pension liabilities of the Pension Fund.

7.Future Additional Fund Requests. The Pension Fund agrees that during Fiscal Year 2016 it Will
provide a calculation of additional funds calculated by its independent actuary on the basis of the amount
needed to amortize the Fund?s Pension Liability on a 30-year basis starting in 2017 and concluding in
2046, with said amortization payments re?ecting an annual escalation factor of two-percent, and re?ecting
a discount rate for all liabilities consistent with the assumed investment rate of return on fund assets and

?ve-year smoothing of the value of actuarial assets. 




Page 38 of 54

 agreements?wattle

-

I

   

Such estimate prepared by the independent actuary relating to such
additional funds by the Pension Fund be
submitted to the County?s Chief Financial Of?cer and the Cook County Board of Commissioners on or
before June 15, 2016 and on 1:11 belore 1111c 15 of each iISC'dl vein 

-- .- - law
8.No Right, Interest, Expectation, Reliance, Waiver or Release. The provision for the Additional Funds
in this Agreement: MOU and any action taken by the County relative to or associated with said Additional
Funds shall not suggest or imply, and shall not be construed as suggesting or implying, that by virtue of
this Agreemenr MOU the County either has or has assumed an obligation, continuing obligation,
responsibility, or duty to the Pension Fund, its trustees, or its participants, or the Pension Fund, its
trustees, or its participants have continuing right to, an interest in or reason to rely on such provisions or
action, except as provided 1n this The acceptance of the
Additional Funds through this Agreement MOU shall not be construed as a waiver or release of the
Pension Fund?s rights against the County in relation to any obligations the County may have under the
Illinois Pension Code and the Illinois Constitution.

9. General Conditions and Miscellaneous Term

9.1Term. This Agreement MOU shall commence on the date of execution by the Parties and shall
remain in force and effect until terminated. through?Nevember?QTZO?l??

9.2Expenses. Each party to this Agreement MOU shall bear its own costs of carrying out this
Agreement MOU. No party shall seek to charge or obtain reimbursement from the other party for any
costs associated with this Agreement MOU.

9.3Amendments. The Parties may from time to time, during the term of this Agreement MOU,
amend this Agreement MOU, but only through written agreement of both Parties.

9.4Termination. A?party The Cook County Board of Conunissioners and the Pension Fund each
may terminate its involvement with this Agreemenr MOU upon 30 days? written notice to the other party,
submitted to those persons identi?ed in Section 9.6. A termination notice from the Cook County Board of
Commissioners and the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners shall be issued from the
Secretary of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

9. 5E nforceability Germant?Net?Te?Sue. The Parties covenant and agree that the provisions of
Agreement the are not enforceable as between them ?but not as between either of them and or?as
betweenanythirdparty?u - - - -. .. 

 

Page 39 of 54

9.6N0tice. All formal notices or other communications associated with this Agreement MOU shall
be in writing and addressed to the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Cook
County Board of Commissioners, the President of the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund and each of
its individual Trustees, the Chief Financial Of?cer of the County, and the Executive Director of the
Pension Fund at their respective addresses set forth below, as may be from time to time modified in writing
by the parties, by any of the following means: personal services, email; or (0) United States mail,
registered or certi?ed return requested.

Cook County Board President
118 N. Clark Street, Room 537
Chicago, IL 60602

Cook County Board of Commissioners
Cook County Building, Room 567

118 North Clark Street

Chicago, IL 60601

 

Cook County Chief Financial Officer
Cook County Building, Suite 1128
118 N. Clark Street

Chicago, IL 60601

[van 3311'] stci nruicookcnu Im-?i .gnv

 

President of Board of Trustees
Cook County Pension Fund

33 North Dearborn, Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602

Executive Director ofthe Pension Fund
33 North Dearborn, Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602
nhacket@countvpension.com

With a copy to each:

Trustee of the Retirement Board
Cook County Pension Fund

33 N. Dearborn Street, Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602

9.7Compliance with Laws. The Parties shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules

and regulations and executive orders of the federal, state and local government now existing or later in
effect, that may in any manner affect the performance of this Agreement MOU.

Page 40 of 54

9.88everability. In the event that any provision of this Agree-meet MOU is deemed to be invalid
by reason of the operation of any law or by reason of the interpretation placed thereon by any court or any
other governmental body, this Agreement MOU shall be construed as not containing such provision and
any and all other provisions hereof which otherwise are lan and valid shall remain in full force and
effect.

9.9Interpretation. Any headings of this Agreement MOU are for convenience or reference only
and do not define or limit the provisions thereof. Words of gender shall be deemed and construed to
include correlative words of other genders. Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice
versa unless the context shall otherwise indicate. All reference to any such person or entity shall be deemed
to include any person or entity succeeding to the rights, duties, and obligations of such person or entity in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement MOU. A reference to the County includes
the County?s of?cers, commissioners, employees, attorneys, agents and assigns.

9.10Governing Law. This Agreemeet- MOU shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Illinois.

9.11Counterparts. This Agreement MOU may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which when taken together shall be deemed to be one
and the same instrument.

9.12Entire Agreement. This Agreement MOU constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with
respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all other prior and contemporary agreements,
understandings, representations, negotiations, and commitments between them with respect to the subject

matter hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereto caused their duly authorized representatives to
execute this MOU on the dates hereafter set forth below.

COOK COUNTY EXECUTION: The undersigned, on behalf of the County of Cook, Illinois, a?bedy

accepts the foregoing WW
MOU:

PENSION FUND EXECUTION: The undersigned, on behalf of the Pension Fund,?a?beely?peiit?ie?end
eerperateoiiheSteie?eHllineis, hereby accepts the foregoing IntergoyemmentaiAgreement MOU:

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this
Intergovernmental Agreement be recommended for approval. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman: Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Moorison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski (l 6)

Absent: Commissioners: Steele (1)

Page 41 of 54

15-6468
Sponsored by; TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P.
DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA, STANLEY MOORE, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE and JEFFREY R.
TOBOLSKI, County Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
74 - Taxation, Article XXI. Hotel Accommodations Tax, Section 74-800 through 74-807 be enacted as follows:

Article XXI. Hotel Accommodations Tax

Sec. 74?800. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Hotel Accommodations Tax Ordinance and the
tax herein imposed shall be known as the Cook County Hotel Accommodations Tax.

Sec. 74-801. De?nitions.

For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or de?nitions are used herein, they
shall have the meaning ascribed in this section:

County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue of the County of Cook.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Gross rental or leasing charge means the gross amount of consideration for the use or privilege of using hotel
accommodations in Cook County, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash,
credits, property and services, determined without any deduction for costs or expenses whatsoever, but not including
charges that are added to the charge or fee on account of the tax imposed by this article or on account of any other
tax imposed on the charge or fee. Gross rental or leasing charge shall exclude separately stated optional charges
not for the use or privilege of using hotel accommodations.

Hotel accommodations means, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a room or rooms in any building or
structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment
hotel, lodging house, bed-and-breakfast establishment, dormitory or similar place, where sleeping, rooming, office,
conference or exhibition accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals. Hotel
accommodations shall not include (1) an accommodation where the person renting or leasing as the lessee occupies
the accommodation as his domicile and permanent residence; or (2) any temporary accommodation provided in
any building or structure owned or operated, directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of a not-for-pro?t medical
institution, hospital, or allied educational institution.

Page 42 of 54

Operator means any person who has the right to rent or lease hotel accommodations to the public for
consideration or who, directly or indirectly, receives or collects the price, charge or rent paid for the rental or lease
of hotel accommodations. This term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the business of selling or
reselling to the public the right to occupy hotel accommodations, whether on-line, in person or otherwise. The term
also includes persons engaged in the business of facilitating the rental or lease of hotel accommodations for
consideration, whether on-line, in person or otherwise.

Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government, governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Sec. 74-802. Tax imposed.

Effective May 1, 2016, a tax is hereby imposed on the use of any hotel accommodations in Cook County at
the rate of one percent of the gross rental or leasing charge. The tax is to be paid by the lessee or tenant of
any hotel accommodations, and nothing in this article shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of
renting, leasing or letting hotel accommodations.

The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied in this article is to be borne by the lessee
or tenant of such hotel accommodations.

It shall be deemed a violation of this article for any owner, manager or operator to fail to include the tax
imposed in this article in the price of the hotel accommodations to otherwise absorb the tax.

The tax levied in this article shall be collected by the owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations in
Cook County and remitted to Cook County.

Any owner, manager or operator responsible to remit the tax levied by this article to the Department, shall
collect the tax from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price, charge or rent to which it applies. Every lessee
or tenant shall be given a bill, invoice or receipt or other statement of memorandum of the price, charge or rent
payable upon which the hotel tax shall be stated, charged and shown separately. The tax shall be paid to the owner,
manager or operator as trustee for and on behalf of the County.

The tax imposed by this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the government of the United
States, the State, or by any unit of local government.

Sec. 74-803. Operator registration and remittance.

Every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations in Cook County must register with the
Department, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Department, within 30 days after the effective date
of this ordinance, and after such 30 days has passed, prior to providing hotel accommodations in the County.

Every owner, manager or operator or hotel accommodations in Cook County shall ?le each month with the
Department a sworn tax return, in such form as prescribed and furnished by the Department, on or before the 20th
day of the month following the month for which the return is due. Each return shall show the tax receipts received
with respect to hotel accommodation space rented or leased during the preceding period and shall be
accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of applicable tax. The remittance shall be made payable to
the County Collector. Registered owners, managers and operators must ?le a return even if no tax is due.

(0) The tax required in this article to be collected by any owner, manager or operator pursuant to this article shall
constitute a debt owed by the operator to the County.

Page 43 of 54

Sec. 74-804. Books and records to be kept.

It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or operator of hotel accommodations in the County to keep and
maintain accurate books, papers and records showing the prices, rents or charges made or charged, and occupancies
taxable under this ordinance. Such books and records must be made available to the Department on request for
inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours.

Books, papers and records which relate to a return ?led or required to be ?led with the Department shall be
kept for a period as provided for in Chapter 34, Article Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

Sec. 74-805. Violations and penalties.

Any violation of this article, as amended, shall be considered unlawful. Any person determined to have violated
this article, shall be subject to a ?ne of $1,000.00 for the ?rst offense and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and
each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offenses shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said
person shall continue any such violation or permit any such Violation to exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this article for any person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the
Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article shall in no way bar the right of the County to institute
civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and/or penalties due and owing as well as costs incurred for
such proceeding.

Sec. 74-806. Application of Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this article is silent, theprovisions of the
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Article Chapter 34 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances shall apply and supplement this article.

Sec. 74-807. Rulemaking.

The Department is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce reasonable rules, de?nitions and regulations
pertaining to the interpretation, collection, administration and enforcement of this article. Such rules, definitions,
and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable procedures consistent with existing practices in the
industry for collection and remittance of the tax levied in this article upon the user of hotel accommodations.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect and in full force upon its passage.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, to suspend the rules to take
out of order. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman: Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Moorison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and
Tobolski (16)

Absent: Commissioners: Steele 

Page 44 of 54

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO FILE 15-6468

Changes shown in bold with double strikeouts and underlines
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
74 - Taxation, Article XXI. Hotel Accommodations Tax, Section 74-800 through 74-807 be enacted as follows:

Sec. 74-801. De?nitions.

For the purpose of this article, whenever any of the following words, terms or de?nitions are used herein, they
shall have the meaning ascribed in this section:

County means the County of Cook.
Department means the Department of Revenue of the County of Cook.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Gross rental or leasing charge means the gross amount of consideration for the use or privilege of using hotel
accommodations in Cook County, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash,
credits, property and services, determined without any deduction for costs or expenses whatsoever, but not including
charges that are added to the charge or fee on account of the tax imposed by this article or on account of any other
tax imposed on the charge or fee. Gross rental or leasing charge shall exclude separately stated optional charges
not for the use or privilege of using hotel accommodations.

Hotel accommodations means, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a room or rooms in any building or
structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to the public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment

hotel, lodging house, bed-and-breakfast establishment, gasation rental of condominiums, apartments or
housesa dormitory or similar place, where sleeping, rooming, of?ce, conference or exhibition accommodations
are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals. Hotel accommodations shall not include (1) an
accommodation where the person renting or leasing as the lessee occupies the accommodation as his domicile and
permanent residencegeorr (2)7any temporary accommodationiprovided in any building or. structure owned or
operated, directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of a not-for-pro?t medical institution, hospital, or allied
educational institution.

Operator means any person who has the right to rent or lease hotel accommodations to the public for
consideration or who, directly or indirectly, receives or collects the price, charge or rent paid for the rental or lease
of hotel accommodations. This term includes, but is not limited to, persons engaged in the business of selling or
reselling to the public the right to occupy hotel accommodations, whether on-line, in person or otherwise. The term
also includes persons engaged in the business of facilitating the rental or lease of hotel accommodations for
consideration, whether on-line, in person or otherwise.

Page 45 of 54

Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government, governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect and in full force upon its passage.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, that this Ordinance be
recommended for approval as amended. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Garcia,
Goslin, Moore, Murphy and Tobolski (10)

Nays: Commissioners Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider Silvestri and Suffredin (6)

Absent: Commissioners: Steele (1)

15-6469
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner, and TONI PRECKWINKLE, President

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FIREARM AND FIREARM AMMUNITION TAX

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter
74 - Taxation, Article XX. Firearm Tax, Section 74-665 through 74-676 be amended as follows:

ARTICLE XX. - FIREARM AND FIREARM AMMUNITION TAX
Sec. 74-665. - Short title.

This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Firearm and Firearm Ammunition Tax
Ordinance.?

 

Sec. 74-666. - De?nitions.

The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Firearm shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Illinois Firearm Owners Identi?cation Act, 430 ILCS
65/1 . 1, or any successor statute.

Firearm ammunition shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Illinois Firearm Owners Identi?cation Card
Act, 430 ILCS 65/l.l, or any successor statute.

 

(fer-Hermie (Henna-ri?e? means ?rearm ammunition that is characterized by a [Limer in the center oflhe base of the
cartridge, commonly used in ri?es, pistols and revolvers.

Page 46 of 54

Department means the Department of Revenue in the Bureau of Finance of Cook County.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Person means any means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other legal
entity.

Purchaser means any person who purchases a ?rearm or ?rearm ammunition in a retail purchase in the county.

Retail dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling ?rearms or ?rearm ammunition on a retail
level in the county or to a person in the county.

Retail purchase means any transaction in which a person in the county acquires ownership by tendering
consideration on a retail level.

Rim?re ammunition means ?rearm ammunition that is characterized by a primer that encircles the rim
of the cartridge, including, but not limited to .22 caliber ammunition.

Sherijjr means the Sheriffs Of?ce of Cook County, Illinois.

Sec. 74-667. - Registration.

Any retail dealer as de?ned in this article shall register with the Department in the form and manner as prescribed
by the Department. Policies, rules and procedures for the registration process and forms shall be prescribed by the
Department.

Sec. 74-668. - Tax imposed, rates.

Firearm Tax Rate. A tax is hereby imposed on the retail purchase of a ?rearm as de?ned in this Article in the
amount of $25.00 for each ?rearm purchased.

Firearm Amnranitian liar Rate. Effective June I, 2016 a LED: is hereby imposed on the retail purchase of
?rearm ammunition as de?ned in this article at the following rates:

(1)Center?re ammunition shall be taxed at a rate of$0.05 ner cartridge.
(2) Martin: ammunition shall be laser] at a rate of$0?  per_earlridge.

(gLTax Included in Sales Price. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for a retail dealer to fail to include the
tax imposed in this Article in the sale price of ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition to otherwise absorb such tax.
The tax levied in this article shall be imposed is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the County of Cook, the
State of Illinois, or any municipal corporation or political subdivision of any of the foregoing.

Page 47 of 54

Sec. 74-669. - Tax-exempt purchases and refunds.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in accordance with rules that shall be promulgated by the
department in regards to tax exempt purchases, retail dealers shall not collect the ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition
tax when the ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition is being sold to the following:

(1) An of?ce, division, or agency of the United States, the State of Illinois, or any municipal
corporation or political subdivision, including the Armed Forces of the United States or
National Guard.

(2) A bona ?de veterans organization which receive ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition directly
from the Armed Forces of the United States and uses said ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition
strictly and solely for ceremonial 

(3) Any active sworn law enforcement of?cer purchasing a ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition for
of?cial or training related purposes presenting an of?cial law enforcement identi?cation card
at the time of purchase.

In accordance with rules to be promulgated by the department, an active member of the Armed Forces of the
United States, National Guard or deputized law enforcement of?cer may apply for a refund from the department
for the tax paid on a ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition that was purchased for of?cial use or training related
purposes.

(0) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Article, in accordance with rules that shall be promulgated bv the
department in regards to tax exempt purchase. retail dealers shall not collect ?rearm ammunition tax on blank
ammunition.

Sec. 74-670. - Collection and remittance.

Tax Collection. Any retail dealer shall collect the taxes imposed by this Article from any purchaser to whom
the sale of said ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition is made within the County of Cook and shall remit to the
Department the tax levied by this Article.

Tax Remittance. It shall be the duty of every retail dealer to remit the tax due on the sales of ?rearms and/or
?rearm ammunition purchased in Cook County, on forms prescribed by the Department, on or before the 20th day
of the month following the month in which the ?rearm a_n_d/or ?rearm ammunition sale occurred on a form and in
the manner required by the department.

(0) If for any reason a retailer dealer fails to collect the tax imposed by this article from the purchaser, the purchaser
shall ?le a return and pay the tax directly to the department, on or before the date required by Subsection of this
Section.

Sec. 74-671. - Violations and penalties.

It shall be a violation of this Article for any retail dealer to sell ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammuniticm without
collecting and remitting the tax imposed in this Article.

b) It shall be a violation of this Article for any retail dealer fail to keep books and records as required in this
Article.

Page 48 of 54

 It shall be a violation of this Article for any purchaser to fail to remit the tax imposed in this Article when not
collected by the retail dealer.

Any person determined to have violated this Article, shall be subject to a ?ne in the amount of $1,000.00 for
the ?rst offense, and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any
such violation to exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department.

Sec. 74-672. - Required books and records.

Every person who is subject to this tax shall keep and maintain accurate and complete documents, books, and
records of each transaction or activity subject to or exempted by this ordinance, from start to complete, including
all original source documents. All such books and records shall be kept as provided in Chapter 34, Article of
the Uniform Penalties, Interest, and Procedures Ordinance, and shall, at all reasonable times during normal
business hours, be open to inspection, audit, or copying by the department and its agents.

Sec. 74-673. - Inspection; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with this Article shall be made available to the Department upon request for
inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours. Representatives of the Department shall be
permitted to inspect or audit ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition inventory in or upon any premises. It shall be
unlawful for any person to prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing the
enforcement duties provided in this Article.

Sec. 74-674. - Application of uniform penalties, interest, and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article, or whenever this Article is silent, the provisions of
the Uniform Penalties, Interest, and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances, shall apply to and supplement this Article.

Sec. 74-675. - Rulemaking; policies, procedures, rules, forms.

The department may promulgate policies, procedures, rules, de?nitions and forms to carry out the duties imposed
by this Article as well as pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Article.

Sec. 74-676. - Enforcement, department and sheriff.

The department is authorized to enforce this Article, and the Sheriff is authorized to assist the department in said
enforcement.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon passage.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to suspend the rules to take
out of order. The motion carried by voice vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners: Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin
and Tobolski (16)

Page 49 of 54

Absent: Commissioner Steele 

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to waive the 24 rules.

The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners: Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin
and Tobolski (16)

Absent: Commissioner Steele (1)

Item #15?6469 - Amended
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

FIREARM AND FIREARM AMMUNITION TAX

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 74
- Taxation, Article XX. Firearm Tax, Section 74- 665 through 74- 676 be enacted as follows:

ARTICLE XX. - FIREARM AND FIREARM AMMUNITION TAX

Sec. 74-665. - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Cook County Firearm and Firearm Ammunition

TaxOrdinance.?

Sec. 74?666. - De?nitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Article, sha 11 have the meanings ascribed tothem in

this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Firearm shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Illinois Firearm Owners Identi?cation Act, 430 ILCS 65/
I. I, or any successor statute.

Firearm ammunition shall have the same meaning as set forth the Illinois Firearm Owners Identi?cation Card
Act. 430 ILCS 65/ l. l, or any successor statute.

 

 

L'emerfircr? ammunition means ?rearm ammunition that is characterized [1v :1 primer in the center of the base of the
cartridge.

 

 

Department means the Department of Revenue in the Bureau of Finance of Cook County.
Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Person means any means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization,government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership association and any other legal entity.

Purchaser means any person who purchases a ?rearm or ?rearm ammunition in a retail purchase in the
county.

Page 50 of 54

Retail dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling ?rearms or ?rearm ammunition ona retail
level in the county or to a person in the county.

Retail purchase means any transaction in which a person in the county acquires ownership by tendering
consideration on a retail level.

if!" 35?; ?Humming? means ?rearm ammunition that is characterized bvaprimer that completely encircles the rim

of the cartridge.

 

Sheri? means the Sheriffs Of?ce of Cook County, Illinois.

Sec. 74?667. - Registration.

Any retail dealer as de?ned in this article shall register with the Department in the form and manner as prescribed
by the Department. Policies, rules and procedures for the registration process and forms shall be prescribed by the
Department.

Sec. 74-668. - Tax imposed, rates.

Firearm Tax Rate. A tax is hereby imposed on the retail purchase of a ?rearm as de?ned in thisArticle in the
amount of $25.00 for each ?rearm purchased.

Firearm Ammunition Tax Rate. Effective June 1, 201a a tax is hereby imposed on the retail ntn'chase 01"tircarm
ammunition as de?ned in this article at the following rates:

(I) Centeri?ire ammunition shall be taxed at a rate of$0.05 per cartridge.

(2) Rim?re ammunition shall be taxed granite of $0.0 1 nor cartridge.

 

(0) Tax Included in Sales Price. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for a retail dealer to fail to include
the tax imposed in this Article in the sale price of ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition to otherwise absorb such
tax. The tax levied in this article shall be imposed is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the County of Cook,
the State of Illinois, or any municipal corporation or political subdivision of any of the foregoing.

Sec. 74-669. - Tax-exempt purchases and refunds.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in accordance with rules that shall be promulgated by the
department in regards to tax exempt purchases, retail dealers shall not collect the ?rearm and/ or ?rearm ammunition
tax when the ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition is being sold to the following:

(1) An of?ce, division, or agency of the United States, the State of Illinois, or any municipal corporation or political
subdivision, including the Armed Forces of the United States or National Guard.

(2) A bona ?de veterans organization which receive ?rearms and/or directly from the Armed
Forces of the United States and uses said ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition strictly and solely for ceremonial
purposes with blank ammun?on.

 

(3) Any active sworn law enforcement of?cer purchasing a ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition for of?cial or
training related purposes presenting an of?cial law enforcement identi?cation card at the time of purchase.

Page 51 of 54

 In accordance with rules to be promulgated by the department, an active member of the Armed Forces of the
United States, National Guard or deputized law enforcement of?cer may apply for a refund from the department
for the tax paid on a ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition that was purchased for of?cial use or training related
purposes.

Notwithstanding any other provl slon in this Article, in accordance with rules that shall be promulgated by the
department in regards to tax exempt purchase, retail dealers shall not collect ?rearm ammunition tax on blank

ammunition.
Sec. 74-670. - Collection and remittance.

Tax Collection. Any retail dealer shall collect the taxes imposed by this Article from any purchaser to whom the
sale of said ?rearms and/or ?_rearm ammunition is made within the County of Cook and shall remit to the
Department the tax levied by this Article.

Tax Remittance. It shall be the duty of every retail dealer to remit the tax due on the sales of ?rearms and/or
?rearm ammunition purchased in Cook County, on forms prescribed by the Department, on or before the 20th day
of the month following the month in which the ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunitm sale occurred on a form and in
the manner required by the department.

 

 

If for any reason a retailer dealer fails to collect the tax imposed by this article from the purchaser,the purchaser
shall ?le a return and pay the tax directly to the department, on or before the date required by Subsection of this
Section.

Sec. 74-671. - Violations and penalties.

It shall be a violation of this Article for any retail dealer to sell ?rearms and/or ?rearm ammunition without
collecting and remitting the tax imposed in this Article.

b) It shall be a violation of this Article for any retail dealer fail to keep books and records as required in this Article.

It shall be a violation of this Article for any purchaser to fail to remit the tax imposed in this Article when not
collected by the retaiI dealer.

Any person determined to have violated this Article, shall be subject to a ?ne in the amount of $1,000.00 for the
?rst offense, and a ?ne of $2,000.00 for the second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall
be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
Violation to exist after noti?cation thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this Article for any person to knowingly
furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department.

Sec. 74?672. - Required books and records.

Every person who is subject to this tax shall keep and maintain accurate and complete documents, books, and
records of each transaction or activity subject to or exempted by this ordinance, from start to complete, including
all original source documents. All such books and records shall be kept as provided in Chapter 34, Article of
the Uniform Penalties, Interest, and Procedures Ordinance, and shall, at all reasonable times during normal business
hours, be open to inspection, audit, or copying by the department and its agents.

Page 52 of 54

Sec. 74-673. - Inspection; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with this Article shall be made available to the Department upon request for
inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours. Representatives of the Department shall be
permitted to inspect or audit ?rearm and/or ?rearm ammunition inventory in or upon any premises. It shall be

unlawful for any person to prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing the
enforcement duties provided in this Article.

Sec. 74-674. - Application of uniform penalties, interest, and procedures ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article, or whenever this Article is silent, the provisions of
the Uniform Penalties, Interest, and Procedures Ordinance, Chapter 34, Article of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances, shall apply to and supplement this Article.

Sec. 74-675. - Rulemaking; policies, procedures, rules, forms.

The department may promulgate policies, procedures, rules, de?nitions and forms to carry out the duties imposed
by this Article as well as pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Article.

Sec. 74?676. - Enforcement, department and sheriff.

The department is authorized to enforce this Article, and the Sheriff is authorized to assist the department in said
enforcement.

Sec. 74-677. -Dedication of Funds

The revenue generated as the result of the collection and remittance of the tax on ?rearm ammunition set forth
herein shall he directed to the Public Safety to fund operations related lo public safety.

Effective Date: Ordinance amendments effective upon passage.

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be amended. The motion carried by voice vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners: Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Fritchey,
Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin
and Tobolski (l6)

Absent: Commissioner Steele 

A motion was made by Commissioner Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as amended. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners: Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Garcia
Moore, Murphy and Suffredin (9)

Page 53 of 54

Nays: Commissioners Fritchey, Goslin, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Commissioners: Gainer and Steele (2)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Sims, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this meeting be

adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Arroyo. Boykin, Butler, Fritchey, Gainer,
Garcia, Goslin, Moore, Morrison, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Suffredin and Tobolski (l 6)

    
    

 

 

Absent: Commissioner Steele (1)

Respectfully submitted,
)5 
nan cretary

Page 54 of 54

