Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee Minutes
Wednesday, December 14, 2016

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Daley, García, Goslin, Moody,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (7)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
Accordance with Cook County Code.
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
17-0641
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/25/2016
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to approve
17-0641. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Daley, García, Goslin, Moody,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (7)

16-6439
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Office of the President
Other Part(ies): City of Chicago and Chicago Transit Authority
Request: Authorization to enter into and execute

 Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Transit Authority, the City of
Chicago and Cook County where the City of Chicago (“City”) agrees to tender $3,000,000.00 of the
City's motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority, and Cook County (“County”) agrees to
tender $2,000,000.00 from Cook County's motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Agreed Contribution shall be tendered to the Chicago Transit Authority on or before
12/31/2017.
Fiscal Impact: $2,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund
Summary: Per the Regional Transportation Authority Act, 70 ILCS 3615/1, et seq., and per the request
of the Chicago Transit Authority, authorization is hereby requested to enter into and execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement between the Cook County, the City of Chicago and the Chicago Transit
Authority.
Pursuant to the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement, the City of Chicago (“City”) agrees to tender
$3,000,000.00 of the City's motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority and Cook County
(“County”) agrees to tender to the Chicago Transit Authority $2,000,000.00 from Cook County's motor
fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority. The agreed contribution by the City and the County are
to be remitted to the Chicago Transit Authority prior to 12/31/2017; said funds tendered are to be used by
the Chicago Transit Authority for public transportation purposes.
It is hereby requested that that the Cook County Board President be authorized to execute the Proposed
Intergovernmental Agreement and that the Cook County Comptroller be authorized to tender the
County’s agreed contribution from the motor fuel tax funds to the Chicago Transit Authority in
accordance with the terms of the Intergovernmental Agreement.
This agreement has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Cook County State’s Attorney’s
Office.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend
for approval 16-6439. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Daley, García, Goslin, Moody,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (7)

Page 2 of 5

 16-6436
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Frederick H. Bates
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Illinois Labor Relations Board
Effective date: 12/6/2016
Expiration date: 12/6/2020 or until a replacement is named
This item was withdrawn.
16-6373
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Jeffrey Rodrigues
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Emergency Telephone Systems Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: Three (3) years from the date of approval
This item was recommended for deferral (no action taken).
16-5767
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY ETHICS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 2. Administration,
ARTICLE VII. Ethics, DIVISION 2. Code of Ethical Conduct, Sections 2-561 and 2-571 of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as follows:
…
Sec. 2-561. - Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this division is to establish the code of conduct for every Official, Board or
Commission Appointee, and Employee of the County. All Officials, Board or Commission
Appointees, and Employees of the County shall:
Page 3 of 5

 (1) Owe a fiduciary duty to the County;
(2) Treat members of the public with respect and be responsive and forthcoming in meeting their
requests for information;
(3) Protect the County’s interests when contracting for outside services;
(4) Put forth honest effort in the performance of their duties;
(5) Conduct business on behalf of the County in a financially responsible manner;
(6) Protect and conserve County property and assets, and use County property and assets for
authorized purposes or activities;
(7) Adhere to all applicable laws and regulations; and
(8) Report any violations, suspected violations, or other misconduct under this article to the Board
of Ethics or the Office of the Independent Inspector General of Cook County in a timely manner.
(b)

This division is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or
procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the County, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
…

Sec. 2-571. - Fiduciary duty.
(a)

Officials and employees shall at all times in the performance of their public duties owe a
fiduciary duty to the County. Board or commission appointees appointed under County
Ordinance owe a fiduciary duty to the County in the performance of their public duties and
appointed board or commission appointees appointed under State Statute owe a fiduciary duty to
the members of the public for which they have been appointed to serve.

(b)

The fiduciary duty owed by officials, Board or commission appointees and employees shall
include the following duties:
(1) Avoid the appearance of impropriety;
(2) Comply with laws and regulations by avoiding both the violation of any applicable law or
regulation and the creation of a strong risk of a violation of any other law or regulation;
(3) Conserve County property and assets and avoid their wasteful use;
(4) Conduct business on behalf of the County in a financially responsible manner;
(5) Protect the County’s best interests when contracting for outside services; and

Page 4 of 5

 (6) Report any violations, suspected violations, or other misconduct under this article to the
Board of Ethics or the Office of the Independent Inspector General of Cook County in a
timely manner.
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to recommend
for approval 16-5767. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Daley, García, Goslin, Moody,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (7)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Daley, García, Goslin, Moody,
Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri and Sims (10)

Absent:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Gainer, Moore, Steele and Tobolski (7)

Respectfully submitted,

________________________________
Chairman

__________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 5 of 5

 