REVISED
Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, June 17, 2014

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings
of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.
14-0170
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Commissioner
A Resolution Opposing the United States Army Corps of Engineers Proposed Use of the Fullerton Woods
and Harry Semrow Golf Driving Range for Stormwater Management
WHEREAS, in August of 2013, the United States Army Corps of Engineers (“U.S. Army Corps”) issued an
Integrated Feasibility Report and Environmental Assessment for the Upper Des Plaines River and Tributaries of
Illinois and Wisconsin (the “Report”);

 WHEREAS, the Report sought to create a comprehensive plan for addressing flooding and stormwater along the
Des Plaines River; and
WHEREAS, the Report proposed a variety of remediation measures along the Des Plaines river, including the
creation of a reservoir within the Aptakisic Creek watershed, in Lake County, Illinois, near the Village of Buffalo
Grove; and
WHEREAS, in October, 2013, the Village of Buffalo Grove passed a resolution opposing the siting of the reservoir
at Aptakisic Creek; and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Army Corps issued a “Documentation of Changes to the Draft Integrated Feasibility Report
and Environmental Assessment” (the “Documentation of Changes”) in response to the Village of Buffalo Grove’s
resolution;
WHEREAS, the Documentation of Changes removed the proposal for a reservoir within the Aptakisic Creek
watershed and proposed the creation of two reservoirs at Fullerton Woods and the Harry Semrow Driving Range
within the Forest Preserve District of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County were never presented
with and have not ruled upon the proposal within the Documentation of Changes;
WHEREAS, the proposed creation of the reservoirs is not supported as a land use under law and is against the
mission and land use policies of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Real Estate Committee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Board of Commissioners convene a public hearing to discuss the proposed creation of reservoirs at
Fullerton Woods and the Harry Semrow Driving Range; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Superintendant of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, and/or
his designee, report to the Real Estate Committee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Commissioners on
the proposed reservoirs; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
will investigate the creation of reservoirs at Fullerton Woods and the Harry Semrow Golf Driving Range; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that an official copy of this Resolution be tendered to the United States Army
Corps of Engineers.
Legislative History:

3/11/14 FPD Board of Commissioners adopted as amended.
3/11/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
4/8/14 FPD Real Estate Committee deferred

Page 2 of 5

 14-0239
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to Nicor Gas Company, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a 2-inch natural gas main to
connect and extend an existing 2-inch gas main in the area. The installation will provide a loop in the system, which
will assist in providing reliable and efficient gas service to the area, including the Preserves’ Police facility. The
natural gas main extension will be located in the existing right of way of 31st Street in front of the Preserves’ Police
Headquarters at 1 Aloha Lane.
Term:

10 years

License Fee:

$4,683.20

License Application Fee: $1,000.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00 Total one-time upfront fee of $9,083.20 for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and
5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.069 Acre(s)
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Forest Preserves’ staff have reviewed this license application and related documents, have found them to be
acceptable, and recommends the Board of Forest Preserve District Commissioners approve the issuance of this
license.
District(s): 16
Legislative History: 5/20/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

14-0240
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, Grantee, to
locate, operate and maintain a backflow preventer on Preserves property. The device will be attached to an existing
IDOT outfall located in the right of way along Dundee Road in the Deer Grove East Preserve. The installation is part
of a project to reduce flooding in Palatine by redirecting overland flow to a proposed storm sewer on Palatine Park
District property. The proposed project will reduce overland flow to the Preserves during larger rain events by
redirecting the flow to the storm sewer on Palatine Park District property. The project will not increase flood heights
on Preserves property and does not require compensatory storage. No trees will be impacted by the installation.
Page 3 of 5

 Term:

Continuous

License Fee:

$3,400.00

License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00 Total one-time upfront fee of $7,300.00 for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and
5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.005Acre(s)
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Forest Preserves’ staff has reviewed this license application and related documents, have found them to be
acceptable and recommends the Board of Forest Preserve District Commissioners approve the issuance of this
license.
District(s): 14
Legislative History: 5/20/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.
14-0241
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to the Village of Winnetka, Illinois, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain 9-foot by 5-foot
concrete box culvert under Tower Road to the Tower Road Lagoon (south of Tower Road, east of Forestway Drive).
The new culvert will replace an existing 36-inch storm sewer at the same location, which severely restricts flow
going into the pond. The installation will allow fuller utilization of the design capacity of the existing lagoon. As
part of this project, the Village will stabilize the lagoon banks with 3:1 slopes, emergent plants and wet prairie
plants, and restore the encroachment area with low profile grasses. A few low value trees impacted by this project
will be replaced with new trees within the restoration area. The Village will manage the restoration area for 5 years
to establish the new plantings. No increase in size or other changes to the lagoon are proposed.
Term:

Continuous

License Fee:

$3,400.00

License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00 Total one-time upfront fee of $7,300.00 for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and
5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Page 4 of 5

 The area of the License is: 0.046 Acre(s)
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
Forest Preserves’ staff has reviewed this license application and related documents, have found them to be
acceptable and recommends the Board of Forest Preserve District Commissioners approve the issuance of this
license.
District(s): 14
Legislative History: 5/20/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice Chairman:
Members:

Murphy
Gorman
Committee of the Whole

Page 5 of 5

 