Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Audit Committee
Tuesday, April 8, 2014

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

10:45 AM

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Goslin, Butler, Gainer, Gorman, Reyes and Schneider (7)

Absent:

None (0)

Also Present:

Shelly A. Banks, C.P.A., County Auditor
Patrick Hagan, Auditor, McGiadrey LLP
Linda Abernethy, Auditor, McGladrey LLP
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in accordance with
Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd):
1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
14-1530
REPORT
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Receive & File
Report Title: Veterans Assistance Commission of Cook County (VACCC)
Report Period: For the period ended 11/30/2013
Summary: The purpose of this report was to assess the accounting, record keeping and internal control procedures
ofthe VACCC
Legislative History:

3/12/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Audit Committee

 A motion was made by Vice Chairman Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Gorman, that this Report be
recommended for receiving and filing. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Chairman Daley, Vice Chainnan Goslin, Butler, Gainer, Gorman, Reyes and Schneider (7)
Nays: None (0)
Chairman Daley entered into the record a letter dated April 7, 2014 from the Chairman of the Audit
Committee and a letter dated January 2, 2014 from Linda S. Abernethy (Partner of McGiadrey LLP).
Chairman Daley informed the Audit Committee members that the following presentation from Patrick
Hagan (Auditor, McGiadrey LLP) was for informational purposes only. Chairman Daley requested leave
for Patrick Hagan to address the Committee, and leave was granted.
INFORMATION ONLY
Presented by: Linda Abernethy and Patrick Hagan, auditors, McGiadrey LLP; Les McKeever and Donald
Croswell, auditors, Washington, Pittman & McKeever
Department: on behalf oflvan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer of Cook County
Request: Presentation to Audit Committee
Report Period: For the fiscal year ended 11/30/2013
Summary: The purpose of this presentation is to inform the Audit Committee regarding the scope of work and
timeline for completing the audit of the 2013 Annual Financial Statements, CAFR, and Letter to Management.
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried.
SECTION2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:
File Number 14-1530

Recommended for Receive and File

Respectfully submitted,

Chain~ /JJ4
*The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark Street,
Room 436, Chicago, JL 60602.
*A video recording of this meeting is available on the Office ofthe Secretary to the Board's web site on the Video
Page at http://blog.cookcounty i l .~ov/sec reta ry to lh eboa rd /co u nty- board-proceed ings/co unl y-board-video-and-aud io/

 JOHN P. DALEY
Chairman
Committee on Finance

118 N. Clark Street, Room 567
Chicago, IL 60602
312.603.4400 Office
312.603.6688 Fax
e-mail: john.daley@cookcountyil.gov

Commissioner - 11th District
Cook County Board of Commissioners

April 7, 2014
Mr. Abundio Zaragoza, Superintendent
V elerru1s Assistance Commission
1100 S Hamilton, Lower Level
Chicago, IL 60612
Dear Mr. Zaragoza:
We have received a copy of the recent audit of your office by the Cook County Auditor,
and note that the report contains 10 findings with accompanying recommendations. The
management response to each of the auditor's recommendations indicates that your office
is presently working to achieve compliance during the course of the current fiscal year.
Please provide my office with specific target dates in 2014 for reaching compliance with
each of the 10 findings. Thank you for your cooperation.
Sincerely,

Chairman John P. Daley
Audit Committee

JPD/bh

®

Printed on Recycled Paper

 McGI<~drey

McGiadrey

LLP

One South Wacker Drive
Suite 800
Chicago, IL 60606-3392
0 312.384.6000 F 312.634.3410
www.mcgladrey.com

January 2, 2014 .
Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
The Honorable John P. Daley, Chairman, Cook County Audit Committee
Cook County
118 North Clark Street, Room 1127
Chicago, IL 60602-1423
Attention: Ivan Samstein, CFO

The Objective and Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
Management has requested that we audit the financial statements of Cook County (the "County"), which
comprise governmental activities, business-type activities, aggregate discretely presented component
units, each major fund and aggregate remaining fund information as of and for the year-ended November
30, 2013, which collectively comprise the basic financial statements and you acknowledge that we are the
principal auditor of Cook County's basic financial statements as of and for the year ended November 30,
2013. We will not audit the financial statements of the County Employees and Officers' Annuity and
Benefit Fund (County's Pension Trust and Postemployment Benefit Healthcare Trust Funds), the
discretely presented component units, (the Emergency Telephone System and the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County), and the Clerk of the Circuit Court Agency Fund. Those financial statements will
be audited by other auditors. The engagement will involve reporting on whether supplementary
information is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the financial statements as a whole. We
will also perform an audit of the following financial statements to be issued by the County as of November
30, 2013; the Cook County Health and Hospital System (CCHHS) and the Treasurer's Office Agency
Funds A, B and D. We will issue separate arrangement letter for those 2 engagements. We are pleased
to confirm our acceptance and our understanding of this audit engagement by means of this letter.
Our audit will be conducted with the objective of our expressing an opinion on the financial statements.
The Responsibilities of the Auditor
We will conduct our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States
of America (GAAS); and Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United
States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing
procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The
procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. An audit also includes evaluating
the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial
statements.

 Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 2

You have informed us that you desire us to issue a report on the basic financial statements of Cook
County, Illinois as of and for the year ended November 30, 2013 conforming only to the requirements of
auditing standards generally accepted in the United State of America (GAAS) . It is our understanding
that this report will be used for purposes of submission to the GFOA and other reporting requirements not
associated with the single audit. This GAAS only report will not be used for purposes to comply with the
requirement calling for an audit in accordance with Government Auditing Standards, and will not be used
in the single audit reporting package filed with the single audit clearing house. We will also provide a
report on the basic financial statements of Cook County, Illinois as of and for the year ended
November 30, 2013 conforming to both GAAS and Government Auditing Standards (GAS). This opinion
should be included in the reporting package submitted to the single audit clearing house.
Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, together with the inherent limitations of internal control, an
unavoidable risk that some material misstatements may not be detected exists, even though the audit is
properly planned and performed in accordance with GAAS. Also, an audit is not designed to detect errors
or fraud that are immaterial to the financial statements. The determination of abuse is subjective;
therefore, Government Auditing Standards do not expect us to provide reasonable assurance of detecting
abuse.
In making our risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the County's preparation and fair
presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal
control.. However, we will communicate to you in writing concerning any significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses in internal control relevant to the audit of the financial statements that we have identified
during the audit.
We will also communicate to the County Board of Commissioners (a) any fraud involving senior
management and fraud (whether caused by senior management or other employees) that causes a
material misstatement of the financial statements that becomes known to us during the audit, and (b) any
instances of noncompliance with laws and regulations that we become aware of during the audit (unless
they are clearly inconsequential).
The funds that you have told us are maintained by the County and that are to be included as part of our
audit have not changed significantly from those reported in the FY2012 CAFR.
The component units whose financial statements you have told us are to be included as part of the
County's basic financial statements are: the Cook County Forest Preserve District and the Emergency
Telephone System.
Our report on internal control will include any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in controls
of which we become aware as a result of obtaining an understanding of internal control and performing
tests of internal control consistent with requirements of the standards identified above. Our report on
compliance matters will address material errors, fraud, abuse, violations of compliance obligations, and
other responsibilities imposed by state and federal statutes and regulations or assumed by contracts, of
which we become aware, consistent with requirements of the standards identified above.

 Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 3

The Responsibilities of Management and Identification of the Applicable Financial Reporting
Framework
Our audit will be conducted on the basis that management acknowledge and understand that they have
responsibility:
a.

For the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America;

b.

For the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and
fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error;

c.

For establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for informing us
of all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of such controls of
which it has knowledge;

d.

To provide us with:
(1) Access to all information of which management is aware that is relevant to the preparation and
fair presentation of the financial statements such as records, documentation, and other matters;
(2) Additional information that we may request from management for the purpose of the audit;
(3) Unrestricted access to persons within the entity from whom we determine it necessary to obtain
audit evidence;
(5) If applicable, responses to any findings reported.

As part of our audit process, we will request from management written confirmation concerning
representations made to us in connection with the audit including among other items:
a.

That management has fulfilled its responsibilities as set out in the terms of this letter; and

b.

That it believes the effects of any uncorrected misstatements aggregated by us during the current
engagement and pertaining to the latest period presented are immaterial, both individually and in the
aggregate, to the financial statements taken as a whole.

Management is responsible for identifying and ensuring that the County complies with the laws and
regulations applicable to its activities, and for informing us about all known material violations of such
laws or regulations. In addition, management is responsible for the design and implementation of
programs and controls to prevent and detect fraud or abuse, and for informing us about all known or
suspected fraud or abuse affecting the entity involving management, employees who have significant
roles in internal control, and others where the fraud or abuse could have a material effect on the financial
statements or compliance. Management is also responsible for informing us of its knowledge of any
allegations of fraud or abuse or suspected fraud or abuse affecting the entity received in communications
from employees, former employees, analysts, regulators, or others.
Management is responsible for the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Management agrees to include
the auditor's report on the supplementary information in any document that contains the supplementary
information and that indicates that the auditor has reported on such supplementary information.
Management also agrees to present the supplementary information with the audited financial statements
or, if the supplementary information will not be presented with audited financial statements, to make the

 Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 4

audited financial statements readily available to the intended users of the supplementary information no
later than the date of issuance of the supplementary information and the auditor's report thereon.
The County Board of Commissioners is responsible for informing us of its views about the risks of fraud or
abuse within the entity, and its knowledge of any fraud or abuse or suspected fraud or abuse affecting the
entity.
Except for the inclusion of our Independent Auditors' Reports, or as otherwise provided herein, the
County shall make no reference to us in any public or private securities offering. If the County includes
our reports in any public or private securities offering, the County shall clearly advise us in advance,
indicate that we are not associated with the contents of the official statement or memorandum, and
prominently display the following statement in the official statement or memorandum:
McGiadrey LLP, our independent auditor, has not been engaged to perform, and has not
performed, since the date of its report included herein, any procedures on the financial
statements addressed in that report. McGiadrey LLP also has not performed any procedures
relating to this official statement or memorandum.
Our association with an official statement or memorandum beyond the inclusion of our reports, or for work
done after the completion of our reports, is a matter for which separate arrangements will be necessary.
has not performed any procedures relating to this official statement (or memorandum).
Because McGiadrey LLP will rely on the County and its management and the County Board of
Commissioners to discharge the foregoing responsibilities the County holds harmless and releases
McGiadrey LLP, its partners, and employees from all claims, liabilities, losses, and costs arising in
circumstances where there has been a knowing misrepresentation by a member of the County's
management which has caused, in any respect, McGiadrey LLP's breach of contract or negligence. This
provision shall survive the termination of this arrangement for services.
Cook County's Records and Assistance
If circumstances arise relating to the condition of the County's records, the availability of appropriate audit
evidence, or indications of a significant risk of material misstatement of the financial statements because
of error, fraudulent financial reporting, or misappropriation of assets, which in our professional judgment,
prevent us from completing the audit or forming an opinion, we retain the unilateral right to take any
course of action permitted by professional standards, including declining to express an opinion, issue a
report, or withdraw from the engagement.
During the course of our engagement, we may accumulate records containing data that should be
reflected in the County's books and records. The County will determine that all such data, if necessary,
will be so reflected. Accordingly, the County will not expect us to maintain copies of such records in our
possession.
The assistance to be supplied by County personnel was provided to John Schick, Deputy Comptroller,
including the dates when the information should be available to us. The timely and accurate completion of
this work is an essential condition to our completion of the audit and issuance of our audit report.
In connection with our audit, you have requested us to perform certain non-audit services necessary for
the preparation of the financial statements. These services will entail making edits to the draft financial
statements (report) prepared by the County, and printing and binding the financial statements. The

 Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 5

independence standards of "Government Auditing Standards" issued by the Comptroller General of the
United States GAS require that the auditor maintain independence so that opinions, findings, conclusions,
judgments, and recommendations will be impartial and viewed as impartial by reasonable and informed
third parties. Before we agree to provide a non-audit service to the County, we determine whether
providing such a service would create a significant threat to our independence for GAS audit purposes,
either by itself or in aggregate with other non-audit services provided. A critical component of our
determination is consideration of management's ability to effectively oversee the non-audit service to be
performed. The County has agreed that Maria Mendoza, Director of Finandal Reporting, possesses
suitable skill, knowledge, or experience and that she understands the editing and production services to
be performed sufficiently to oversee them. Accordingly, the management of Cook County agrees to the
following:
1.

Cook County has designated Maria Mendoza, Director of Financial Reporting, a senior member of
management, who possesses suitable skill, knowledge, and experience to oversee the services.

2: Maria Mendoza, Director of Financial Reporting will assume all management responsibilities for
subject matter a.nd scope of the report editing and production services.
3.

The County will evaluate the adequacy and results of the services performed.

4.

The County accepts responsibility for the results and ultimate use of the services.

GAS further requires we establish an understanding with the management (and those charged with
governance) of the County, of the objectives of the non-audit service, the services to be performed, the
entity's acceptance of its responsibilities, the auditor's responsibilities, and any limitations of the non-audit
service. We believe this letter documents that understanding.

Other Relevant Information
From time to time and depending upon the circumstances, we may use third-party service providers to
assist us in providing professional services to you. In such circumstances, it may be necessary for us to
disclose confidential client information to them. We enter into confidentiality agreements with all thirdparty service providers and we are satisfied that they have appropriate procedures in place to prevent the
unauthorized release of your confidential information to others. In addition, we may utilize financial
information you have provided to us in connection with this engagement for purposes of creating
benchmarking data to be used by McGiadrey LLP professionals and other clients. This benchmarking
data is aggregated with data from a minimum of five other entities so that users of the data are unable to
associate the data with any single entity in the database.
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, a copy of our most recent peer review report is
enclosed for your information.

Fees, Costs, and Access to Workpapers
Our fees for the audit and accounting services described above are detailed in Attachment A. Interim
billings will be submitted as work progresses. Billings are due upon submission. All fees will be billed by
McGiadrey LLP, however services performed for the separately issued reports (Treasurer, CCHHS,
Single Audit, Grant Audits and Agreed-Upon Procedures and Clerk of the Circuit Court) will require
separate arrangements (separate arrangement letters). Our fee quote and completion of our work is
based upon the following criteria:
a. Anticipated cooperation from County personnel
b. Timely responses to our inquiries

 Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 6

c.

Timely completion and delivery of client assistance requests

d.

Timely communication of all.significant accounting and financial reporting matters

e.

The assumption that unexpected circumstances will not be encountered during the engagement

Our professional standards require that we perform certain additional procedures, on current and
previous years' engagements, whenever a partner or professional employee leaves the firm and is
subsequently employed by or associated with a client in a key position. Accordingly, the County agrees it
will not hire a McGiadrey LLP Partner or employee during the period of our contract with the County, or
until the engagements are complete and all reports have been issued, whichever is later, unless mutually
agreed.
In the event we are requested or authorized by the County or are required by government regulation,
subpoena, or other legal process to produce our documents or our personnel as witnesses with respect to
our engagement for the County, the County will, so long as we are not a party to the proceeding in which
the information is sought, reimburse us for our professional time and expenses, as well as the fees and
expenses of our counsel, incurred in responding to such requests.
The documentation for this engagement is the property of McGiadrey LLP. However, you acknowledge
and grant your assent that representatives of the cognizant or oversight agency or their designee, other
government audit staff, and the U.S. Government Accountability Office shall have access to the audit
documentation upon their request and that we shall maintain the audit documentation for a period of at
least three years after the date of the report, or for a longer period if we are requested to do so by the
cognizant or oversight agency. Access to requested documentation will be provided under the supervision
of McGiadrey LLP audit personnel and at a location designated by our Firm.
You have informed us that you intend to prepare a comprehensive annual financial report (CAFR) and
submit it for evaluation by the Government Finance Officers Association's Certificate of Achievement for
Excellence in Financial Reporting. Our participation in the preparation of the CAFR is to consist of review
of all sections for compliance with the reporting requirements, and advise the County as requested, on
implementing GFOA recommendations.

Claim Resolution
The County and McGiadrey LLP agree that no claim arising out of services rendered pursuant to this
agreement shall be filed more than two years after the date of the audit report issued by McGiadrey LLP
or the date of this arrangement letter if no report has been issued. McGiadrey LLP's liability for all claims,
damages and costs of the County arising from this engagement is limited to three times the amount of
fees paid by the County to McGiadrey LLP for the services rendered under this arrangement letter.
If any term or provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, such term or
provision will be deemed stricken, and all other terms and provisions will remain in full force and effect.

Reporting
We will issue a written report upon completion of our audit of the County's financial statements. Our
report will be addressed to the County Board of Commissioners. We cannot provide assurance that an
unmodified opinion will be expressed. Circumstances may arise in which it is necessary for us to modify
our opinion, add an emphasis-of-matter or other-matter paragraph(s), or withdraw from the engagement.

 Mr. Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 7

In addition to our report on the County's financial statements, we will also issue the following types of
reports:
•

A report on supplementary information, in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole
and a report on the limited procedures performed on the Required Supplementary Information.

•

Report on internal control related to the financial statements. This report will describe the scope
of testing of internal control and the results of our tests of internal controls.

•

Report on compliance with laws, regulations, and the provision of contracts or grant agreements.
We will report on any noncompliance which could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

•

A schedule of findings and responses.

This letter and our contract #11-88-031 for professional auditing services, constitutes the complete and
exclusive statement of agreement between McGiadrey LLP and the County, superseding all proposals,
oral or written, and all other communications, with respect to the terms of the engagement between the
parties.
Please sign and return the attached copy of this letter to indicate your acknowledgment of, and
agreement with, the arrangements for our audit of the financial statements including our respective
responsibilities.
McGiadrey LLP

Linda S. Abernethy, Partner

Confirmed on behalf of Cook County Management:

Toni Preckwinkle, President

Date

Ivan Samstein, Chief Financial Officer

Date

 Mr. Ivan Sam stein, Chief Financial Officer
The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County
Page 8

Attachment A
Fee Schedule

CAFR
DHSAUP
CCHHS
A-133 Single Audit
Clerk of the Circuit Court
Treasurer's Office
CAFR editing, printing and binding, if requested

$

764,400
10,800
333,900
282,900
111,000
92,000
7,500

Total

$

1,602,500

 