STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on March 10, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex
Piper, Member of the Board (participated by telephone-conference); Albert Washington, Member of the
Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan acted as counsel to the
Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD FEBRUARY 10, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the February 10, 2009 meeting. Member Coli
made a motion for approval of the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from February 1 through February 28, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-07-155
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Illinois State Toll Highway Authority

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Wells' Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation that under
the circumstances of this case, there was no violation of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (Act), 5 ILCS
315 (2006), as amended, in connection with Respondent's tape recording of investigatory interviews; no
violation of the Act in connection with Respondent obtaining Murray to represent Williams in her
investigatory interview; and no violation of the Act in connection with Respondent's failure to provide Reilly
or the Union with information as to the subject matter of his investigatory interview. However, the acting
general counsel further recommend that the Board find that Respondent's failure to provide information as to
the subject matter of Williams' investigatory interview violated her rights under Weingarten, and thereby,
violated Section 10(a)(1) of the Act. He also recommended that the appropriate remedy should be a posting,
as there was no evidence Williams' discharge was due to retaliation for asserting her right to union
representation, or "predominantly dependent" upon information obtained through the unlawful interview, as
Williams apparently admitted no wrongdoing during it. Finally, the acting general counsel recommended
that as neither party filed exceptions to the ALJ's determinations regarding Reilly's retaliation claim, the
Board decline to take that issue up on its own motion. After a discussion of the merits, Member Hade moved
to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 2.
Case No. S-CA-05-165
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Village of Maywood
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Rios' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-CA-06-199
Gina Brajkovich/Village of Burnham
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-07-075
Int'l Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 714/Lincolnway Police Communications Center
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher observed that the governor's budget message was scheduled for April 18; she updated
the Board as to the status of legislation that could affect the agency, and distributed the text of the pending
bills. The Chair and Members of the Board discussed the various pieces of legislation and assessed the effect
of each on the agency. Thereafter, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session,
concluding it was not necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of April, 2009.

2

 