 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Workforce, Housing Community Development Committee

Wednesday, November 14, 2018 9:45 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Gainer, Boykin, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (5)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Gainer asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordancewith Cook County Code.

No Public Speakers
18-6922

COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/25/2018

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
approve 18-6922. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Boykin, Sims, Sut?fredin and Tobolski (5)

Workforce, Housing Community Committee Minutes November 14, 2018

Development Committee

18-6305
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development

 

PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development

Other Part(ies): The Housing Authority of Cook County, The Village of Arlington Heights, The City of
Berwyn, The Cicero Housing Authority, The City of Des Plaines, The City of Evanston, The Village of
Hoffman Estates, The Maywood Housing Authority, The Village of Mount Prospect, The Village of Oak
Lawn, The Village of Oak Park, The Oak Park Housing Authority, The Village of Palatine, The Park
Forest Housing Authority, The Village of Schaumburg, The Village of Skokie

Request: Approve an Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and the sixteen parties
above

Goods or Services: Cook County will serve as the lead entity for the suburban Cook County portion of
a collaboration to develop a regional Assessment of Fair Housing.

Agreement Number(s): NJA

Agreement Period: The agreement is effective as of 11/1/2018 and will remain effective until
78 1/2020 or until supplanted by a new agreement, whichever comes ?rst.

Fiscal Impact: None. The County?s portion of the cost will be paid with Community
Development Block Grant funds.

Accounts: Community Development Block Grant

Summary: The parties to the proposed Intergovernmental Agreement are subject to federal requirements
to affirmatively further fair housing and wish to collaborate to develop a regional Assessment of Fair
Housing. The parties will work with Enterprise Community Partners and its partners, the Chicago
Metropolitan Agency for Planning, the Metropolitan Planning Council and the Chicago Area Fair Housing
Alliance, to produce a joint Assessment of Fair Housing. Cook County will enter into a Subrecipient
Agreement with Enterprise Community Partners with respect to the suburban Cook County portion of the
project. The City of Chicago and Chicago Housing Authority will enter into a separate agreement with
Enterprise Community Partners for this project.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 18-6305. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Boykin, Sims, Suffredin and Tobolski (S)

Page 2 of 3

Workforce, Housing Community Committee Minutes November 2018

Development Committee

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Boykin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to adjourn

the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Gainer, Boykin, Sims. Suffredin and obolski (5)

RCSpectfully submitted.

25. 

Secretary

 

if O?Jat tutu?

Chairman

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 3 of 3

