STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on September 9, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 N LaSalle Street, S-401, Chicago, Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board;
Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive
Director; Jerald S. Post, General Counsel; Sarah Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal, Associate
General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD August 12, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the August 12, 2014 meeting. Member Washington moved
to approve the minutes. Member Besson seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report. She
presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-12-085
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, DuPage Sheriff’s Police, Chapter 126/ County of DuPage and DuPage
County Sheriff

Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on July 1, 2014,
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Michelle N. Owen issued a Recommended Decision and Order (RDO)
recommending that the Board dismiss the complaint. General Counsel Post then presented and discussed Charging
Party’s exceptions and the Respondent’s response. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the
Board dismiss the complaint. After discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDO. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-CA-13-175
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/ Chief Judge of the
Circuit Court of Cook County
Chairman Hartnett asked General Counsel Post to call the case. General Counsel Post stated that on July 1, 2014,
ALJ Anna Hamburg-Gal issued a RDO, recommending that the Board dismiss the complaint. He then discussed
the exceptions. After his discussion, General Counsel Post recommended that the Board affirm the RDO. After
discussion, Member Brennwald moved to accept the RDO. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-14-185
Patrick Nelson/ Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County
General Counsel Post called the case and then asked Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss
the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that the Executive Director dismissed the
charge filed by the Charging Party which alleged that the Respondent violated Sections 10(a)(2) and (1) of the Act.
After her discussion, Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal recommended that the Board affirm the Executive
Director dismissal. After discussion, Member Washington moved to affirm the dismissal. Member Besson seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Brennwald then moved to deny the

 Charging Party’s request for representation. Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Washington made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and
the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations
Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 7th day of October, 2014.

2

 