Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee Minutes
PUBLIC HEARING
Wednesday, August 3, 2016

1:00 PM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, García,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (13)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Goslin, Murphy and Tobolski (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
Accordance with Cook County Code.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

Cara Smith, Chief of Policy and Strategy, Cook County Sherriff
Terry Mason, Chief Operating Officer, Cook County Department of Public Health
Deborah Stone, Director, Cook County Department of Environmental Control
Debra Shore, Commissioner, Cook County Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
Marissa Watkins, Director, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
Sam Pulia, Mayor, Village of Westchester
John Roberts, Chief of Police, Cook County Forest Preserve District
Vernard Alsberry, Mayor, Village of Hazel Crest
Marianne Hornko, President, The Horinko Group
Michael Reever, Vice President, Government Relations, Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce
Carlos Gutierrez, Senior Director, Consumer Healthcare Products Association
Brynna Clark, Senior Director, Generic Pharmaceuticals Association
John Gregory Hoke, Director of Government Affairs, Biotechnology Innovation Organization
Warren Ribley, President and Chief Executive Officer, Illinois Biotechnology Industry Organization
Krista Grimm, Illinois Vice President, League of Women Voters of Cook County
Jeff Shelden, Representative, Sierra Club Chicago
Jack Darin, Director, Sierra Club Chicago
Jennifer Walling, Executive Director, Illinois Environmental Council
Pete Jackson, Concerned Citizen
Sarah Neville, Concerned Citizen
Margie Schaps, Executive Director, Health & Medicine Policy Research Group
Claire Snyder, Conservation Program Specialist, Friends of the Chicago River

 23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

Carol Hays, Executive Director, Prairie Rivers Network
Olga Lyandres, Research Manager, Alliance for the Great Lakes
Sara Christensen, Executive Director, Prevention First
Dr. Dan Lustig, Vice President of Clinical Services, Haymarket Center
Juan Hernandez, Executive Director, A Fresh Start Sober Living Environments
George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
Tom Greenhaw, Concerned Citizen
Greg Kelly, Executive Vice President, SEIU Healthcare Illinois
Dr. Shaifali Sandhya, Director, CARE Family Consultation
Tim Oravec, Representative, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District – Commissioner Shore
Trevor Rogers, Representative, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District – Commissioner Bradford
Kathleen Kane Willis, Director, Illinois Consortium on Drug Policy at Roosevelt University

16-1983
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY,
BRIDGET GAINER and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE SAFE DISPOSAL OF PHARMACEUTICALS
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6(a); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, Cook County may exercise any power and perform any
function relating to its government and affairs including the power to regulate for the protection of the
public health, safety, morals, and welfare; and
WHEREAS, the health and welfare of the residents of Cook County, particularly children and the
elderly, would be greatly improved and advanced by the proper disposal of unwanted, expired or
unneeded prescription drugs; and
WHEREAS, there is a significant risk of poisoning, in particular to children and the elderly, due to the
improper or careless disposal of prescription drugs and the illegal re-sale of prescription drugs; and
WHEREAS, the groundwater and drinking water of Cook County is being contaminated by improperly
disposed of prescription drugs passing through our wastewater and treatment centers; and
WHEREAS, the United States Supreme Court has held that waste disposal is traditionally a function of
local government; and
WHEREAS, the first pharmaceutical disposal ordinance was enacted by Alameda County, California in
2012; and
WHEREAS, since Alameda County’s enactment, other counties have enacted or introducing ordinances
regulating the disposal of pharmaceuticals, including Los Angeles, Marin, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara,
Santa Cruz, San Francisco, and San Mateo Counties in California and King County, Washington; and
Page 2 of 15

 WHEREAS, the Alameda County ordinance was upheld in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California in Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, et. al v.
Alameda County, et. al., No. 3:12-cv-06203 (N.D. Cal., Aug. 28, 2013) and in the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, et. al v.
Alameda County, et. al., No. 3:12-cv-06203 (9th Circuit, September 30, 2014). The United States
Supreme Court declined to hear the case; and
WHEREAS, in an opinion by Judge N.R. Smith, the Ninth Circuit held that the ordinance did not burden
interstate commerce, given that the Ordinance did not affect the interstate flow of goods; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance was found to not discriminate in favor of in-County competitors, as in both
on its face and in effect, it applied to all manufacturers that make their drugs available in Alameda
County-without respect to the geographic location of the manufacturer; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance did not impose different requirements on Producers within California and
Producers outside of California; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance did not act like a tariff and there was no evidence that the Ordinance will
interrupt, or even decrease, the “flow of goods” into or out of Alameda County; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance had de minimis costs as compared with the health, safety and environmental
benefits; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, the above recitals are expressly incorporated herein and
made part hereof as though fully set forth herein.
BE IT FURTHUR ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article II, Sheriff, Division 5, Pharmaceutical Disposal Program, Sections 46-102 - 46-121
is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 46-102 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this Division, the following definitions apply:
Board means the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois.
County means Cook County, Illinois.
County residents mean human beings residing in the County.
Collector means a Person approved by the Director to gather Unwanted Covered Drugs from
County residents for the purpose of collection, transportation, and disposal.
Covered Drug means a Drug in any form used by County residents, including prescription,
nonprescription, brand name and generic drugs. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, “Covered
Drug” does not include:
(1) vitamins or supplements;
Page 3 of 15

 (2) herbal-based remedies and homeopathic drugs, products, or remedies;
(3) cosmetics, shampoos, sunscreens, toothpaste, lip balm, antiperspirants, or other personal care
products that are regulated as both cosmetics and nonprescription drugs under the federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Title 21 U.S.C. Chapter 9);
(4) Drugs for which Producers provide a pharmaceutical product stewardship or take-back
program as part of a federal Food and Drug Administration-managed risk evaluation and
mitigation strategy (21 U.S.C. § 355-1);
(5) Drugs that are biological products as defined by 21 C.F.R. § 600.3(h) as it exists on the
effective date of this Division if the Producer already provides a pharmaceutical product
stewardship or take-back program; and
(6) medical devices or their component parts or accessories.
Director means the Director of the Prescription Drug Take Back Program of the Cook County
Sheriff’s Office, or a duly authorized representative.
District means the districts of Cook County as defined in Article II, Section 22-34 of the Code of
Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
Drug Wholesaler means a Person who buys Drugs for resale and distribution to corporations,
individuals, or entities other than consumers.
Drug means:
(1) any article recognized in the official United States pharmacopoeia, the official national
formulary, the official homeopathic pharmacopoeia of the United States or any supplement of
the formulary or those pharmacopoeias as published by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention
and the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia Convention of the United States;
(2) any substance intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of
disease in humans or other animals;
(3) any substance, other than food, intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of
humans or other animals; or
(3) any substance intended for use as a component of any substance specified in (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
Manufacture means the production, preparation, propagation, compounding, or processing of a
Drug but does not include the activities of a Repackager or Drug Wholesaler, or practitioner
who, distributes or dispenses such substance or device in the course of his or her professional
practice or, prepares, compounds, packages, or labels such substance or device.
Manufacturer means a Person engaged in the Manufacture of Drugs.

Page 4 of 15

 Mail-back services means a collection method for the return of Unwanted Covered Drugs from
County residents utilizing pre-paid and pre-addressed mailing envelopes.
Nonprescription Drug means a Drug that may be lawfully sold without a prescription.
Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association and any other legal entity.
Pharmacy means a place licensed by the state of Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation engaged in the practice of “Pharmacy,” as defined by the Illinois
Pharmacy Practice Act, 225 ILCS 85/1 et. seq. is conducted.
Prescription Drug means any Drug, including any controlled substance, that is required by
federal or state law or regulation to be dispensed by prescription only or is restricted to use by
practitioners only.
Producer means a Manufacturer engaged in the Manufacture of a Covered Drug sold in the
County, including a brand-name or generic Drug. Notwithstanding the previous sentence,
Producer does not include:
(1) a retailer whose store label appears on a Covered Drug or the drug’s packaging if the
Manufacturer from whom the retailer obtains the drug is identified under Sec. 46-103(d) of
this Division;
(2) a Repackager if the Manufacturer from whom the Repackager obtains the Drug is identified
under Sec. 46-103(d) of this Division;
(3) a pharmacist who compounds or repackages a prescribed individual drug product for a
consumer; or
(4) a wholesaler who is not also the Manufacturer.
Repackager means a person who owns or operates an establishment that repacks and relabels a
product or package for further sale, or for distribution without a further transaction.
Sheriff means the Office of the Cook County Sheriff.
Stewardship Plan means a plan for the collection, transportation and disposal of Unwanted
Covered Drugs required under Sec. 46-104 of this Division that is:
(1) financed, developed, implemented and participated in by one or more Producers;
(2) operated by the participating Producers or a Stewardship Organization; and
(3) approved by the Director.

Page 5 of 15

 Stewardship Organization means an organization designated by a Producer or group of Producers
to act as an agent on behalf of one or more Producers to develop and implement and operate a
Stewardship Plan.
Unwanted Covered Drug means any Covered Drug that the owner has discarded or intends to
discard.
Sec. 46-103 - Stewardship Plans - Participation.
(a) Each Producer shall participate in a Stewardship Plan. Each Producer must:
(1) operate, individually or jointly with other Producers, a Stewardship Plan approved by the
Director; or
(2) enter into an agreement with a Stewardship Organization to operate, on the Producer’s
behalf, a Stewardship Plan approved by the Director; or
(3) enter into an agreement with the Director to operate, on the Producer’s behalf, a Stewardship
Plan approved by the Director.
(b) Each Stewardship Plan must be approved by the Director before the entity administering the
plan starts collecting Unwanted Covered Drugs. Once approved, each Stewardship Plan must
have prior written approval of the Director for proposed changes as described under Sec. 46-102.
(c) By six months after the effective date of this Division, or by six months after a Produce starts
sale of a Covered Drug in the County, a Producer must notify the Director in writing of the
Producer’s intent to participate in a Stewardship Plan, or to form a new Stewardship Plan.
(d) By six months after the effective date of this Division, or by six months after a retailer whose
label appears on a Covered Drug or the Covered Drug’s packaging starts selling the Covered
Drug in the County, or by six months after a Covered Drug repackaged by Repackager is first
sold in the County, and, thereafter, upon request from the Director, a retailer or Repackager
whose label appears on a Covered Drug or the Covered Drug’s packaging must provide:
(1) written notification as to whether the Manufacturer from whom the retailer or Repackager
obtains the Covered Drug has provided its notice of intent to participate; and
(2) the contact information of the Manufacturer from whom the retailer or Repackager obtains
the Covered Drug, including the telephone number, mailing address and email address of the
retailer’s or Repackager’s point of contact at the Manufacturer.
(e) A Producer, either individually or jointly with other Producers, shall:
(1) By nine months after the effective date of this Division, or nine months after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, identify in writing to the Director a Stewardship Plan operator,
including the operator’s telephone, mailing address and email contact information, that is
authorized to be the official point of contact for the Stewardship Plan;

Page 6 of 15

 (2) By nine months after the effective date of this Division, or nine months after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, notify all Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies in the
County of the opportunity to participate as a drop-off site in accordance with Sec. 46-105 of
this Division and provide a process for forming an agreement between the Stewardship Plan
and interested Collectors; and annually thereafter, make the same notification to any
nonparticipating or new Pharmacies in the County;
(3) By one year after the effective date of this Division, or one year after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, submit a proposed Stewardship Plan as described in Sec.
46-104 to the Director for review;
(4) Within three months after the Director’s approval of the Stewardship Plan, operate or
participate in the Stewardship Plan in accordance with this Division;
(5) At least every four years after the Stewardship Plan starts operations, submit an updated
Stewardship Plan to the Director explaining any substantive changes to components of the
Stewardship Plan required in Sec. 46-104. The updated Stewardship Plan shall be accompanied
by the plan review fee in accordance with Section 46-115 of this Division. The Director shall
review updated Stewardship Plans using the process described in Sec. 46-111 of this Division;
and
(6) Pay all administrative and operational costs and fees associated with its Stewardship Plan.
(f) A Producer, either individually or jointly with other Producers, may:
(1) Enter into contracts and agreements with Stewardship Organizations, other service providers,
or other entities as necessary, useful or convenient to carry out all or portion of their Stewardship
Plan;
(2) Notify the Director of any Producer selling Covered Drugs Manufactured by that Producer or
group of Producers in the County that is failing to participate in a Stewardship Plan; and
(3) Perform any other functions as may be necessary or proper to carry out the Stewardship Plan
and to fulfill any or all of the purposes for which the plan is organized.
(g) After the first full year of participation in a Stewardship Plan, a Producer or group of
Producers may notify the Director in writing of intent to form a new Stewardship Plan, and
identify a plan operator, including the plan operator’s telephone, mailing address, and email
contact information, that is authorized to be the official point of contact for the proposed new
Stewardship Plan. Within three months of such notification, the Producer or group of Producers
shall submit a proposed Stewardship Plan as described under Sec. 46-104 to the Director for
review.
(h) The Director may, on a case-by-case basis, approve in writing requests for extensions of time
for the submission dates and deadlines in this Sec. 46-103.

Page 7 of 15

 (i) The Director may audit the records of a Producer, group of Producers, or Stewardship
Organization related to a Stewardship Plan or request that the Producer, group of Producers, or
Stewardship Organization arrange for the Director to inspect at reasonable times a Stewardship
Plan’s or a Collector’s facilities, vehicles, and equipment used in carrying out the Stewardship
Plan.

Sec. 46-104 - Stewardship Plans - Components.
Each Stewardship Plan, which must be submitted and reviewed according to Sec. 46-111, shall
include:
(a) Contact information for all Producers participating in the Stewardship Plan, including each
Drug Producer’s name, address, phone number, and email address, and the name, address, phone
number, and email address of a human being to whom the Director may direct all inquiries
regarding the Producer’s participation in the Stewardship Plan;

(b) A description of the proposed collection system to provide convenient ongoing collection
service for all Unwanted Covered Drugs from County residents in compliance with the provisions
and requirements in Sec. 46-105, including a list of all collection methods and participating
Collectors, a list of drop-off sites, a description of how any periodic collection events will be
scheduled and located, a description of how any mail-back services will be provided and an
example of the prepaid, preaddressed mailers the plan will use. The description of the collection
service shall include a list of Retail Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies contacted by the
plan under Sec. 46-103 (e)(2) of this Division, and a list of all Collectors who offered to
participate;
(c) A description of the handling and disposal system, including identification of and contact
information for Collectors, transporters and waste disposal facilities to be used by the
Stewardship Plan in accordance with Sec. 46-105 and Sec. 46-107 of this Division;
(d) A description of the policies and procedures to be followed by Persons handling Unwanted
Covered Drugs collected under the Stewardship Plan, including a description of how all
Collectors, transporters and waste disposal facilities used will ensure that the collected Unwanted
Covered Drugs are safely and securely tracked from collection through final disposal, and how all
entities participating in the Stewardship Plan will operate under and comply with all applicable
federal and state laws, rules and guidelines, including but not limited to those of the United States
Drug Enforcement Administration, and how any Pharmacy collection site will operate under
applicable rules and guidelines of the Safe Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of Illinois, 210 ILCS
150/1, et. seq.
(e) A certification that any patient information on Drug packaging will be promptly destroyed;
(f) A description of the public education effort and promotion strategy required in Sec. 46-106 of
this Division, including a copy of standardized instructions for County residents, signage
developed for Collectors, and required promotional materials;

Page 8 of 15

 (g) Proposed short-term and long-term goals of the Stewardship Plan for collection amounts,
education and promotion; and
(h) A description of how the Stewardship Plan will consider:
(1) use of existing providers of waste pharmaceutical services;
(2) separating Covered Drugs from packaging to the extent possible to reduce transportation and
disposal costs; and
(3) recycling of Drug packaging to the extent feasible.

Sec. 46-105 - Stewardship Plans - Collection of Covered Drugs.
(a) This Section does not require any Person to serve as a Collector in a Stewardship Plan. A
Person may offer to serve as a Collector voluntarily, or may agree to serve as a Collector in
exchange for incentives or payment offered by a Producer, group of Producers or Stewardship
Organization. Collectors may include law enforcement agencies, Pharmacies, mail-back services
or other entities, operating in accordance with state and federal laws and regulations for the
handling of Covered Drugs, including but not limited to those of the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration, and in compliance with this Division. A Pharmacy collection site
shall operate under applicable rules and guidelines of the Safe Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of
Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et. seq.
(b) The collection system for each Stewardship Plan shall:
(1) Provide reasonably convenient and equitable access for County residents in all Districts
through drop-off sites. The system of drop-off sites shall provide at least one drop-off site for
every 20,000 County residents in each District, located in every city, town or unincorporated area,
geographically distributed to provide reasonably convenient and equitable access, but at no time
shall there be less than five drop-offsites per District. If the service convenience goal in this
subsection (b)(1) cannot be achieved due to a lack of drop-off sites at pharmacies, law
enforcement agencies, or other qualified Collectors in each District, then those areas shall be
served through periodic collection events and/or or mail-back services. The system of drop-off
sites shall provide in every city, town, or unincorporated community service area with a
pharmacy or law enforcement facility, one drop-off site and a minimum of at least one additional
drop-off site for every thirty thousand residents, geographically distributed to provide reasonably
convenient and equitable access.
(2) Be safe and secure, including providing for the prompt destruction of patient information on
Drug packaging.
(3) Give preference to having Retail Pharmacies and law enforcement agencies serve as drop-off
sites.

Page 9 of 15

 (4) Include, as Collectors, any Pharmacy or any law enforcement agency willing to serve
voluntarily as a drop-off site for Unwanted Covered Drugs and able to meet the requirements of
this Division within three months of their offer to participate, unless the Collector requests a
longer time frame. A Stewardship Plan may also accept other Collectors willing to serve as a
drop-off site for Unwanted Covered Drugs and able to meet the requirements of this Division;
and
(5) Make mail-back services available, free of charge, to disabled and homebound County
residents upon request through the Stewardship Plan’s toll-free telephone number and web site,
and through distribution of prepaid, preaddressed mailers to Persons providing services to such
County residents. The toll-free telephone number and web site required by this subsection (b)(5)
shall be in English, Spanish, Polish, Chinese, Korean, and Russian.
(c) In addition to the collection system described in subsection (b)(1), all stewardships plans
shall jointly operate a drop-off site within each County-owned pharmacy.
(d) Drop-off sites shall accept all Covered Drugs from County residents during all hours that the
Pharmacy, law enforcement agency, or other Collector is normally open for business with the
public. Drop-off sites not operated by a law enforcement agency shall utilize secure collection
bins in compliance with all applicable requirements, including but not limited to those of the
United States Drug Enforcement Administration and the Safe Pharmaceutical Disposal Act of
Illinois, 210 ILCS 150/1, et. seq. In the event that more than one Stewardship Plan operates a
drop-off site at a particular location, each drop-off site must accept all Covered Drugs.
Sec. 46-106 - Stewardship Plans - Promotion.
(a) All Stewardship Plans shall coordinate with each other and develop a single system of
promotion that shall:
(1) Promote the Stewardship Plans so that collection options for Covered Drugs are widely
understood by County residents, pharmacists, retailers of Covered Drugs and health care
practitioners including doctors and other prescribers, veterinarians and veterinary hospitals,
and promote the safe storage of Covered Drugs by County residents;
(2) Work with Collectors participating in Stewardship Plans to develop clear, standardized
instructions for County residents on the use of collection bins and a readily-recognizable,
consistent design of collection bins;
(1) Establish a single toll-free telephone number and single web site where collection options and
current locations of drop-off sites will be publicized, and prepare educational and outreach
materials promoting safe storage of medicines and describing where and how to return
Unwanted Covered Drugs to the Stewardship Plan. These materials must be provided to
Pharmacies, health care facilities, veterinary facilities, and other interested parties for
dissemination to County residents. Plain language and explanatory images should be used to
make use of medicine collection services readily understandable by all County residents,
including individuals with limited English proficiency;

Page 10 of 15

 (3) Conduct a biennial survey of County residents and a survey of pharmacists, veterinarians,
and health professionals in the County who interact with patients on use of medicines after the
first full year of operation of the plans. Survey questions shall measure percent awareness of
the Stewardship Plans, assess to what extent drop-off sites and other collection methods are
convenient and easy to use, and assess knowledge and attitudes about risks of abuse,
poisonings and overdoses from prescription and nonprescription medicines used in the home.
Draft survey questions shall be submitted to the Director for review and comment at least 30
days prior to initiation of the survey. Results of the survey shall be reported to the Director
and made available to the public on the website required in this Sec. 46-106 within 90 days of
the end of the survey period. The privacy of all survey respondents shall be maintained.
(b) All surveys, outreach, education, promotion, websites, and toll-free phone numbers required by
this Section 16-106 shall be in English, Spanish, Polish, Chinese, Korean, and Russian.
(c) The Director shall provide guidance on the development of a single system of promotion.

Sec. 46-107 - Stewardship Plans - Disposal of Covered Drugs.
(a) Covered Drugs collected under a Stewardship Plan must be disposed of at a permitted
hazardous waste disposal facility as defined by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under 40 C.F.R. parts 264 and 265.

(b) The Director may grant approval for a Stewardship Plan to dispose of some or all collected
Covered Drugs at a permitted large municipal waste combustor, as defined by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency under 40 C.F.R. parts 60 and 62, if the Director deems the use
of a hazardous waste disposal facility described under subsection (a) of this Sec. 46-107 to be
infeasible for the Stewardship Plan based on cost, ogistics or other considerations.
(c) A Stewardship Plan may petition the Director for approval to use final disposal technologies
that provide superior environmental and human health protection than provided by the disposal
technologies in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 6 or equivalent protection at lesser cost.
The proposed technology must provide equivalent or superior protection in each of the following
areas:
(1) monitoring of any emissions or waste;
(2) worker health and safety;
(3) reduction or elimination of air, water or land emissions contributing to persistent,
bioaccumulative, and toxic pollution; and
(4) overall impact on the environment and human health.

Page 11 of 15

 Sec. 46-108 - Stewardship Plans - Administrative and Operational Costs and Fees.
(a) A Producer or group of Producers participating in a Stewardship Plan shall pay all
administrative and operational costs related to their Stewardship Plan, except as provided
under this Sec. 46-108. Administrative and operational costs related to the Stewardship
Plan include but are not limited to the following:
(1) Collection and transportation supplies for each drop-off site;
(2) Acquisition of all secure collection bins for drop-off sites;
(3) Ongoing maintenance or replacement of secure collection bins, as requested by
Collectors;
(4) Prepaid, preaddressed mailers provided to disabled and/or home-bound County
residents;
(5) Operation of periodic collection events, including costs of law enforcement staff time
if necessary;
(6) Transportation of all collected Covered Drugs to final disposal, including costs of law
enforcement escort if necessary;
(7) Environmentally sound disposal of all collected Covered Drugs under Sec. 46-107 of
this Division;
(8) Program promotion under Sec. 46-106 of this Division; and
(a) No Person or Producer may charge a point-of-sale fee to consumers to recoup the
costs of their Stewardship Plan, nor may they charge a specific point-of-collection fee at
the time the Covered Drugs are collected.
(b) Producers are not required to pay for costs of staff time at drop-off sites provided by
Collectors volunteering to participate in a Stewardship Plan.
Sec. 46-109 - Stewardship Plans - Reporting Requirements.
(1) Within six months after the end of the first 12-month period of operation, and
annually thereafter, the plan operator of a Stewardship Plan shall submit a report to
the Director on behalf of participating Producers describing their plan’s activities
during the previous reporting period. The report must include:
(2) A list of Producers participating in the Stewardship Plan;
(3) The amount, by weight, of Covered Drugs collected, including the amount by weight
from each collection method used;
(4) A list of drop-off sites;

Page 12 of 15

 (5) The number of mailers provided for disabled and/or home-bound County residents;
(6) The locations where mailers were provided, if applicable;
(7) The dates and locations of collection events held, if applicable;
(8) The transporters used and the disposal facility or facilities used for all Covered drugs;
(9) Whether any safety or security problems occurred during collection, transportation or
disposal of Unwanted Covered Drugs during the reporting period and, if so, what changes
have or will be made to policies, procedures or tracking mechanisms to alleviate the
problem and to improve safety and security in the future;
(10) A description of the public education, outreach and evaluation activities
implemented during the reporting period;
(11) A description of how collected packaging was recycled to the extent feasible,
including the recycling facility or facilities used;
(12) A summary of the Stewardship Plan’s goals, the degree of success in meeting those
goals in the past year, and, if any goals have not been met, what effort will be made to
achieve the goals in the next year; and
(12) The total expenditures of the Stewardship Plan during the reporting period.
(b) The Director shall make reports submitted under this Section available to the public.
(c) For the purposes of this Sec. 46-109, “reporting period” means the period from
January 1 through December 31 of the same calendar year, unless otherwise specified to
the plan operator by the Director.
Sec. 46-110 - Stewardship Plans - List Of Producers of Covered Drugs.
Beginning 60 days after the effective date of this Division, each Drug Wholesaler that sells any
Covered Drug in the County must provide a list of the Producers of those Covered Drugs to the
Director in a form prescribed by the Director. Wholesalers must update and resubmit the list by
January 15 each year.
Sec. 46-111 - Stewardship Plans - Review Of Proposed Plans.
(a) By one year after the effective date of this Division, or one year after starting sale of a
Covered Drug in the County, each Producer, group of Producers or Stewardship Organization
shall submit its proposed Stewardship Plan to the Director for review, accompanied by the plan
review fee in accordance with Sec. 46-115 of this Division. The Director may upon request
provide information, counseling, and technical assistance about the requirements of this Division
to assist with the development of a proposed Stewardship Plan.

Page 13 of 15

 (b) The Director shall review the proposed Stewardship Plan and determine whether it meets the
requirements of this Division. In reviewing a proposed Stewardship Plan, the Director shall
provide an opportunity for written public comment on the proposed Stewardship Plan and
consider any comments received.
(c) After the review under subsection (b) of this Sec. 46-111 and within 90 days after receipt of
the proposed Stewardship Plan, the Director shall either approve or reject the proposed
Stewardship Plan in writing and, if rejected, provide reasons for the rejection.
(d) If the Director rejects a proposed Stewardship Plan, a Producer, group of Producers, or
Stewardship Organization must submit a revised Stewardship Plan to the Director within 60 days
after receiving written notice of the rejection. The Director shall review and approve or reject a
revised Stewardship Plan as provided under subsections (b) and (c) of this Sec. 46-111.
(e) If the Director rejects a revised Stewardship Plan, or any subsequently revised plan, the
Director may deem the Producer or group of Producers out of compliance with this Division and
subject to the enforcement provisions in this Division.
(f) In approving a proposed Stewardship Plan, the Director may exercise reasonable discretion to
waive strict compliance with the requirements of this Division that apply to Producers in order to
achieve the objectives of this Division.
(g) The Director shall make all Stewardship Plans and proposed plans submitted under this
Section 46-111 available to the public.

Sec. 46-112 - Stewardship Plans - Prior Approval for Change.
(a) Proposed changes to an approved Stewardship Plan that substantively alter plan operations,
including, but not limited to, changes to participating Manufacturers, collection methods,
achievement of the service convenience goal, policies and procedures for handling Unwanted
Covered Drugs, or education and promotion methods or disposal facilities, must be approved in
writing by the Director before the changes are implemented.
(b) A Producer or group of Producers or Stewardship Organization participating in an approved
Stewardship Plan shall submit proposed changes to an approved Stewardship Plan within six
months upon notice from the Director of a change to the population of a District as described in
Sec. 46-105 (b)(1).
(c) A Producer or group of Producers or Stewardship Organization participating in a Stewardship
Plan shall submit to the Director any proposed change to a Stewardship
There was no action taken on this proposed ordinance

Page 14 of 15

 ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this meeting
be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Aye:

Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Butler, Daley, Gainer, García,
Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele (13)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Goslin, Murphy and Tobolski (4)

Respectfully submitted,

_________________________________
Chairman

__________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 15 of 15

 