MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
April 23, 2015
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Thursday, April 23, 2015 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:06 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members Lee
Gould and Hector Alejandre. Member Thomas Dunn participated via telephone.
Member Gould moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from the Illinois
Gaming Board Regular Meeting held on March 26, 2015. Member Alejandre seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
BOARD POLICY ITEM:
Legislative Liaison Caleb Melamed addressed the Board.
Section 5 (c) (3) of the Riverboat Gambling Act [230 ILCS 10] confers rulemaking
authority upon the Illinois Gaming Board (IGB”) regarding riverboat gambling. The IGB’s legal
staff proposes the following amendments relating to meeting procedures contained in Riverboat
Gambling Rule 105 [86 Ill. Admin. Code 3000.105]. The new rule language conforms to
applicable provisions of the Open Meetings Act.
Counting members toward a quorum
Section 2.01 of the Open Meetings Act [5 ILCS 120/2.01] allows a member of a public
body to be counted as part of a quorum, even if not physically present, if:
1) The member participates by interactive videoconference from a public building
(which may include one of the public body’s offices), and
2) The public body provides public notice and public access for all locations at which its
members will be present.
The proposed rulemaking incorporates these statutory provisions.
Participation of Board members in excess of a quorum by video or audio conference
Section 7 of the Open Meetings Act [5 ILCS 120/2.06] provides that when a quorum of
members of a body is physically present, additional members of the body may participate by
video or audio conferencing if they are “prevented from physically attending because of: (i)

 personal illness or disability; (ii) employment purposes or the business of the public body; or (iii)
family or other emergency.” Such absentee participation is possible only in accordance with,
and to the extent allowed by, the rules of the body. The proposed rulemaking authorizes
attendance of IGB members by audio or video conferencing, duplicating the statutory language
on this subject.
Duration of Public Comments
Section 2.06 (g) of the Open Meetings Act [5 ILCS 120/2.06 (g)] provides that “[a]ny
person shall be permitted an opportunity to address public officials under the rules established
and recorded by the public body.” The proposed rule language establishes that the comments by
each member of the public shall be limited to a reasonable period of time not to exceed five
minutes, unless the Board gives permission for a longer presentation.
Notice Requirement for Public Comments
In Public Access Opinion 14-012, the Illinois Attorney General invalidated, as too
restrictive, a rule of the McClean County Board requiring public commenters to give 5 business
days’ notice, with the county board allowed to waive this 5-day requirement by majority vote.
The Attorney General held that Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act [5 ILCS 120/2.06]
“gives members of the public a right to address a public body, subject to the significant
government interests of conserving time, ensuring that others have the opportunity to speak, and
preserving decorum.” The Attorney General did not specify, however, what would be a
sufficiently short notice requirement for public commenters.
Currently, the IGB requests 5 days’ notice from members of the public who wish to
address the Board. Under the holding of Public Access Opinion 14-012, this is probably too long
a time. Accordingly, it is proposed to shorten the required notice period to 2 days, subject to the
Board’s diminishment or waiver of the notice requirement.
The IGB’s meeting agendas are published about 72 hours before open meetings. The
shortened notice period thus will give public commenters the ability to learn the contents of a
forthcoming meeting agenda before the deadline for requesting public comment has expired.
Recording of meetings
Section 2.05 of the Open Meetings Act [5 ILCS 120/2.05] allows the recording of the
proceedings at IGB meetings by tape, film, or other means, and directs that “the authority
holding the meeting shall prescribe reasonable rules to govern the right to make such
recordings.” The proposed rulemaking allows any person to photograph, tape, film, or otherwise
record the open portion of Board meetings, provided that persons may be required to locate their
cameras or other recording devices at a sufficient distance from the Board members to avoid
interference with the Board's discussion.

2

 Cross-reference to video gaming rules
Riverboat Gambling Rule 105 currently contains no reference to video gaming. The proposed
rulemaking adds such a reference, thus clarifying that the provisions of this rule equally cover
the video gaming portion of open Board meetings. Separately, the video gaming rules will be
amended to add a reference to Riverboat Gambling Rule 105.
•

Proposed Changes to Board Rule 3000.105:
Based on Staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to add a new section to
Board Rule 3000.105 in order to conform to certain provisions of the Open
Meetings Act by authorizing staff to submit a proposal for First Notice Filing
with the Secretary of State upon final review and approval by the
Administrator. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.

PUBLIC COMMENTARY:
Mr. Tom Swoik, Executive Director of the Illinois Casino Gaming Association addressed the
Board and introduced a representative of Bensinger DuPont who advised the Board of problem
gambling assistance programs.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS:
• Boyd Gaming Corporation:
Based on Staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to approve Boyd Gaming
Corporation’s request for Board approval of Par-A-Dice Casino as a Subsidiary
Guarantor of Boyd’s Senior Unsecured Notes in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $850 million. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
•

Par-A-Dice Casino & Hotel – William Stage – Key Person
Based on Staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to approve William Stage
as a Key Person of Par-A-Dice Casino and Hotel in his position as Internal Audit
Director at Boyd Gaming Corporation. Member Gould seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS:
• Approvals & Denials:
Based on Staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to find suitable and approve
58 Level 2 occupational licenses and 135 Level 3 occupational licenses. Member
Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote.
•

Melissa Velarde:
Based on Staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to rescind the March 26,
2015 denial of the occupational license of Melissa Velarde and move to issue her

3

 an occupational license effective April 23, 2015.
Member Gould seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
REQUESTS FOR HEARING & REQUESTS TO REAPPLY:
Based on Staff’s investigation, Member Gould moved to deny the request for
hearing from Terry Linton as he has failed to establish a prima facie case, deny
the request for hearing from Melissa Velarde as moot, and grant the request to
reapply from Betty Alm. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
COMPLAINTS & DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
• Constanta Radu:
Based on staff’s investigation, Member Alejandre moved to issue a Disciplinary
Complaint to revoke the occupational license of Constanta Radu due to her
unauthorized taking of a patron’s lost $500 chip, said action to take effect 21
days from the date of service of the Complaint unless the licensee files an Answer
within that time frame. Member Gould seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

At 9:27 A.M. Member Gould motioned to adjourn and Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

4

 