Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Chairman of Finance Frank
Avila, Commissioner Timothy Bradford, Vice President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos
Thursday, December 3, 2015

2:00 PM

Board Room

CONSIDER THE PROPOSED 2016 BUDGET

Call Meeting to Order
Commissioner Kari K. Steele, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and
Employment, presiding, called the meeting to order at 2:00 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

1-

Michael A. Alvarez

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
15-0934

Pursuant to 70 ILCS 2605/5.6 of the “Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District Act”, public notice is hereby given that a Public Hearing will be
held at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday, December 3, 2015, in the Board Room,
100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the proposed Budget
and proposed tax levy of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016.
The Tentative Budget is available for review on the District’s website,
www.mwrd.org and also on file and available for inspection in the Office
of the Clerk of the District, Room 243, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

December 3, 2015

Open Discussion
Laurence J. Msall, President of the Civic Federarion presented comments and
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners on the proposed 2016 MWRD
budget.
Anthony Cefali, Friends of the Chicago River, expressed gratitude for the the District's
accomplishments and willigness to particpate in joint projects with the Friends of the
Chicago River

A15-004
Attachments:

The Civic Federation Ltr
The Civic Federation Analysis and Recommendations
Friends of the Chicago River

Adjournment
A motion was made by Timothy Bradford, seconded by Cynthia M. Santos, that
this Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

8-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

1-

Michael A. Alvarez

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 3, 2015, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 3, 2015

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 