STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 16, 2018
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.— 160 N. LaSalle Street, Room S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman; Christopher Glynn, Member of the Board; John Samolis, Member of the Board; Keith Snyder,
Member of the Board; Kimberly F. Stevens, Executive Director; Helen J. Kim, General Counsel; Anna Hamburg-Gal,
Associate General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD September 11, 2018

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the September 11, 2018 meeting. Member Samolis moved to
approve the minutes. Member Snyder seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

REVIEW OF PROPOSED WRITTEN DECISIONS AND ORDERS
1. Case No. S-CB-18-023
George Pruitt, III and American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council
31

General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. S-CA-16-133
Travis Koester and County of Sangamon and Sheriff of Sangamon County
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Snyder made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Samolis seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Glynn abstained
from participating in this decision due to his absence at the September meeting.
3. Case No. S-CA-18-074
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee and City of Decatur
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Glynn abstained
from participating in this decision due to his absence at the September meeting.
4. Case No. S-CA-18-085
Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee and City of Sparta
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Glynn abstained
from participating in this decision due to his absence at the September meeting.
5. Case No. S-CA-18-104
Diane Norwood and State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services (Human
Services, John J. Madden Center)
General Counsel Kim called the case. Member Samolis made a motion to approve the proposed written decision.
Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Glynn abstained
from participating in this decision due to his absence at the September meeting.

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.

Case No. S-RC-17-003
Int’l Association of Firefighters, Local 2391, AFL-CIO, CLC and Village of River Forest

General Counsel Kim called and presented the issues of the case to the Board. After discussion, Member Samolis
moved to accept in part and reject in part the Administrative Law Judge’s Recommended Decision and Order. Member
Glynn seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2. Case No. S-UC-17-067
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services and American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Kim called and presented the issues of the case to the Board. After discussion, Member Samolis
moved to accept the Administrative Law Judge’s Recommended Decision and Order. Member Glynn seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3. Case No. S-CA-17-060
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
General Counsel Kim recused herself from this case and asked Executive Director Stevens to present the issues of the
case to the Board. After discussion, Member Samolis moved to accept the Administrative Law Judge’s Recommended
Decision and Order. Member Glynn seconded the motion. The motion passed with three ayes and one nay; Member
Snyder dissented.
4. Case No. S-CA-17-001
Illinois Council of Police and City of Venice
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
5. Case No. S-CA-17-049
State of Illinois, Department of Central Management Services and American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Kim called the case and noted that no party filed exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge’s
Recommended Decision and Order. The Board declined to review the decision on its own motion.
6. Case No. S-CA-16-006-C
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 and State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
General Counsel Kim recused herself from this case and asked Executive Director Stevens to present the Motion that
was filed to the Board. After discussion, Member Samolis moved to grant the Motion and ask the Attorney General’s
office to intervene. Member Snyder seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.

2

 VII.

PUBLIC COMMENT

No members of the public sought to make comments.
VIII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Samolis moved to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board,
in Chicago and Springfield, Illinois, this 14th day of November 2018.

3

 