Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila,
Vice-President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia
M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Chairman of Finance
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner Patrick D.Thompson, President Kathleen
Therese Meany
Thursday, October 30, 2014

10:00 AM

Board Room

COMMITTEE ON BUDGET & EMPLOYMENT

Call Meeting to Order
President Kathleen Therese Meany presiding, called the meeting to order at 10:00
a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; and Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

1-

Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
14-1232
Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will
hold a public hearing at 10:00 a.m. on the 30th day of October, 2014, in the
Board Room at the Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois. The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public
comments on the Capital Improvement Program.
By order of Kathleen Therese Meany, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago.
Dated the 16th day of October, 2014.
/s/Jacqueline Torres
Clerk, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
Attachments:

2014 Presentation CIP
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Patrick D. Thompson, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

October 30, 2014

Open Discussion
Catherine A. O'Connor, Director of Engineering, presented a report to the Board on the
District's Capital Improvement Projects

Adjournment
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Cynthia M. Santos, that this
Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; Patrick D. Thompson; Kathleen Therese Meany

Absent:

1-

Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this October 30, 2014, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Kathleen Therese Meany
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
October 30, 2014

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 