Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, March 8, 2017

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-2122
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 2/8/2017
17-2016
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the standing Consent Calendar meeting held on 1/17/2017.

Page 1 of 4

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 8, 2017

17-2017
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 01/18/2017.
17-2019
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the standing Consent Calendar meeting held on 2/7/2017 recessed and reconvened 2/8/2017.
17-2020
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 2/8/2017.
17-0058
Sponsored by:
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, ROBERT STEELE and LUIS
ARROYO JR, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
DOCUMENTS TO THE BOARD

TIME

LIMITS

FOR

DISTRIBUTION

OF

DEPARTMENTAL

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Article III - County Board,
Division 2. - Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-105 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as Follows:

(j) Agendas.
(1) Board meeting agenda. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered at the
meeting, except for items to be included in the consent calendar as set forth in subsection (3) of
this Section. Material pertinent to an item on a Board agenda shall be supplied, along with the
agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the exception of materials that
are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the public in the

Page 2 of 4

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 8, 2017

office of the Secretary.
a. Items may be placed on an agenda not later than noon of the day previous to the day on
which an agenda is required to be distributed. This subsection shall not apply to items
reported to the Board by any of its committees of the whole.
b. Items may be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the President or any
Commissioner. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an ordinance or
resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Committee reports shall be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the Chair of the
committee. Items may be placed on the agenda of a committee meeting by a
Commissioner who is a member of the committee or the President, in his ex officio
capacity, provided that such item has been referred to the committee by the Board
pursuant to Section 2-106(o).
c. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare, post and distribute all agendas for meetings of the
Board, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare, post and distribute agendas for
committee meetings.
d. No issuance of any debt instrument which pledges the full faith and credit of the County
shall be the subject of final action by the Board of Commissioners unless it has been
preceded by at least one public hearing on the prospective matter by the Finance
Committee. Notification of such hearing shall be the responsibility of the Finance
Committee, which notice shall be as set forth in Section 2-105(i).
e. Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of the Board
shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of the meeting at
which the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or substitute, the
Secretary shall immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the President, all
Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be
posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to be
held, and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary. This rule
may be waived for technical amendments or emergencies.
f. Departmental reports, including but not limited to, reports required by ordinance or
resolution, submitted by a department head with any item on an agenda of a Board or
committee meeting shall be distributed or made available to all Commissioners no later
than 72 hours in advance of said meeting at which the item will be considered, unless said
items are solely referred to a committee for later action. Failure to adhere to this
subsection shall defer the item to the following scheduled Board or Committee meeting,
unless the committee or board votes by a two-thirds majority to allow such reports on the
agenda.
(2) New items agenda. The Secretary shall prepare a new items agenda to be issued subsequent to

Page 3 of 4

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 8, 2017

the issuance of the Board agenda for a regular meeting. Items may be placed on the agenda by
the President or by Commissioners. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an
ordinance or resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Each communication, motion, resolution, or ordinance, after being read by the Clerk, may be
acted upon immediately by the Board, or referred to committee, as ordered by the Board subject
to the "Prior notice to public" provisions of this division.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect Immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

12/14/16 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Com

Legislative History :

2/8/17 - Rules and Administration Committee - recommend for deferral

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Daley
Members:
Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele

Page 4 of 4

 