STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
LOCAL PANEL
Minutes of the Local Panel Meeting
Held on July 8, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 10:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-401, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Robert M. Gierut, Chairman; Charles E. Anderson, Member of the Board; Richard Lewis, Member of the Board; Jerald S.
Post, General Counsel; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director, Deputy General Counsel Sarah Kerley; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD June 12, 2014

Chairman Gierut called for approval of the minutes of the June 12, 2014 meeting. Member Anderson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Lewis seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gierut asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the Local Panel administrative actions report for the period
of time from June 1 through June 30, 2014. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The Board examined
the report and discussed it. Chairman Gierut then noted that presentation of the fiscal, legislative, litigation and mediation
reports would be deferred to the scheduled joint meeting of the Local Panel and State Panel later that day.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. L-CA-14-054
Deborah Ticey/ City of Chicago

General Counsel Post called the case. He then asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present and
discuss the issues of the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on May 29, 2014, the
Executive Director issued a dismissal of the charge alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(a) of the Illinois Public
Labor Relations Act. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal then reviewed the issues raised by the Charging Party’s
appeal. After her presentation, she recommended that the Executive Director’s dismissal be affirmed. After discussion,
Member Lewis moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
2.
Case No. L-CB-14-025
Deborah Ticey/ American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
General Counsel Post called the case. He then asked Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss the
issues of the case to the Board. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal stated that on May 29, 2014, the Executive
Director issued a dismissal of the charge alleging that Respondent violated Section 10(b) of the Illinois Public Labor
Relations Act. Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal then reviewed the issues raised by the Charging Party’s appeal.
After her presentation, she recommended that the Executive Director’s dismissal be affirmed. After discussion, Member
Lewis moved to accept the Executive Director’s dismissal. Member Anderson seconded the motion, and the Board passed
it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gierut called for a motion to adjourn. Member Anderson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the Local Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 14th day of August, 2014.

 