Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting
Tuesday, December 6, 2016

2:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos presiding, called the meeting to order at 2:00
p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; and Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

16-1285

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
Of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday, December 6,
2016 at 2:00 PM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Installation of Commissioners will occur at the Annual Meeting

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Debra Shore, that
this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus
of ayes - No nays

2

16-1286
Attachments:

President's Annual Message 2016
Presidents Message 2016
A motion was made by Timothy Bradford, seconded by Debra Shore, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Annual Meeting

Meeting Minutes

December 6, 2016

Open Discussion
Sarah Garza Resnick, of the Cook County Clerk's Office, presented the Certificates of
Election to newly elected Commissioners Martin J. Durkan and Josina Wing Morita, and
to re-elected Commissioners Mariyana T. Spyropoulos and Barbara J. McGowan
Following the presentation, the Honorable James McGing, administered the Oath of
Office to newly elected Commissioner Martin J. Durkin, the Honorable Anjana M. J.
Hansen, adminstered the Oath of Office to newly elected Commissioner Josina Wing
Morita, the Honorable Charles P. Kocoras, adminstered the Oath of office to re-elected
Commissioner Mariyana T. Spyropoulos and the Honorable Timothy Evans,
adminstered the Oath of Office to re-elected Commissioner Barbara J. McGowan

Adjournment
A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Debra Shore, that
this Annual Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Martin J. Durkan; Barbara J. McGowan; Josina
Morita; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Kari K. Steele; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this December 6, 2016, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 6, 2016

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 