REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION,
INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS

September 13, 2010

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Beavers, Butler,
Claypool, Collins, Daley, Gainer, Gorman, Goslin, Moreno, Murphy, Peraica,
Reyes, Schneider and Sims (16)

Absent: Commissioner Steele (1 

Also Present: Zelda Whitler, Undersheriff, Cook County Sheriff?s Office

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation, intergovernmental Veterans Relations of the Board 'of
Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Monday, September 13, 2010 at the
hour of 11:00 AM. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

308428 AN ORDINANCE AMENDMENT TO THE ILLINOIS STATE CRIME
VETERANS EQUITY TRANSITION PROPOSAL FOR POST 9-
11 VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES MILITARY (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
William M. Beavers, County Commissioner; Co?sponsored by The Honorable Todd
H. Stroger, President, Jerry Butler, Forrest Claypool, Earlean Collins, John P.
Daley, Bridget Gainer, Elizabeth ?Liz" Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Joseph Mario
Moreno, Joan Patricia Murphy, Anthony J. Peraica, Edwin Reyes, Timothy 0.
Schneider, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele and Larry Suffredin,
County Commissioners.

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment:
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
THE ILLINOIS STATE CRIME VETERANS EQUITY

TRANSITION PROPOSAL FOR POST 9-11 VETERANS OF THE UNITED
STATES MILITARY

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 2

WHEREAS, the Cook County Veterans Preference and Qualified Veteran Owned
Business Incentive Acts serves as mechanisms to assist those persons who
served in active duty in the United States military under conditions as set forth
below; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 34 Finance, Section 34-158 of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-158. Preference to citizens on public works projects.

The Purchasing Agent shall specify in the call for bids for any
contract for public works that contractors bidding on public works contracts of the
County shall conform to the Public Works Preference Act (30 56010.01 et
seq.). The Purchasing Agent in awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted in
any contract for public works a stipulation to the effect that the contractor shall
conform to such Act.

Veterans preference. A preference will be given to bidders that
utilize at least five percent of eligible veterans of the United States Armed Forces
as defined in this Article who are bona fide veterans of a post-September 11, 2001
military conflict and are County residents.

(1) For purposes of this sectionl in the employment and appointment to
fill positions in the constructionpaddition to. or alteration of all public

works undertaken or contracted for by the County. preference shall
be given to persons who have been members of the armed forces
of the United States or who, while citizens of the United States,
were members of the armed forces of allies of the United States in
time of hostilities occurring after St?jtember 11, 2001, with a foreign
country. and have served under one or more of the following
conditions:

a. The veteran served a total of at least 6 months. or

b. The veteran served for the duration of hostilities regardless
of the length of engagement; or

c. The veteran served in the theater of operations but was
discharged on the basis of a hardship; or

d. The veteran was released from active duty because of a
service connected disability and was honorably discharged.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 34 Finance, Section 34-160 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted
as follows:

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 3

Sec. 34-160. Qualified veteran owned business incentive.

Quali?ed veteran owned business means a business entity that is
51% or more owned by one or more veterans as defined in Sec. 34-158tbil1].

lb) In awardinq a contract under this section, the Purchasinq Aqent
shall qive a preference of up to 5% of the amount of the contract to a quali?ed
veteran owned business. if the qualified veteran owned business otherwise meets
the requirements of the contract solicitation and with the preference is the lowest
bidder. the purchasinq aqent shall enter into a procurement contract with the
qualified veteran owned business under this act. If two or more qualified veteran
owned businesses are the lowest bidders on a contract. all other thinqs beinq
equal. the qualified veteran owned business with the lowest bid shall be awarded
the contract under this act.

(0) It is the coal of the County to award each vear not less than 5% of
its total expenditures for construction. needs. and services to qualified veteran
owned businesses. The purchasinq aqent mav count toward its 5% vearlv goal
described in this subsection that portion of all procurement contracts in which the
business entity that received the procurement contract subcontracts with a
qualified veteran owned business. Each year. the Purchasinq Aqent shall report to
the Board of Commissioners on all of the followino for the immediatelv precedinq
twelve month period:

L1) The number of qualified veteran owned businesses who submitted
a bid for a Countv procurement contract.

(2) The number of quali?ed veteran owned businesses who entered
into procurement contracts with this county and the total value of
those procurement contracts.

(3) Whether the countv achieved the qoal described in this subsection.

(4) Each year, the Purchasinq Aqent shall review the proqress of all
Countv aqencies in meetinq the 5% qoal with input from countywide
veterans service orqanizations and from the business community
including gualified veteran owned businesses, and shall make
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners reqardinq
continuation, increases. or decreases in the percentaqe coal. The
recommendations shall be based upon the number of qualified
veteran owned business and on the continued need to en'couraqe
and promote businesses owned by qualified veterans.

(5) The President shall recommend to the Board of Commissioners
chanqes in proqrams to assist quali?ed veteran owned businesses.

Any person who knowinqu and willfully violates the provisions of
this Act. is quiltv of a petty offense and shall be ?ned not less than nor more
than $300 for each offense.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL 8: VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 4

Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall take effect immediately upon
adop?on.

*Referred to the Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans Relations
Committee on 09-01-10.

Commissioner Beavers, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved the approval of
Communication No. 308428. The motion carried.

308429

AN AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 34 FINANCE, ARTICLE IV PROCUREMENT
AND CONTRACTS, DIVISION 6 MINORITY-AND BUSINESS
ENTERPRISES, SUBDIVISION I GENERAL PROVISIONS, SECTION 34-285 OF
THE COOK COUNTY CODE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Joseph Mario
Moreno and Joan Patricia Murphy, County Commissioners; Co-Sponsored by
Edwin Reyes and Peter N. Silvestri, County Commissioners

The following is a synopsis of the Proposed Ordinance Amendment.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
WHEREAS, as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the United
States of America has redeployed its military for the ?war on terror" with personnel

seeing active combat, most notably in Afghanistan and Iraq; and

BE IT by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34
Finance, Article IV Procurement and Contracts, Sections 34-271 through 34-285 of
the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

ARTICLE IV. PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTS

DIVISION 6. OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES

 

Sec. 34-2751. Short title.

Sec. 34-2762. Purpose; policy and findings.

Sec. 34-2713. Definitions.

Sec. 34-2784. Staffing and responsibilities for affirmative action.

Sec. 34-2795. Application of division.

Sec. 34-28076. Program goals.

Sec. 34-28?177. Implementation.

Sec. 34-28278. Professionals and consulting services and sole source
agreements.

Sec. 34-28379. Other Federal and State regulations.

Sec. 34-2840. Preference to residents of County.

Sec. 34-2851. Reporting?and?reviaw Preference to Service-Disabled

Veteran Businesses.
Sec. 34-282. Reporting and review.
Secs. 34-283-34-285. Reserved.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010

PAGE 5

Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately
upon adoption.

*Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans
Relations Committee on 09-01-10.

Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Reyes, moved to approve
Communication No. 308429.

Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to accept the
Substitute Ordinance Amendment to Communication No. 308429. The motion carried.

Commissioner Moreno, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to approve the
Substitute Ordinance Amendment for Communication No. 308429 as amended. The
motion carried.

SUBSTITUTE TO ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FOR COMMUNICATION #308429 (amendments are in bold and underlined)

Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE JOSEPH MARIO MORENO and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Co-Sponsored by

THE HONORABLE EDWIN REYES and PETER N. SILVESTRI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

WHEREAS, as a? result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States of
America has redeployed its military for the ?war on terror" with personnel seeing active combat,
most notably in Afghanistan and Iraq; and

WHEREAS, the men and women of the US. Armed Forces sel?essly serve our country and
sacri?ce much by placing their personal safety and ambitions second to protecting our country,
our ideals and our freedom; and

WHEREAS, many veterans have incurred or aggravated disabilities while in the line of duty
serving on active duty; and

WHEREAS, recognizing the extraordinary service of our veterans, President George W. Bush
sought to honor veterans with disabilities by issuing Executive Order 13360 on October 20,
2004, which seeks to provide increased opportunity for service?disabled veteran businesses to
participate in contracts through the Federal government; and

WHEREAS, in order to achieve this objective the President established a goal of not less than 3
percent participation for Federal contracting and subcontracting for service-disabled veteran
businesses; and

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 6

WHEREAS, the County of Cook should also seek to honor and assist service-disabled veteran
businesses by similarly seeking to increase the participation of said businesses in County
contracts. 

BE IT by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 34 Finance,
Article IV Procurement and Contracts, Sec. 34-271 through 34-285 of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:

ARTICLE IV. PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTS

DIVISION 6. OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES

Sec. 34-2751. Short title.

This division shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Minority- and
Women-Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance. 

Sec. 34-2762. Purpose; policy and findings.

It is the public policy of the County to ensure the full and equitable participation of
minority and female owned businesses in the County's procurement process as both prime and
subcontractors.

The County is committed to a policy of preventing discrimination in the award of or
participation in County contracts and eliminating arbitrary barriers to full participation in such
contracts by all persons, regardless of race, sex, or ethnicity.

Minority and women's businesses have contributed significantly to the economic
development of the community, and played a similar role in increasing employment, including
that of minorities.

Various Federal, State and local legislative bodies and governmental agencies have
adopted affirmative action programs in order to eradicate the practice of racial, ethnic and
sexual discrimination in the award of public contracts.

The County has heretofore adopted a Minority Business Enterprise Ordinance to
ensure that minority and women's businesses are provided full and equal opportunity to
participate in County contracts.

The Supreme Court of the United States in City of Richmond v. Croson. 488 US. 469
(1989), has enunciated certain standards which are necessary to maintain effective affirmative
action programs in compliance with constitutional requirements.

(9) The County is committed to implementing its af?rmative action program in
conformance with the United States Supreme Court's decision in City of Richmond v. Croson.

In furtherance of this commitment, the Cook County Board directed the County staff
and its outside consultants to conduct an investigation into the scope of any discrimination in the
award of and participation in County contracts as well as in the metropolitan Chicago economy,

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010


the extent to which such discrimination or the effects thereof has denied and continues to deny
minority and women's business enterprises equal opportunity to participate in County contracts
and to recommend the appropriate affirmative action steps to be taken to eliminate any such
discrimination and its continuing effects.

Pursuant to the County Board's direction, the County staff and its outside consultants
conducted such an investigation.

The County Board, having reviewed the report of the County's staff and its outside
consultants and having conducted public hearings and received the testimony of witnesses,
makes the following findings:

(1) Minority and women's businesses continue to be awarded prime contracts
and subcontracts in dollar amounts that are disproportionately lower than the
availability of such businesses willing and able to perform County contracts.

(2) The County's procurement practices in the past have contributed to the
above identified underutilization of minority and women's businesses on County
contracts.

(3) Minority and women's businesses continue to be disadvantaged by
discriminatory practices in the local construction industry and economy when
competing for County contracts and in seeking subcontracting opportunities on
such contracts.

(4) The County was a passive participant in the discriminatory practices of
businesses which discriminate against minority and women's businesses by
entering into contracts with such businesses.

(5) Despite its good faith efforts and implementation of previous affirmative
action programs, minority and women's businesses remain at a competitive
disadvantage in competing for County contracts and subcontracts.

(6) Race and gender neutral measures or af?rmative action programs without
numerical goals have not and are not likely to eliminate the competitive
disadvantage of minority and women's businesses in participating in County
contracts due to discrimination in the local economy.

(7) The numerical goals for the participation of minority and women's
businesses in County contracts are commensurate with the availability of minority
and women's businesses willing and able to perform County work.

Sec. 34-27131. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases. when used in this division shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:

Bona fide resident of the County means a person whose legal and actual residency is
within the County borders.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 8

Certified or certi?cation means registration of the Minority Business Enterprises or
Women's Business Enterprise status of a business in the County's Directory of Minority
Business Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises and Disadvantaged Business Enterprises
Directory").

Commercially useful function means the performance of real and actual services in the
discharge of any contractual endeavor. The contractor must perform a distinct element of work
which the business has the skill and expertise to perform and have the responsibility of actually
performing, managing and supervising such element of work.

Contract Compliance Administrator (CCA) means the Contract Compliance
Administrator of the County.

Contractor means any person or business entity that bids on or enters into a Contract
with the County, and includes all partners and all joint venturers of such person or entity.

Controlled, for purposes of determining whether a business is a minority business
enterprise or women's business enterprise, means the minority or the female owner shall:

(1) Possess and exercise the legal authority and power to manage business
assets, good will and daily operations of the business; and

(2) Actively and continuously exercise such managerial authority and power in
determining the policies and directing the daily operations of the business. If the
owners who are not minorities or females are disproportionately responsible for the
operation of the business, then the business is not controlled by minorities or
females.

County contracts means any contract, purchase order or agreement (other than a lease
or collective bargaining agreement):

(1) Where the cost is to be paid from funds belonging to or administered by the
County, including such funds subject to Federal reimbursement or which requires
that monies be paid to the County; and

(2) That is Board?valued at more than $25,000.00.

Joint venture means an association of two or more businesses formed to carry out a
single business enterprise for profit, and for which purpose they combine their expertise,
property, capital, efforts, skills and knowledge.

Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) means a certi?ed participating business at least 51
percent of which is owned and controlled by one or more members of one or more minority
groups or, in the case of a publicly held corporation, 51 percent of the stock is owned by one or
more members of one or more minority groups and whose daily business operations are
controlled by one or more such individuals. A minority group member is an individual who is one
of the following:

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 9

(1) African-American or Black (persons with origins in any of the Black racial
groups of Africa);

(2) HiSpanic American (persons of Spanish culture with origins from Puerto
Rico, Mexico, Cuba, South or Central America, Spain, Portugal, or the Caribbean
Islands regardless of race);

(3) Native American (American lndian);

(4) Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Japan, China, the
Philippines, Vietnam, Korea, Samoa, Guam, the US. Trust Territories of the
Paci?c, Northern Marianas, Laos, Cambodia, Taiwan, or the Indian subcontinent);
or

(5) Any other ethnically or racially identifiable group found by the Contract
Compliance Administrator to have suffered actual racial or ethnic discrimination
resulting in a competitive disadvantage or decreased opportunities to do business
with the County.

Owned means having all the customary incidents of ownership, including the right of
disposition. and the sharing in all risks and profits commensurate with the degree of ownership
interest.

Participating business means a business located within the counties of Cook, DuPage,
Kane, Lake, McHenry or Will in the State (the "Six-County Region") that has the majority of its
regular, full-time work force located within the Six-County Region and/or a business which has
been placed on the vendors list maintained by the Purchasing Agent and/or has bid on or
sought County work.

Program means the Minority and Women Owned Businesses Enterprise Program
established herein.

Protected Class Enterprise (PCE), for the purposes of this Program, shall mean those
businesses qualifying under the definitions of Minority Business Enterprise and Women's
Business Enterprise contained in this section.

Purchasing Agent means the Purchasing Agent of the County.

Women's Business Enterprise (WBE) means a certified participating business at least 51
percent of which is owned and controlled by one or more women, or, in the case of a publicly
held corporation, 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women and whose
daily business operations are controlled by one or more such individuals. Determination of
whether a business is at least 51 percent owned by a woman or women shall be made without
regard to community property laws.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 10

Sec. 34-27811. Staffing and responsibilities for affirmative action.

Contract Compliance Committee. The members of the County Board shall elect,
from the Board membership, a Contract Compliance Committee which shall consist of
seven members of the County Board and which shall hereinafter become and remain a
permanent Standing Committee of the County Board.

Contract Compliance Administrator.

(1) The provisions of this division and the affirmative action/procurement
program ("program") established hereunder shall be administered, supervised and
monitored by a Contract Compliance Administrator and staff.

(2) The Contract Compliance Administrator's duties shall include (but not be
limited to) the following areas:

a.

Devising a certification procedure to assure that businesses taking
advantage of this division are legitimate minority- or female-owned
businesses.

Maintaining a list of all bona ?de, certi?ed businesses.

Recommending guidelines and regulations for the use of Protected

Class Enterprise participation procedures which shall be approved by the
Contract Compliance Committee prior to submission to the County Board.
These guidelines shall include, but shall not be limited to, de?nition of goals;
conditions warranting and limiting waivers; and establishment of procedures
for participation in the program.

Recommending enforcement procedures which shall be approved by

the Contract Compliance Committee prior to submission to the County Board,
whereby the Committee may recommend to the State's Attorney that the
County exercise its legal remedies to ensure reasonable and timely progress
toward established goals and to prevent prime contractors from engaging in
any practices through which they qualify for protected participation on the
basis of misrepresentation of subcontracts or qualifications of subcontractors.

Insuring the County's conformance with Federal and State affirmative
action and equal employment opportunity laws and regulations.

Participating in all purchasing, bidding, and awards processes.
Participating in all precontract conferences.
Maintaining liaison with community groups.

Investigating affirmative action complaints, and reporting findings to
the Contract Compliance Committee for presentation to the County Board.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 11

j. Maintaining liaison with contractor, professional, and supplier groups
and associations.

k. Providing technical assistance to appropriate County departments,
offices, and divisions in drawing specifications to include opportunities for
minority- and women-owned businesses.

I. Generating publicity, through media appearances and public speaking
engagements, to provide information and clarification about the program to as
broad-based an audience as possible.

m. Recommending measures for revision and updating of the program as
the need is indicated.

(3) Various parts of this program require information on the County's business

and contracting activities be widely disseminated throughout the protected class
community.

(0) Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agent shall take whatever steps are necessary to
ensure that the purchasing staff views the implementation of this division as a priority. The
Purchasing Agent shall report quarterly to the Contract Compliance Administrator on the status
of the program and shall be responsible for the following duties:

(1)

(3)

(4)

A listing of minority vendors and suppliers shall be prepared by the

Purchasing Department and continually updated. This listing may use, but shall not
be limited to, the County's Protected Class Enterprise Directory; and updating of
this list should be fonlvarded to the Contract Compliance Administrator;

All new vendors on this list shall be forwarded bidders list forms and
instructions; these forms and instructions shall also be distributed to protected
class vendors at conferences and workshops;

All Protected Class Enterprise vendors who complete the bidders list forms

shall become part of the bidders list and shall be sent notice of upcoming bids
related to the Protected Class Enterprise's business at the same time that such
notice is sent to all prospective bidders;

All Protected Class Enterprise vendors who become part of the bidders list

shall have their records coded so that the vendor?s history kept by the Purchasing
Department will show a accounting of Protected Class Enterprise
purchases which can be reviewed by the Contract Compliance Administrator;

All staff in the Purchasing Department shall take part in periodic training,

with respect to making purchases from protected class companies; the Contract
Compliance Administrator shall be consulted by the Purchasing Agent with regard
to these training efforts and shall monitor both the training content and precedures;

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 12

(6) The Purchasing Agent, in conjunction with the Contract Compliance
Administrator, shall set up procurement "best effort" guidelines for the various
members of the procurement staff; these guidelines shall set the standards by
which Purchasing Department staff will seek to make purchases from protected
businesses; they shall also serve as a measure for the compliance review of the
department with respect to the protected class program; these "best effort"
guidelines shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

a. Assist in identifying protected class suppliers and/0r vendors located in
greater Cook County area, by product or service line, and assessing their
present capability and long-term business potential with the County.

b. Aggressively pursue protected class suppliers, seeking out qualified
and qualifiable protected class businesses in deliberate outreach efforts.

0. Review expected purchases on a continuous basis with the aim of
matching potential protected class vendors and projected needs.

d. Arrange meetings with management of vendors, and make facility
visits where appropriate.

9. Provide information to potential protected class suppliers regarding the
County's purchasing policies and requirements.

f. Provide information to protected class suppliers or vendors regarding
the County's competitive standards and prices.

9. Maintain accurate recordkeeping of all efforts and actual purchases
made from protected class companies.

Sec. 34-279?. Application of division.

This division shall be applied to all County contracts, including those contracts under
which there are residency qualifications, except to the extent it may be inconsistent with any
applicable State or Federal statute, regulation or program.

Sec. 34-280?. Program goals.

In ful?llment of its policy to promote equal opportunity in its procurement
process, the County establishes the goal that Protected Class Enterprises shall
participate in not less then 35 percent of the annual aggregate value of all contracts
awarded by the County. County procurement personnel will make their best efforts to
recruit and solicit bids and make purchases from qualified Protected Class
Enterprises.

(1) Not less than 25 percent of the annual total dollar amount of County
contracts and 30 percent of the annual total dollar amount of construction contracts
will be established as a goal to be awarded to Minority Business Enterprises.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(2)

(3)



SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 13

Not less than ten percent of the total dollar amount of County contracts, will
be established as a goal to be awarded to Women's Business Enterprises.

The above stated percentages relate to the total dollar amount of County
contracts during each ?scal year calculated by examining independently each type
of contract.

The County shall comply with all applicable Federal and State policies requiring

affirmative action to increase the employment opportunities of minority and female workers on
its construction projects.

(0) No goal shall be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any
person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.

Sec. 34-28421. Implementation.
Contract goals.

(1)

(3)

To achieve the goals stated in Section 34-2801?, the Purchasing Agent,

except as provided in Subsection of this section, shall include in the bid
specifications a requirement that each contractor commit that Minority Business
Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise participation in the contract will equal
at least 25 percent (30 percent in the case of construction contracts) and ten
percent, respectively, of the total dollar value of the contract.

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall evaluate the applicability of

the Minority Business Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise goals to a
specific contract. Where the Contract Compliance Administrator, in consultation
with the Purchasing Agent and the user Departments, determines that the
established goals are not appropriate for a speci?c contract because of its
particular requirements, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall set an
appropriate goal for the contract, based upon the availability of Protected Class
Enterprises which are capable of providing the goods and/or services required by
the particular contract, the past level of Protected Class Enterprise participation in
similar contracts, the specifications of the contract and any other criteria adopted
by the Contract Compliance Administrator.

The applicable goals for a specific contract shall be designated in the
contract specifications.

Contractor responsibility and requirements.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(1)

(3)

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 14

As a precondition to selection, each contractor shall submit with its bid a

completed and signed utilization plan which lists the names, addresses and contact
persons of businesses intended to be used as Protected Class Enterprises on the
contract, the type and scope of work or service each business will perform and the
dollar amount to be allocated to each Protected Class Enterprise. Such listing shall
not be duplicative two or more entities each listed as performing 100 percent
of the same work or service). Within three business days following submission of
bids, a bidder shall submit its letters of intent to Protected Class Enterprises listed
on its utilization plan, provided that no substitutions shall be permitted prior to bid
award. Each contractor?s utilization plan shall commit to Protected Class Enterprise
participation equal to or greater than each of the applicable Protected Class
Enterprise goals, unless the contractor requests a partial or total waiver of the
requirement that it file a utilization plan or achieve a particular goal for Protected
Class Enterprise participation by submitting with the ?ling of its bid a signed waiver
request form.

Notwithstanding its compliance with any other requirement of County

ordinances and contract specifications, no bidder or offeror shall be awarded an
eligible contract unless the Contract Compliance Administrator has approved its
utilization plan or granted a waiver on the contract. Such utilization plan shall be
designed to meet the applicable Minority Business Enterprise and Women?s
Business Enterprise goals set for such project and shall be incorporated into the
contract.

A contractor may achieve the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals by

its status as a Protected Class Enterprise or by joint venture with one or more
Protected Class Enterprises or by subcontracting a portion of the work to one or
more Protected Class Enterprises or by purchase of materials or services from one
or more Protected Class Enterprises or by the indirect participation of Protected
Class Enterprises in other aspects of the contractor's business such as through a
Mentor/Protege agreement as provided herein (in accordance with applicable
guidelines and provided that such Protected Class Enterprise indirect participation
may not be credited toward goal attainment on more than one contract subject to
this article) or by any combination of the above, subject to the following guidelines:

a. Joint ventures. Where a contractor engages in a joint venture to satisfy
its affirmative action commitment, the Contract Compliance Administrator
shall review the profits and losses, initial capital investment, actual
participation of the joint venture partners in the performance of the contract,
and other pertinent factors to determine the amount of credit to be granted for
the joint venture toward attainment of the applicable Minority Business
Enterprise and Women's Business Enterprise goals. The Contract
Compliance Administrator may review all records pertaining to joint venture
agreements before or after the award of a contract in order to assess
compliance with this article. A contractor shall receive credit towards
achievement of the applicable goals in proportion to the percentage of the
contract to be performed by the Protected Class Enterprise, provided that the
Contract Compliance Administrator may deny or limit Protected Class
Enterprise credit to a contractor where the Protected Class Enterprise joint
venture partner is found not to be performing a commercially useful function

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010

PAGE 15

or not to have duties, responsibilities, management control or risk with
respect to the joint venture commensurate with or in proportion to its joint
venture ownership.

b. Subcontracts. A contractor may count toward its Protected Class

Enterprise goals only expenditures to Protected Class Enterprises that
perform a commercially useful function in the performance of a contract for
work actually performed or materials supplied by the Protected Class
Enterprise. To determine whether a Protected Class Enterprise is performing
a commercially useful function, the Contract Compliance Administrator may
evaluate the amount of work subcontracted, industry practices, whether the
Protected Class Enterprise has the skill and experience to perform the work
for which it is being utilized and other relevant factors. Consistent with normal
industry practices, a Protected Class Enterprise subcontractor may enter into
second tier subcontracts. However, if a Protected Class Enterprise contractor
or subcontractor subcontracts a significantly greater portion of the work of the
contract than would be expected on the basis of normal industry practices,
the Minority Business Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise shall be
presumed not to be performing a commercially useful function.

0. Manufacturers and suppliers. Where a contractor utilizes one or more
suppliers to achieve its Protected Class Enterprise goals, such Protected
Class Enterprise supplier participation may be 100 percent credited toward
goal attainment where the Protected Class Enterprise supplier manufactures
the goods supplied or where such Protected Class Enterprise supplier owns
or operates a store, warehouse or other establishment (and related
distribution equipment) in which it maintains, consistent with industry
standards, an inventory of the materials or supplies required for performance
of the contract for sale in the normal course of business. The participation of
a Protected Class Enterprise supplier who acts as a broker who
performs no manufacturing or warehousing) shall be credited toward the
applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals at a rate equal to ten percent of
the payments to such Protected Class Enterprise broker.

d. Protected Class Enterprise prime contractors or joint venturers. A

Minority Business Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise contractor may
count its own participation toward the achievement of the applicable Minority
Business Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise goal, respectively, but
such a contractor will be required to meet all other applicable goals by joint
ventures, subcontracting or purchase of materials or services. Where a
contractor is a business owned and controlled by minority women 
or where the contractor utilizes a in a joint venture, as a
subcontractor or a supplier, the contractor may count the 
participation either toward the achievement of its Minority Business
Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise goal but not both.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT



(4)

(5)


PAGE16

e. Mentor/protege agreements. Where a contractor enters into a written
agreement ("mentor/protege" agreement) with a Protected Class Enterprise
to improve or develop certain aspects of the business of the Protected Class
Enterprise, such an agreement may be evaluated by the Contract
Compliance Administrator to assess appropriate credit toward the Protected
Class Enterprise goals of the contractor. The contractor and Protected Class
Enterprise shall remain separate and independent business entities under the
agreement. The mentor/protege agreement may provide for the contractor to
assist the Protected Class Enterprise in such areas as technical aspects of its
business, improving financial management, or providing on-the-job training.
No such credit shall be available unless:

1.

The Protected Class Enterprise provides a commercially useful
function in the performance of its agreement with the contractor;

The agreement is in writing and is submitted to the Contract
Compliance Administrator before the award of the contract; and

The agreement clearly de?nes the respective responsibilities of

the contractor and the Protected Class Enterprise and includes
specific, measurable goals to be attained by both parties through the
performance of the agreement. Upon recommendation by the
Contract Compliance Administrator, the Contract Compliance
Committee shall determine the amount of credit to be counted toward
the applicable goals of this division. The Contract Compliance
Administrator shall require the contractor to submit periodic reports
summarizing the progress of the execution of the mentor/protege
agreement, and shall notify both parties of any deficiencies in
performance. In order to qualify for credit, the mentor/protege
agreement must coincide in duration with, or not be for a shorter
length of time than, the contract between the contractor and the
County.

Where a contractor seeks relief from all or part of a contract's goals, the
contractor shall submit with its bid a proposal or request for a waiver.

A contractor's submission of a utilization plan which commits to a Protected

Class Enterprise participation goal equal to or greater than the applicable goals
shall not provide a basis for a higher bid, an increase in contract price or later
change order.

(0) Review of bid or offer.

(1) The Contract Compliance Administrator shall review each bid or offer to

determine if the contractor has included in its submission a completed and signed
utilization plan which meets the Protected Class Enterprise goals for the contract,
and approve or reject the plan.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 17

(2) The Purchasing Agent, at the direction of the Contract Compliance
Administrator, shall declare the bid or offer nonresponsive where the Contract
Compliance Administrator determines that a contractor:

a.

b.

Failed to submit with its bid a completed utilization plan;

Failed to identify in its plan suf?cient Minority Business Enterprises
and/or Women's Business Enterprises by name, scope of work and dollar
value of work to meet the applicable goals for the contract; or

Failed to submit with its bid a request for a total or partial waiver of
the applicable goals.

(3) Where a partial or total request for waiver of a goal is made, the Contract
Compliance Administrator shall determine whether a bidder or offeror has made
good faith efforts to meet the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals and
whether a total or partial waiver of a goal should be granted. Good faith efforts, as
defined herein, shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

a.

Attend any prebid conference conducted by the County to acquaint
contractors with Protected Class Enterprises available to provide relevant
goods and services and to inform Protected Class Enterprise's of subcontract
opportunities on the contract;

Review lists of available Protected Class Enterprises maintained by the
County and other State and local governments and agencies prior to the bid
opening to identify qualified Protected Class Enterprises for solicitation for
bids;

Advertise, not less than 15 calendar days before the bid opening date,

in one or more daily newspapers and/or trade publications, for bids by
Protected Class Enterprises for subcontracts or the supply of goods and
services on the contract;

Make timely written solicitations of available Protected Class

Enterprises identified on the County's list as providing relevant services for
bids for subcontracts or the supply of goods and services; and provide
Protected Class Enterprises with a convenient and timely opportunity to
review and obtain relevant plans, specifications or terms and conditions of the
contract to enable such Protected Class Enterprises to prepare an informed
response to a contractor solicitation;

Divide total contract requirements into small tasks or quantities and

adjust performance bond and insurance requirements or otherwise assist
Protected Class Enterprises in obtaining the required bonding, insurance or
financing, where economically feasible, to encourage participation of
Protected Class Enterprises;

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(4)

(5)

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 18

f. Follow up initial solicitation of Protected Class Enterprises by
contacting Protected Class Enterprises to determine if the enterprises are
interested in making bids;

9. Negotiate in good faith with Protected Class Enterprises prior to the
bid opening and do not reject as unsatisfactory any bids submitted by
Protected Class Enterprises without justifiable reason;

h. Establish delivery schedules, where the requirements of the work
permit, which will encourage participation by Protected Class Enterprises;

i. Establish joint ventures with Protected Class Enterprises;

j. Use the services and assistance of the Contract Compliance
Administrator's staff, the Small Business Administration, the Office of Minority
Business Enterprises of the U.S. Department of Commerce and where the
contractor seeks a waiver, make timely notice of the need for Protected Class
Enterprise subcontractors to an appropriate community and minority and
women?s business organization identified as an assist agency with respect to
this article.

A contractor seeking a total or partial waiver shall, in accordance with

guidelines issued by the Contract Compliance Administrator, be required to submit
evidence of its good faith efforts to achieve the applicable Protected Class
Enterprise goals and in support of its reasons for seeking a waiver. Performance of
all the actions set out in Subsection of this section by the contractor shall
create a rebuttable assumption that the contractor has made good faith efforts to
meet the applicable Protected Class Enterprise goals. The determination of the
adequacy of a contractor's good faith efforts will be evaluated on the basis of the
contractor's actions as of the date of the bid opening.

The Contract Compliance Administrator may grant the waiver request of a
contractor based upon the following criteria:

a. Suf?cient qualified Protected Class Enterprises capable of providing
the goods or services required by the contract are unavailable despite the
good faith efforts of the contractor;

b. The specifications of and the reasonable and necessary requirements
for performing the contract make it impossible or economically infeasible to
divide the contract into sufficiently small tasks er quantities to enable the
contractor to utilize Protected Class Enterprises in accordance with the
applicable utilization goals;

The price quoted by any potential Protected Class Enterprise source of
goods or services is more than ten percent above competitive levels; and

d. Any other factor determined to be relevant by the Contract
Compliance Administrator.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(5)

(7)

(8)

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 19

Where a partial waiver is granted, the Contract Compliance Administrator
shall specify the amount of the applicable goal.

Where the Contract Compliance Administrator determines that a contractor

has not made a good faith effort to meet the applicable goals and/or comply with
the provisions herein, including, but not limited to, failing to timely submit the
required letters of intent or other information request and/or has not otherwise met
the requirements for a total or partial waiver, the Purchasing Agent may declare the
contractor nonresponsive and reject the bid and reject any waiver request which
may have been filed.

Where the Contract Compliance Administrator determines that the

utilization plan submitted by a contractor is false or fraudulent, the Purchasing
Agent shall reject the bid or, if such a determination is made after the bid award,
the contract may be forfeited and canceled.

Subcontract requirements. Within 30 days after demand, the prime contractor shall
furnish fully executed copies of all protected class subagreements and these shall be reviewed
by the Contract Compliance Administrator and submitted to the Contract Compliance
Committee of the County Board. Subsequently, the prime contractor shall obtain and submit a
copy of all Minority Business Enterprise or Women's Business Enterprise related subtier
contracts on demand.

Review of contract performance.

(1)

(2)

(3)

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall review the contractor's efforts

during the performance of the contract to achieve its Protected Class Enterprise
commitments as stated in its utilization plan. If the contractor meets or exceeds its
stated goals, it shall be presumed to be in compliance. Where the Contract
Compliance Administrator finds that the contractor has failed to achieve its stated
goals or otherwise has failed to comply with the requirements of the division,
including failure to provide any documentation required by the Contract
Compliance Administrator, has not satisfactorily demonstrated good faith efforts,
and/or has deviated without authorization from the compliance related portions of
the contract as originally approved, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall
report findings to the Contract Compliance Committee.

The Contract Compliance Administrator may establish such requirements

for periodic contractor reporting on the fulfillment of its goals and its utilization of
Protected Class Enterprises as the Contract Compliance Administrator determines
appropriate and necessary for effective enforcement of this division. A contractor
also shall be required to provide the Contract Compliance Administrator any
additional requested compliance documentation within 14 days of such request.

If the Contract Compliance Committee determines that the contractor has

failed to comply with its contractual commitments or any portion of this division, the
Contract Compliance Committee will notify the contractor of such noncompliance
and may take any of the following actions:

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

a.

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 20

instruct the Comptroller to withhold 50 percent of the current progress
payment due the prime contractor.

Withhold up to 100 percent of further progress payments until the
contractor demonstrates that it is in compliance with the requirements of this
division.

Debar the contractor from future bids or offers until the contractor
demonstrates that it is in compliance with the requirements of this division.

Protected Class Enterprise bid and target market programs. To address more
specifically the barriers to Protected Class Enterprise participation as prime contractors in
County work, the Contract Compliance Administrator may direct the Purchasing Agent to
institute the following special Protected Class Enterprise bidding provisions, following
determination of the appropriateness of such provisions.

(1) In connection with the award of a contract subject to competitive bidding on
which a Protected Class Enterprise has bid and where the Protected Class
Enterprise meets the following criteria:

a.

b.

it is bidding on the item in question for the first time; and

It never has successfully bid on a Cook County purchasing contract,

the Contract Compliance Administrator may, at the opening of the bids on the
item, compare the Protected Class Enterprise bid with the lowest bid. and, if
the Protected Class Enterprise's bid is closely competitive as defined by
guidelines to be established by the Contract Compliance Administrator with
that of lowest actual bids, direct the Purchasing Agent to declare the
Protected Class Enterprise the successful bidder. A Protected Class
Enterprise may use this procedure only once to become the successful
bidder on any particular item. Thereafter, the Protected Class Enterprise must
be totally competitive in terms of price to be the successful bidder.

(2) The Contract Compliance Administrator shall develop and coordinate a
target market program as follows:

a.

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall review the availability

of Protected Class Enterprises providing various goods and services and
shall identify for inclusion in a potential program for bidding among Protected
Class Enterprise firms certain commodity areas with sufficient Protected
Class Enterprise availability to ensure that the County receives a competitive
price. The Contract Compliance Administrator shall report his/her findings
and recommendations to the Contract Compliance Committee;

b. Upon a determination by the Contract Compliance Committee that such

a program is advisable for any particular commodity procurement, the
Contract Compliance Administrator will institute the following procedures:

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 21

1. The Contract Compliance Administrator will notify the
Purchasing Agent of identification of those commodity codes
appropriate for a target market program;

2. To the extent practicable, the Purchasing Agent, with the aid of
the Contract Compliance Administrator, shall divide procurement in
the designated commodity areas into economically feasible sizes to
facilitate bids or offers from Protected Class Enterprises and shall
designate contracts to be offered under the target market program;

3. The Purchasing Agent shall offer Protected Class Enterprises
the opportunity to bid on such contracts in a limited competition;

4. All standard County rules for bidding will then become
effective and, provided that at least three Protected Class Enterprises
bid or make an offer on the contract, the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder among the Protected Class Enterprise firms will
receive the contract;

5. In the event less than three Protected Class Enterprises bid or
make an offer on the contract or if there is no responsive bid or offer
received from a responsible Protected Class Enterprise, the
Purchasing Agent shall rebid the contract not subject to the target
market program.

0. Participation in the target market program shall be limited to Minority
Business Enterprises, Women's Business Enterprises and joint ventures
consisting exclusively of Minority Business Enterprises, Women's Business
Enterprises or both. The Protected Class Enterprise contractor on a target
market contract may subcontract up to 50 percent of the dollar value of the
target market contract to subcontractors who are not Minority Business
Enterprises or Women's Business Enterprises.

(9) Fifty percent Protected Class Enterprises required for informal bid solicitations. All
buyers shall solicit 50 percent PCEs in their informal bid solicitations for materials under
$10,000.00, which are not bid by formal advertising.

Buyers to use Protected Class Enterprises in requisitions. All buyers will make every
effort to use Protected Class Enterprises whenever possible in their requisitions for materials
under $10,000.00, which are not bid.

Division of large contracts to facilitate offers from Protected Class Enterprises. With
respect to large contracts for which subcontracting possibilities are impracticable, all buyers will,
to the extent practicable, divide such contracts into economically feasible sizes to facilitate bids
or offers from Protected Class Enterprises.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

PAGE22

Technical assistance. The contractor is bound by all the requirements, terms, and
conditions of this article. Subsequent to the acceptance of an awarded contract, there will be no
waiver of the requirements, terms and conditions. The County Board, through its Contract
Compliance Committee and the Contract Compliance Administrator, will make technical
assistance in meeting the terms and conditions of this article available to all interested bidders.

Finance; measures for reduction of cash flow problems of protected class
contractors.

(1) As needed, the Contract Compliance Administrator shall assist Protected
Class Enterprises with training seminars in the technical aspects of preparing a bid
for a County contract.

(2) All prime contractors shall be urged to follow the County's example by
making prompt and timely payments to Protected Class Enterprise subcontractors
working on Cook County projects. The timeliness of such payments shall be
monitored by the Contract Compliance Administrator on a regular basis, and an
investigation shall be made of every complaint or charge of excessive delay in
payment. Reports of these investigations shall be made to the Contract
Compliance Committee and to the County Comptroller.

(3) If at any time during the progress of the work, the contractor shall fail or

neglect to pay a Protected Class Enterprise subcontractor for any labor performed,
furnished, or tools, machinery, appliances, fuels, provisions or supplies of any sort
or kind used or consumed upon, in or on account of the work for ten days after
payment for same shall become due, then the County shall have the power and
authority to pay such indebtedness, and the amount so paid shall be retained out
of the money due or to become due the contractor. The County Comptroller may
refuse to make the payment hereinafter specified to the extent of such
indebtedness, until satisfactory evidence in writing has been furnished that the
indebtedness has been discharged. In any such case, the Purchasing Agent is
hereby authorized and empowered by the contractor to ascertain the amount due
or owing from the contractor to any laborer or laborers, or to any person or
persons, or corporation, for labor, equipment, material, tools, machinery,
appliances, provisions, fuels, or supplies of any sort or kind consumed upon, in or
on account of the work covered by this contract in such manner and upon such
proofs as may be deemed sufficient.

(4) The County Board shall encourage major prime contractors to make
available to Protected Class Enterprise subcontractors working on their projects
their sources of financial assistance.

(I) Contract award considerations. Where the lowest responsive contractor submits a
bid/offer which exceeds by ten percent or more the bid/offer of the lowest PCE nonresponsive
contractor nonresponsive" for purposes of this subsection means nonresponsive
pursuant to Subsection of this section, but otherwise responsive to the contract
specifications], the County shall have the right to reject all bids/offers and rebid or request
further offers.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 23

Sec. Professionals and consulting services and sole source agreements.

All Department heads who may employ the professional services of accountants,
attorneys, physicians, dentists, statisticians, data engineers, and other such personnel
or who require goods or services procured through sole source agreements shall implement this
article and compliance programs in a "best effort" manner. In lieu of the requirements set forth in
Section all providers of such professional services or goods or services are to be
notified that:

(1) In the case of term contracts (annually or for more than six months), they are
to maximize the use of Protected Class Enterprises or individuals as
subconsultants or subcontractors.

(2) In the case of contracts instituted on an as-needed basis or lasting less than
six months, they are to submit to the County affirmative action plans and goals and
maximize the number of women and minority professionals in their firm who
participate in various County projects.

(3) In both of the above cases the internal affirmative action plans and goals of
the providers shall be submitted to the Contract Compliance Administrator and
shall be reviewed against the provider's actual affirmative action achievements and
shall become a part of the provider's protected class compliance review; this twice
yearly review by the Contract Compliance Administrator shall become a factor in
the County's continued use of the services of providers.

(4) The County sets a "best efforts? goal of 35 percent Protected Class
Enterprise participation for the total professional services and consulting services
utilized by the County. The County must be able to call upon those professionals
whose particular training and experience most closely fit our needs. The County
shall endeavor to increase utilization of protected class firms. Because use of such
services is not programmed or predictable, a "best effort" standard shall be used
for attainment of the goal amounts.

Sec. 34-28379. Other Federal and State regulations.

Nothing in this division shall be interpreted to diminish or supplant equal employment
opportunity requirements contained in Federal or State grant funded contracts.

Sec. 34-2849. Preference to residents of County.

In addition to the goals established pursuant to Section 34-2803, there is established 
as a goal that on any contract approved by the County Board there will be utilization of at least
50 percent bona fide County residents and 30 percent minorities in each trade for each project
awarded by the County and in the aggregated workforce in each project five percent will be
females. 

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 24

Sec. 34-2851. Repestiictg?aioreI?rein'ewl Preference to Service-Disabled Veteran Businesses.

 



 
 
 

 
 

 

(3) De?nitions. For the purposes of this section:

The term service-disabieci means, with resoect to disabilitv. that the disability was
incurred or aqqravated in the line of duty in the active service in the United States Armed
Forces;

The term service?disabled veteran means a veteran who served in the active militarv.
naval, or air service. and who was discharqed or released there from under conditions other
than dishonorable, with a disabilitv that is service-connected, such that the disabilitv was
incurred or aqqravated in the line of dutv in the active militarv. navai, or air service;

The term service-disabled veteran business means a small business concern owned
and controlled by service-disabled veterans such that:

1 not less than 51 ercent of which is owned one or more service-disabled
veteransI and

(2) the manaoement and dailv business operations of which are controlled bv one
or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a veteran with permanent and
severe disability, the spouse or permanent careqiver of such veteran.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL 8: VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 25

The term small business concern shall be deemed to be one which is independently
owned and operated and which is not dominant in its field of operation.

(in) 
this?Cede. In addition to the qoals established pursuant to Section 34-23076, there is
established as a qoal that on em; contract approved bv the Countv Board there will be utilization
of at least 3 percent service-disabled veteran businesses of the annual aqoreqate value of all
contracts awarded bv the Countv.

(9) Countv procurement personnel will make their best efforts to recruit and solicit bids
and make purchases from qualified service-disabled veteran businesses.

The above stated percentaqe relates to the total dollar amount of County contracts
during each fiscal veer calculated bv examininq independently each tvpe of contract.

is) The above stated qoal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to
discriminate aqainst any person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color. national
oriqin. reliqion or sex. 

The Contract Compliance Administrator shall have the responsibility to
implement and enforce said goal in the same manner in which t_he office enforces the
MBE and WBE proqrams under Section 34-2f74 through Section 34-277 of this division.

(9) The President of t_he Cook County Board of Commissioners shall establish by
executive ogler force. which shall work in coniunction with the Office of the
Purchasinq Agent and the Office of Contract Compliance and be comprised of
remasentatives from the Cook County Veterans Assistance Commission. Illinois
Department of Veterans? Affairs and the Cook County Board; in order to consulL with
veterans? service orqanizations and the l_3u_siness community, including qualified
disabled veterans? businesses to ensure participation in the County procurement
process and that the above stated goal is met.

Sec. 34-182. Reportinq and review.

The County Board directs the Contract Compliance Administrator to report to the Countv
Board on an annual basis with respect to the followinq:

The level of Protected Class Enterprise participation achieved in each vear
in County contracts subiect to this division;

The then current estimated availabilitv of Protected Class Enterprises to
perform County contracts;

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

(3)



(5)


SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 26

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the article in ensuring full and

equitable participation by Protected Ciess Enterprises in County contracts and in
mitigating the competitive disadvantage suffered by Minority Business Enterprises
and Women's Business Enterprises due to the present effects of discrimination in
the local economy and award public contracts;

An assessment of the continuinaneed for utilization goals for specific types
of goods and services used in County contracts;

identification of any enforcement problems; and

Any recommendations with respect to improvino the County's effectiveness

in remedyino the effects of discrimination against Minority Business Enterprises
and Women's Business Enterprises and/or discontinuing or modifying any
af?rmative action requirements in those cases where Minority Business Enterprises
and Women's Business Enterprises no lonqer are disadvantaged by the effects of
discrimination in theimarticipation in County contracts.

Secs. 34-283?34-285. Reserved.

Effective date: This amended ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

308452

ESTABLISHING AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL TASK FORCE (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean Collins,
County Commissioner. Co-sponsored by William M. Beavers, Jerry Butler. Forrest
Claypool, John P. Daley. Bridoet GBIHBL Eiizabeth ?Liz" Doodv German. Gregg
Goslin. Joseph Mario Moreno. Joan Patricia Murphv. Edwin Reyes, Timothy
Schneider. Peter N. Silvestri. Deborah Sims. Robert B. Steele and Larry Suffredin.
County Commissioners.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to
Article VII Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, our existing Emergency Management office has been doing a superb
job in assisting the 2008 and 2010 flood victims with the limited resources that
they have to work with. It is paramount that Cook County establish a collaborative
funding source to minimize the impact of future flooding; and

WHEREAS, it is evident that the antiquated infrastructure system in most of
suburban Cook County lacks the capacity to deal with water flow when there is
heavy rain fall in a short period of time as was the case in the 2008 and 2010
?ood;and

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT

SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 27

WHEREAS, the Federal government, the State, the County and local
municipalities have separate roles in assisting with emergency management and
each of these entities have a specific role and monies to address certain
emergencies. A collaborative effort among these agencies will allow Cook County
to better assist suburban municipalities in water drainage management.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners establish an Intergovernmental Task Force consisting of
department heads from the following agencies; Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District, Cook County Department of Highways, Bureau of Capital, Planning and
Facilities Management, Homeland Security Emergency Management, the Cook
County Bureau of Finance, and the Cook County Bureau of Community
Development, to review our existing emergency management systems to seek
ways to improve emergency assistance and minimize the impact of flooding in
suburban Cook County.

*Referred to the Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans Relations
Committee on 09-01-10.

Commissioner Collins, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri, moved the approval of
Communication No. 308452. The motion carried.

308453

IN SUPPORT OF ADDITIONAL FEDERAL FUNDING FOR METROPOLITAN
WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT RESERVOIR PROJECTS (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Peter N.
Silvestri, John P. Daley, Larry Suffredin, Earlean Collins and Elizabeth ?Liz? Doody
Gorman, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

IN SUPPORT OF ADDITIONAL FEDERAL FUNDING FOR METROPOLITAN
WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT RESERVOIR PROJECTS

WHEREAS, Cook County has increasingly experienced flooding issues due to
development and inadequate flood retention areas; and

WHEREAS, these increasing flooding issues have caused tremendous damage to
property and person; and

WHEREAS, response and reaction to the flooding has been admirable from all
levels of government; and

WHEREAS, all governments, working together, must take even greater measures
to prevent such frequent flooding with the assistance of federal and state funding.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the federal government must
provide additional and greater funding to complete water reservoir retention
projects, through the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District; and

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 28

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Governor and state legislature petition and
request the federal government to transfer remaining 2008 FEMA funds for 2010
program distribution; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the state government also assist in any
funding to complete these necessary reservoir projects and any other Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District flood relief projects.

*Referred to the Legislation, Intergovernmental Veterans Relations
Committee on 09-01-10.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to approve
Communication No. 308453.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to accept the
Substitute Resolution for Communication No. 308453. The motion carried.

Vice Chairman Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, moved to aprove the
Substitute Resolution. The motion carried.

SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION FOR COMMUNICATION NUMBER 308453
Sponsored by:

THE HONORABLE PETER N. SILVESTRI AND LARRY SUFFREDIN,
COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

IN SUPPORT OF THE METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
OF GREATER AND THORNTON RESERVOIR PROJECT

WHEREAS, the McCook and Thornton Reservoir projects are a key component of the Army
Corps of Engineers? Chicago Underflow Plan (CUP), the flood control element of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago?s Tunnel and Reservoir Plan
and

WHEREAS, TARP is the long-term comprehensive flood pollution control solution for Cook
County and the surrounding communities, and includes a series of underground tunnels and
storage reservoirs designed to address combined sewer overflow discharges; and

WHEREAS, TARP already has provided dramatic water quality improvements including the
protection of Lake Michigan, the source of our drinking water and vital pollution control to over
3.5 million Illinois residents; and

WHEREAS, TARP has been enormously effective In achieving its goal as evidenced by the
elimination of 85% of the combined sewage pollution in the 325 square mile area and providing
over $469 million in flood damage prevention to date; and

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
PAGE 29

WHEREAS, the McCook Reservoir is currently under construction by the US Army Corps of
Engineers and upon completion will have a total capacity of 10 billion gallons of flood
water/combined sewer overflow storage and will provide more than $90 million per year in
benefits to 37 communities including the protection of over 1,240,000 structures; and

WHEREAS, the Thornton Reservoir is currently under advanced construction by the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago for the US. Army Corps of
Engineers and upon completion will have a total capacity of 7.9 billion gallons of flood
water/combined sewer overflow storage and will provide more than $40 million per year in
benefits to 15 communities including the protection of over 182,000 structures;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
urges the Congress and the US. Army Corps of Engineers to provide the necessary funding,
$40 million in fiscal year 2011, to complete the McCook and Thornton Reservoir project as well
as continuing construction and reimbursement to the District to complete the Project on
schedule; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the

Assistant Secretary of the Army Jo Ellen Darcy, members of the Illinois Congressional
delegation, and may it also be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable Body.

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 
1. Jerry Eisner Executive Director, Illinois State Crime Commissioner

Commissioner Schneider moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Goslin. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
SEPTEMBER 13, 2010

PAGE 30
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTER NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 308428 Approve
Communication Number 308429 Substitute Approved as Amended
Communication Number 308452 Approve
Communication Number 308453 Substitute Approved

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation,
Intergovernmental Veterans
Relations

. 
Nd Wm;

Larry Suffredin, Chairnha'n

 

Attest:
1

"31 

M?tthew B. DeLeon, SeE?rEIary

 

An audio recording of this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

