Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Kathleen
Therese Meany, Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore,
Commissioner Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, Commissioner Kari K. Steele, Commissioner
Patrick Daley Thompson, Acting President Barbara J. McGowan
Tuesday, December 4, 2012

2:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
Acting President Barbara J. McGowan presiding, called the meeting to order at
2:05 p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Barbara J. McGowan; Kathleen Therese
Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos; Kari K.
Steele; and Patrick Daley Thompson

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

12-1573

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
Of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday ,
December 4, 2012 at 2:00 PM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
Installation of Commissioners will occur at the Annual Meeting

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Debra Shore, seconded by Kathleen Therese Meany,
that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays
2

12-1642

President's Annual Message 2012
Attachments:

President's Annual Message 2012

A motion was made by Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, seconded by Cynthia M.
Santos, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Annual Meeting

Meeting Minutes

December 4, 2012

Open Discussion
Clem Balanoff, Deputy Clerk of Cook County, presented the Certificates of Election to
re-elected Commissioner Debra Shore, elected Commissioner Kari K. Steele, and
elected Commissioner Patrick Daley Thompson.
Following the presentation, the Honorable Mary Jane Theis, Justice, Illinois Supreme
Court, administered the Oath of Office to re-elected Commissioner Debra Shore, the
Honorable Judge John O. Steele, Illinois Appellate Court First District, Third Division,
administered the Oath of Office to elected Commissioner Kari K. Steele, and the
Honorable Maura Slattery Boyle, Circuit Court Judge of Cook County, administered
the Oath of Office to elected Commissioner Patrick Daley Thompson.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Kathleen Therese
Meany, that the Annual Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays
Barbara J. McGowan adjourned the meeting at 3:05 p.m.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this
December 4, 2012, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Barbara J. McGowan
Acting President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
December 4, 2012

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 