 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Law Enforcement Committee

Tuesday, May 21, 2019 9:50 AM River Trail Nature Center
3120 Milwaukee
IL

River Trail Nature Center-3120 Milwaukee Ave, IL

ATTENDANCE

Present: Silvestri. Bl'itton. Johnson. Miller. Morrison and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Moore 

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

There were no public speakers

19-0233

 

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President). Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TITLE 3 - POLICE REGULATION. CHAPTER 1 - POLICE FORCE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners. that Title
3? Police Regulations. Chapter I- Police Force of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of

Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:
3-1-1: - POLICE FORCE ESTABLISH ED: COMPOSITION.

There is hereby established a police force to be known as a Police Force. The Police Force of the

District shall consist 9% of police members who shall constitute the regular Police Force of the District.

Law Enforcement Committee Committee Report - Draft May 21, 2019

 

 

1 ill] 

3-1-2: - RULES AND REGULATIONS.

The entire force for police duty, either emergency or general, shall be under the command of the General
Superintendent?Chief of Police who shall make such rules and regulations for the government and
discipline of the police as he may consider necessary and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of the
rules and regulations established by the District Board of Commissioners for the government and
regulation of the of?cers and employees of the District and of such ordinances as may be from time to

time passed by the Board of Commissioners.
3-1-3: - OATH OF OFFICE.

All members of the regular Police Force respective?of?ees,

take and subscribe to_ the following oath or af?rmation before the Clerk of the County Court of Cook

County or the District?s Chief of Police or such Chief of Police's designee:

do solemnly swear (or af?rm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the
duties of the of?ce (insert here name of of?ce, etc., etc.,) according to the best of my ability."

The General?Supepmtendent?Chief of Police shall cause a permanent record to be kept of said oath of
of?ce. The appointment of any person to any of?ce in the regular Police Force, with the exception of
Emergency Police, shall not be deemed complete until?the?feregeing 
that person has been awarded. within six months of his or her initial full-time employment, a certi?cate
attesting to his or her successful completion of the Minimum Standards Basic Law Enforcement Training
Course as prescribed by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board or has
been awarded a certi?cate attesting to his or her satisfactory completion of a training program of similar
content and number of hours and which course has been found acceptable by or by reason of
extensive prior law enforcement or county corrections experience the basic training requirement is

determined by ILETSB to be illogical and unreasonable.

State Law reference? S.H.A. 50 ILCS 7?05/1 et seq.

Page 2 of5

Law Enforcement Committee Committee Report - Draft May 21, 2019

 

3-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES.



B. mast?Powers: All members of the Police Force, as speci?ed in Section 3-1-1 hereof, shall have

 

exercise police powers over the territory within the District for the preservation of the public peace. and
the observance and enforcement of the ordinances and laws, such as are conferred upon and exercised
by the police of organized cities and villages: but such police force. when acting within the limits of any
city or village, but outside the territory owned. leased. or licensed by the District and property over which
the District has easement rights. shall act in aid of the regular police force of such city or village and shall

then be subiect to the direction of its chief of police, city or village marshals. or other head thereof.

C. Arrests: Every person under arrest shall be treated kindly and humanely by the police of?cer making

the arrest, and by those police who are in charge of such person.

State Law reference- S.H.A. 70 810/15.

3-1-5: - RETURN OF PARAPHERNALIA.

 

Page 3 of5

Law uforcement Committee Committee Report - Draft May 2! 2019

 

 

- RESISTING, POLICE.

3-1-91: - POLICY ON USE OF FORCE-CHOKE HOLDS PROHIBITED.



Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption (or give speci?c
date)

A motion was made by Commissioner Britton, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, to
recommend for approval 19-0233. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Silvestri, Britton, Johnson, Miller, Morrison and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Moore (1)



A motion was made by Commissioner Britton, seconded by Commissioner Johnson, to adjourn.
The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Silvestri, Britton, Johnson, Miller, Morrison and Tobolski (6)

Absent: Moore 

Page 4 of5

Law Enforcement Commi?ee Committee Report - Dra? May 21, 2019

 

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman Secretary

 

 

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 5 of 

