MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
September 9, 2003
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on September 9, 2003 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Elzie Higginbottom and Members
Gary Peterlin and Violet Clark. Member William Dugan was present telephonically.
Chairman Higginbottom convened the September 9, 2003 Regular Meeting at 9:36 A.M. in
the 3rd floor Board Conference Room. Member Peterlin moved that pursuant to Section
2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and Section 6(d) of
the Riverboat Gambling Act, the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the items
listed under Closed Session on today’s (September 9, 2003) agenda and relating to the
following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees;
Personnel matters; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous consent
and retired to closed session.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:05 P.M.
Minutes
Member Clark moved that the Board approve the following closed session minutes of its
Regular Meeting of July 18, 2003, Special Meeting of July 24, 2003 and Regular
Meeting of August 12, 2003. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice.
Chairman’s Report
Chairman Higginbottom announced that he and Interim Administrator Tamayo testified
before the Gaming Committee last week regarding casino gaming in Illinois. Chairman
Higginbottom stated that there was much said regarding the level of confidence that the
licensees have in regards to the competition that the licensees face from the Indiana and

 Missouri. Chairman Higginbottom stressed to the licensees that the Board is committed to
helping all of the licensees in sharpening the competitive edge.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that JCAR took action today regarding the Board’s proposed
ticket vouchering rules, and that Staff would file necessary paper work with the Secretary of
State’s Office by the end of this week. Chairman Higginbottom stated the ticket vouchering
technology would help the licensees be more competitive, and that licensees would be able to
take advantage of the new technology once the Staff approves the necessary internal controls
and the gaming laboratories have approved and installed the systems.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that in regards to Emerald Casino, the Board and Staff are
continuing to negotiate with the licensee to try to reach a resolution of the 10th license in
order to get the license up and running as soon as possible. Chairman Higginbottom
announced that the hearing that was scheduled to begin on September 4, 2003 has been
postponed until September 22, 2003 at the request of Emerald. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that the Board is hopeful that they could bring this issue to a positive resolution that
would benefit the citizens of the State of Illinois.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that every month the Board receives requests from members
of the public to address the Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that sometimes the
requests are to discuss general issues and sometimes the requests are to discuss more specific
issues. Chairman Higginbottom stated that on occasions the Board receives requests from the
public to speak on issues that the Board has no jurisdiction over. Chairman Higginbottom
stated that sometimes there are issues that the general public has that the Board really has no
control over. Chairman Higginbottom stated that while the Board would like to be
cooperative with the public, it is important that the Board utilize its time as effectively as
possible. Chairman Higginbottom stated that the Board would like to make sure that the
public is heard; however, the Board reserves its rights to determine who will publicly address
the Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that he hopes that no one is offended if from time
to time they are denied to address the Board. Chairman Higginbottom stated that if a
member of the public is denied to address the Board, at the appropriate time the Board would
consider their issues and give them ample opportunity to speak.
Administrator’s Report
Interim Administrator Tamayo announced that under the Open Meetings Act and revisions to
State law, Staff would be required to tape Closed sessions starting in January, 2004.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that Staff is working with the Illinois Casino Gaming
Association to establish the next General Manager’s meeting. Interim Administrator Tamayo
stated that one of the key topics intended for discussion is the implementation of the ticket
vouchering technology.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that if anyone has any questions, issues, or suggestions
that they would like to bring to the Board, they should submit their information so that it may
2

 be included in the Board mailing. Staff typically does the Board mailing approximately one
week before the Board meeting. Interim Administrator Tamayo suggested that anyone who
has material for the Board mailing should submit it in a timely manner so that the material
would be included.
Board Policy Items
TICKET VOUCHERING TECHNOLOGY RULES – ADOPTION UPON JCAR
APPROVAL – Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that JCAR presented no objections;
therefore, Staff is seeking the Board’s approval to adopt the rules. Interim Administrator
Tamayo stated that during the past few weeks, Staff has been able to agree to certain
language changes with JCAR. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that none of the
language changes are substantive but rather more in the nature of punctuation. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that the final submission should be ready for filing with the
Secretary of State by this Friday (September 12, 2003). Interim Administrator Tamayo stated
that as soon as the final submission is filed, it would become law and a copy would go out to
everyone.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and publishing of the
following Rules: 3000.100, 3000.140, 3000.165, 3000.200, 3000.210, 3000.270, 3000.320,
3000.600, 3000.635, 3000.636, 3000.640, 3000.655, 3000.660, 3000.665, 3000.666,
3000.670, 3000.800, 3000.1010, 3000.1050, 3000.1060 as revised.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and
publishing of the following new Rules: 3000.272, 3000.285, 3000.661, 3000.667,
3000.671. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
FY’2004 TAX RULES – SECOND NOTICE FILING AND ADOPTION UPON JCAR
APPROVAL – Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that on June 30th Staff filed emergency
rule-making to implement the tax changes that were passed by the new legislation. Interim
Administrator Tamayo stated that the 45-day public comment period has expired and no
public comments were received during that time frame. Interim Administrator Tamayo
stated that Staff is seeking the Board’s approval to file Second Notice with JCAR and to be
given the authority upon JCAR’s approval to immediately file for adoption with the
Secretary of State’s Office.
Member Peterlin moved that the Board authorize staff to submit proposed Rule
3000.1071 as revised for Second Notice Filing with the Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board authorize the final adoption and
publishing of the above-referenced rule, provided no material changes are made to this
rule during the Second Notice process. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
3

 Owner Licensee Items
ALTON BELLE CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Rich Laudon,
General Manager, was present on behalf of Alton Belle Casino to provide the Board with the
status of Alton’s operational changes. Mr. Laudon reported that Alton just begun its
operating hours on September 1, 2003 and therefore has only experienced seven operating
days with the new hours, which would make it difficult at this time to identify any trends or
conclusions.
Mr. Laudon noted that for the past 12 months, Alton Belle Casino has been experiencing
some heightened competitive pressures in the St. Louis Market. Mr. Laudon stated the
increase in competition along with the flooding of the Mississippi, and highway construction,
have been major obstacles that have dramatically effective some of the revenues. Mr.
Laudon stated that these circumstances, along with the 2002 tax increase has caused
management at Alton Belle Casino to reduce unnecessary expenses and to market and
promote the business effectively. Mr. Laudon stated that Alton Belle Casino believes that its
customers would adopt the new hours of 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 A.M and cause a successful
compression of gaming hours in the most profitable period.
Mr. Laudon stated that Alton Belle Casino was anticipating the layoff of 30 to 50 employees;
however, through attrition and reassignment of job positions, the layoff only amounted to 18
employees.
Member Clark asked what Alton Belle Casino has been doing to counteract its competition.
Mr. Laudon stated that Alton Belle is always trying to out-market its competitors with the
different enhancements.
Member Peterlin asked if Alton Belle has done anything to try to help the displaced workers.
Mr. Laudon stated that Alton Belle had a session a week ago where they coached employees
with resume building and discussed new positions within the company.
EMPRESS CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Jeff Pfeiffer, Vice
President and General Manager, was present to provide the Board with an update on Empress
Casino’s operational changes. Mr. Pfeiffer stated that Empress has submitted a detailed
report to the Board and Staff inclusive of confidential information regarding financial
performance.
Mr. Pfeiffer stated that Empress believes that the actions taken are reasonable and
appropriate, and that the coming months would tell as Empress is able to do a more thorough
analysis.
4

 Mr. Pfeiffer provided the Board with a brief overview of the changes that has taken place
since July, which included changes in food and beverage operations, reduction of six table
game positions, charging admission, and decreased hours of operation. Mr. Pfieffer stated
that throughout the month of August, the six table game positions were replaced with 33 slot
positions.
Mr. Pfeiffer stated that as a result of the changes, 120 employees were laid off. Mr. Pfeiffer
stated that Empress sponsored job fairs with Indiana casinos and Chicago area business,
placing 15 out of the 49 employees that have been reviewed so far with jobs. Mr. Pfeiffer
stated that Empress placed 18 employees internally and assisted almost 40 employees with
resume building as well as interview skills. Mr. Pfeiffer stated that Empress plans to pay
severance in 6-figure range for a number of the employees that were laid off.
Mr. Pfeiffer stated that marketing expenses have also been reduced.
Mr. Pfeiffer stated that so far, it appears that the actions that Empress has taken has reduced
AGR while increasing taxes paid to the State of Illinois.
HARRAH’S CASINO, JOLIET – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Michael St.
Pierre, General Manager, was present on behalf of Harrah’s Casino Joliet to provide the
Board with an update on Harrah’s operational changes. Mr. St. Pierre stated that Harrah’s
has not had material changes to its plan that was submitted to Staff outlining the responses to
the questions that were posed by Staff and the Board. Mr. St. Pierre stated that Harrah’s
reduced its hours of operation on September 3, 2003, and is currently open from 10:00 A.M.
to 4:00 A.M.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Rodney Phillipe,
Attorney, was present on behalf of Hollywood Casino to provide the Board with an update
on Hollywood’s operational changes. Mr. Phillipe stated that detailed information was
provided to the Board and that updated material provided to the Board are not materially
different than the original information. Mr. Phillipe stated that Hollywood began its new
hours of operation on August 18, 2003.
Mr. Phillipe stated that due to attrition and employees accepting other jobs in the company,
only 11 employees were effected by the change of hours of operation.
Interim Administrator Tamayo noted that Hollywood Casino requested to extend their hours
on specific weekends. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that at the last Board meeting,
the Board delegated authority to improve increases of hours for holidays, seasonal, and
special events.
Mr. Phillipe stated that Hollywood’s request to extend its hours on specific weekends was
not necessarily a revenue driven request. Mr. Phillipe stated that the request was really
something that would allow Hollywood to have operational flexibility during its busiest days.
5

 PAR-A-DICE CASINO – OPERATIONAL CHANGES – STATUS – Dave Daley, Vice
President and General Counsel, was present to provide the Board with an update on Par-ADice’s operational changes. Mr. Daley stated that on August 15, 2003 Par-A-Dice shifted
from a 8:30 A.M. opening to a 10:00 A.M. opening and from a 4:30 A.M. close to a 6:00
A.M. close. Mr. Daley stated that Par-A-Dice’s goal was to maintain revenue. Mr. Daley
stated that since the change has only been in effect for about three weeks, it is hard to
determine any trends at this point.
Mr. Daley stated that Par-A-Dice has changed the hours of operation for its food and
beverage outlets, reduced the number of table games, added 14 slot machines, and will soon
be adding an additional 41 slot machines. Mr. Daley stated that Par-a-Dice’s plan is to move
its turnstile. Mr. Daley stated that the purpose of the move is to permit, if Par-A-Dice elects
to, Par-A-Dice to charge admission.
Mr. Daley stated that in an to recovery some revenue, Par-A-Dice had a reduction in force
that affected 110 positions, however; 54 of the employees effected have been replaced
withing the company. Mr. Daley stated that it is expected that others would be replaced
through natural attrition.
CASINO QUEEN – REQUEST TO INCREASE HOURS OF OPERATION FROM 22 TO
24 HOURS – Jeff Watson, General Counsel, was present to seek initial consideration for
Casino Queen to increase it hours of operation from 22 to 24 hours. Mr. Watson stated that
Casino Queen’s request is based on an effort to remain competitive in the St. Louis
metropolitan area’s market, as well as an attempt to try to save jobs for Casino Queen’s
current employees.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that by way of history, the request to increase hours of
operation has occurred three times previously. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the
Board has previously not authorized it.
Member Peterlin expressed his concerns that the increase of hours would have an effect on
the compulsive gamblers.
Chairman Higginbottom stated that as a result of the tax increases, the other casinos are
requesting to reduce hours. Chairman Higginbottom asked why Casino Queen is doing just
the opposite.
Mr. Watson stated that Casino Queen is a different circumstance from the other casinos due
to the fact that Casino Queen is a private company, and that many of the other licensees are
publicly traded companies with different obligations and expectations. Mr. Watson stated
that the increase in hours was something that Casino Queen’s ownership group felt would be
a worthwhile exploration, to see if it would help increase competitiveness and save jobs.

6

 HARRAH’S ENTERTAINMENT, INC. – REQUEST TO ELIMINATE FINANCIAL
OWNERSHIP CONTINGENCY PLAN FOR HARRAH’S METROPOLIS – Mike Crider,
General Manager was present on behalf of Harrah’s Metropolis.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that on March 21, 2000 the Board authorized the
purchase by Harrah’s Entertainment of Players International, but at that time it required that
a financial contingency plan be developed. Interim Administrator Tamayo stated that the
plan included a trust agreement by and between Harrah’s and LaSalle Bank and a transferred
ownership agreement by and between Harrah’s, Players, and the Board, should a contingency
develop whereby the statute that authorize dual ownership ever be held unconstitutional.
Interim Administrator Tamayo stated pursuant to that agreement there were a number of
items that needed to occur, one being the reverse trigger event, which is up for the Board’s
consideration.
Mr. Crider requested the elimination of the contingency plan.
Member Clark moved that the Board adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, due to a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of
Public Act 91-40, the Board required an agreement by Harrah’s
providing that in the event Section 7(a)(7) of the Act is reinstated,
Harrah’s shall, within one day of such determination, transfer its
ownership interest in SIRCC to a trust;
WHEREAS, the Board has also received an agreement executed by
LaSalle National Bank Association, wherein the LaSalle National
Bank agreed to hold the ownership interest in SIRCC in the event
Section 7(a)(7) of the Act is reinstated;
WHEREAS, on June 20, 2003, Public Act 93-0028 became law,
which constitutes a reverse trigger event;
WHEREAS, Public Act 93-0028 amended section 11.2 of the
Riverboat Gambling Act to include a severability clause, removing
the former inseverability-clause language;
WHEREAS, no statutory purpose exists to require Harrah’sMetropolis to maintain a financial ownership contingency plan in
the event that section 11.2 is, in the future, declared
unconstitutional; and

7

 NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board hereby
removes all prior requirements that Harrah’s-Metropolis maintain
a financial ownership contingency plan.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – THOMAS J. HAWKS, SURVEILLANCE DIRECTOR –
LEVEL ONE – Jeff Pfeiffer was present on behalf of Thomas J. Hawks to request approval
as Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Thomas J. Hawks as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – MICHELLE M. LINDSEY, INTERNAL AUDITOR –
LEVEL ONE – Jeff Pfeiffer was present on behalf of Michelle M. Lindsey to request
approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve Michelle M. Lindsey as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation. Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
EMPRESS CASINO, JOLIET – MICHAEL S. DICKSON, DIRECTOR OF CASINO
OPERATIONS – LEVEL ONE – Jeff Pfeiffer was present on behalf of Michael S. Dickson
to request approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board approve Michael S. Dickson as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Empress Casino Joliet Corporation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND – WILLIAM L. KENNEDY, CASINO MANAGER – LEVEL
ONE – Donna More, Attorney, was present on behalf of William L. Kennedy to request
approval as a Level One.
Based on a review of the staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board approve William L. Kennedy as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of Rock
Island Boatworks, Inc. d/b/a Casino Rock Island. Member Peterlin seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

8

 Occupational Licensees
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that the Board
approve 48 applications for an Occupational License Level 2 and 111 applications for
an Occupational License Level 3.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a Notice
of Denial to Astrett Williams for a Level 3 license, who previously received notice that
staff intended to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional
information to rebut that recommendation. Member Clark seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Proposed Complaints and Disciplinary Actions
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino
and Jo Beth Thomason
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against:
(1) Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino, an Owner Licensee, for violating
the Act and Board rules in relation to its involvement in underage admissions in
October and November 2002; and
(2) Jo Beth Thomason, a Level 2 Occupational Licensee, for violating the Act and
Board rules in relation to her involvement in an underage admission in October 2002.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board fine Alton Belle Casino $50,000 and
suspend Jo Beth Thomason’s occupational license for fourteen (14) days without pay—
said suspension to run concurrently with the 14-day suspension Thomason previously
served. The aforementioned action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date
of service of the complaint unless the licensees file answers within that time period.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board accept the proposed settlement agreement
between the Board and Alton Belle Casino and delegate the authority to the Interim
Administrator to execute such agreement upon payment of the fine. Member Peterlin
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

9

 • In Re The Disciplinary Action of Alton Gaming Company d/b/a Alton Belle Casino
Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved
that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Alton Gaming Company d/b/a
Alton Belle Casino, an Owner Licensee, for violating the Act and Board rules by using a
temporary worker in a position that required an occupational license and for failing to
submit an occupational license application for said worker.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board fine Alton Belle Casino $75,000. The
aforementioned action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of
the complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Sharie Robinson
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Sharie Robinson, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Sharie Robinson’s admission that she stole $960 from
Alton Belle Casino.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Sharie Robinson’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Peterlin
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Linda McMahill
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Linda McMahill, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Linda McMahill’s admission that she stole $100 from ParA-Dice Casino.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Linda McMahill’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Paula Thomas
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Paula Thomas, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s

10

 Adopted Rules in relation to Paula Thomas’ act of stealing $500 from Hollywood
Casino Aurora.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Paula Thomas’ occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Peterlin
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Jill Pitts
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Jill Pitts, an Occupational Licensee,
for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s Adopted Rules
in relation to Jill Pitts’ act of obtaining and using fraudulent City of Rock Island
parking permits.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Jill Pitts’ occupational license.
Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Mark Cooprider
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Mark Cooprider, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Mark Cooprider’s act of obtaining and using fraudulent
City of Rock Island parking permits.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Mark Cooprider’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Peterlin
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of James Presser
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against James Presser, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to James Presser’s act of using a patron’s comp at Harrah’sMetropolis without the patron’s authorization.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke James Presser’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the

11

 Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Wendy Williams
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Clark moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Wendy Williams, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Wendy Williams’ act of soliciting tokes from patrons and
diverting dealer tokes at Hollywood Casino Aurora.
Further, Member Clark moved that the Board revoke Wendy Williams’ occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Peterlin
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
• In Re The Disciplinary Action of Charley Spann
Based on a review of Staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Peterlin moved that
the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Charley Spann, an Occupational
Licensee, for failing to comply with the Riverboat Gambling Act and the Board’s
Adopted Rules in relation to Charley Spann’s act of attempting to extort money from
an Alton Belle patron and providing false information to Board investigators.
Further, Member Peterlin moved that the Board revoke Charley Spann’s occupational
license. Said action will take affect twenty-one (21) days from the date of service of the
Complaint unless the licensee files an answer within that time period. Member Clark
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Member Peterlin expressed his concern regarding the number of people who are disciplined
each month. Member Peterlin stated that it is pretty obvious that people can be pretty
creative in finding ways to lose their jobs and commit crimes of dishonesty. Member
Peterlin stated that he hopes that the licensees could help the Board in making it known that
these types of crimes are happening and that people are getting caught and losing their jobs.
At 3:30 P.M., pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraphs (1), (11), and (14) of the Open Meetings
Act, Member Clark moved that the Board retire to Closed Session to discuss the following
subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
3. Personnel matters.
Member Peterlin seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

12

 At 3:45 P.M., the Board re-convened to Closed session.
At 5:40 P.M. Member Peterlin moved that the Board adjourn. Member Clark seconded the
motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas

Secretary to the Board

13

 