REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
PUBLIC HEARING

February 10, 2011
Recessed and Reconvened on February 15 and February 16, 2011

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Sims, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Collins,

Fritchey, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri,
Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (17)

Absent: None (0)

Also

Present: Zara Ali Director of Revenue; Tariq Malhance Chief Financial Of?cer
Coun

Reporter: Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant

to published notice on Thursday, February 10, 2011 at the hour of 10:30 AM. for a public
hearing in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairman Daley informed the Committee that the purpose of the meeting would be to hear
public testimony and entertain questions from committee members on any of the thirteen (13)
proposed ordinance amendments on the agenda. Further consideration of these matters 'will
then be deferred to Tuesday, February 15, 2011.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, moved to place
Communication Nos. 310964 through 310976 on the floor for discussion purposes only.
The motion carried.

Chairman Daley asked the Secretary of the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. The Secretary informed the Chairman
that there were no public Speakers present.

Chairman Daley recessed the meeting to Tuesday, February 15, 2011.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 2

February 15, 2011
Chairman Daley reCo'nvened the recessed Finance Committee meeting of February 10, 2011.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to further amend
the proposed amendment to the Amusement Tax Ordinance (Communication No.
310964). The motion carried, and Communication No. 310964 was amended, as follows:

AMENDMENT TO COMMUNICATION NUMBER 310964
(changes enacted by this amendment are in 

Sponsored by:
THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, COUNTY COMMISSIONER

310964 COOK COUNTY AMUSEMENT TAX ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Toni
Preckwinkle, President, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan
Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin
and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY AMUSEMENT TAX ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant
to Article VII, section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners adopted an Ordinance to provide for an Amusement Tax on
. February 1, 1997 and has adopted subsequent amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Revenue (Department) in the
interest of fair and equitable enforcement seeks to clarify significant definitions
and the application of each tax rate by amending Section 74?391 and Section 74-
392, respectively; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to clarify exemptions, exclusions guidelines and tax registration
procedures by amending Section 74?393, and Section 74-394, respectively; and
WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement. the Department
seeks to clarify tax return and remittance guidelines, and refund request time
limitations by amending Section 74-395 and Section 74-398, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to collect total amount of tax remitted 
by tax collectors, thereby eliminating the 1% tax collector tax credit for collections
discount by amending Section 74-395; and 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 3

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks the consistent application of violation penalties by amending Section 74-
401.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 74, Article of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances is hereby amended as follows: 

Sec. 74-390. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County
Amusement Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-391. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

Amusement means, but not limited to, any exhibition, performance,
presentation or show for entertainment purposes, including, but not limited to,
any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance, promotional show,
motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition, such as boxing, wrestling,
skating, dancing, swimming, riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, soccer, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling, er
billiard and pool games or paid television,

Departmentand Department of Revenue means the County Department
of Revenue.

Gross Admission fees or charges means, the entire or total amount paid
to enter. witness or view an amusement.

Live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performance means a
live performance in any of the disciplines which are commonly regarded as part
of the fine arts, such as live theater, music, opera, drama, comedy, ballet,
modem or traditional dance, and book or poetry readings. The term does not
include such amusements as athletic events, races, or performances conducted
at adult entertainment cabarets (as defined in Section 14.2.1 of the Cook County
Zoning Ordinance of 2001 

Maximum capacity means the persons that an auditorium, theater or other
space may accommodate as determined by the local fire department or other
appropriate governmental agency; provided, however, that maximum capacity
shall not exceed the maximum number of tickets or admissions that may be
made available for sale to a performance as stated in any binding written
agreement relating to that performance. If the number of tickets or admissions

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 4

actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally permissible limit, then, for
purposes of determining the applicable tax, the term "maximum capacity" shall
mean such greater number.

Owner means:

Owner of a place where an amusement is being ?held means. any person
who has an ownership or leasehold interest in a building, structure, vehicle, boat,
area or other place who presents, conducts or operates an amusement in such
place or who allows, by agreement or otherwise, another person to present,
conduct or operate an amusement in such place;

Owner of an amusement means, any person which has an ownership or
leasehold interest in such amusement or any person who has a preprietary
interest in the amusement so as to entitle such person to all or a portion of the
proceeds, after payment of reasonable expenses, from the operation, conduct or
presentation of such amusement. excluding proceeds from non-amusement
services and from sales of tangible personal property.

Paid television means programming that can be viewed on a television or
other screen, and is transmitted by cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio.
satellite or similar means to members of the public for consideration.

Place of amusement means any building or part of a building, park or
other grounds used or intended to be used for any amusement as defined in this
Article.

Patron means any person who acquires the privilege to witness. to view
or participate in an amusement.

Person means any individual, comoration, Limited Liability Corporation,
organization, government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust.
estate. trust, partnership, association and any other legal entity.

 

Tax Collector means, any person as required by this article to register.
collect, and remit Cook County Amusement Tax.

Ticket means the privilege to enter, to witness, or View an amusement,
whether or not issued, obtained, provided, or expressed in a tangible form.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 5

Ticket Reseiler means any person who purchases or acquires a ticket for
resale and not for use or consumption; or for consideration resells a ticket on
behalf of the tickets owner or assists the owner in reselling the ticket. The term
includes but is not limited to an auctioneer, a broker or a seller of tickets for
amusements, as those terms are used in 65 5i11-42-1. and applies whether
the ticket is resold by bidding, consignment or otherwise, and whether the ticket
is resold in person, at a site on the Internet or otherwise.

Ticket Reseller maintaininq a place of business in the County means

(1) Havinq or maintaining within the County. directly or by a
subsidiary. an office, distribution house. sales house. warehouse
or other place of business or any agent or other representative
operatino within the County. irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in Cook
County permanently or temporarily; or

(2) Makinq ticket sales at location in Cook Countv; or
Owning or possessing real or personal property located or used in
Cook County for the purpose of or incidental to the making of
mm
Ticket Reseller Service Fee means any amount in addition to: over or
above the basic ticket price included in the sellino price paid by the purchaser of
Sec. 74-392 Tax Imposed.

Three-percent tax rate.

Except as othenivise as provided in this section, an amusement tax is
imposed upon the patrons of every amusement which takes place within the
County. The rate of the tax shall be equal to 3 percent of the admission fees or
other charges paid for the privilege to enter, to witness or to view such
amusement, except as otherwise provided by this section.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 6

Qt One and one-half percent tax rate.

The rate of the tax imposed in Subsection of this section shall be 1.5
percent of the admission fees or other charges to witness in person live
theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances that take place in any
auditorium, theater or other space in the County whose maximum capacity,
including all balconies and other sections, is 5,000 persons or more.



Q) One-percent tax rate.

The rate of the tax imposed in Subsection of this section shall be one
percent of the admission fees or other charges to witness in person live
theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performances that take place in any
auditorium, theater or other space in the County whose maximum capacity,
including all balconies and other sections, is more than 750 persons and less
than 5,000 persons.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tax applied to Tickets reseller service charges or fees

Ticket resellers shall collect the tax on the ticket reseller service fee. as
described in section 7'4-391 of this Article, from persons seeking to enter, witness
or view an amusement in Cook County. The rate of this tax shall be three percent
of the ticket reseller service fee. This tax shall not applv if the is amusement
exempt. as described in this Article, or otherwise not subiect to the tax imposed

by-this section.

SeeJ4?392f?lax?lmpesedv
Tax additional.

. - The tax imposed in this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the County, the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political
subdivision of any of the foregoing.

See44-392rei?4aaeenposeec

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 7

Federat State; Local taxes

For the purpose of determining the amount of the amusement tax due
under this article, admission fees or other charges shall be computed exclusive of
any Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed upon the amusement patron and
any separately stated charges for non-amusement services or for sales of
tangible personal property.



Uniawful not to collect tax

It is unlawful for any person to produce, present or conduct any
amusement without collection of the tax, except as provided in this article.

See?Z4?393Hax?additional moved to Sec 74-392?)

Sec. 74-393 Exemptions ang_ Exclusions.

Exemption Applicatidn; exemptions

Admission charges or fees paid to enter, witness or View an Amusement
sponsored or conducted by, and the proceeds of which, after payment of
reasonable expenses inure exclusively to the benefit of the persons noted below,
shall not be exempt unless the owner or operator of the amusement makes a
written application for exemption on forms prescribed by the Department at least
15 days prior to the date of the amusement.

 

61.1. Religious, educational and charitable institutions, societies or
organizations;

b2. Societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to children
or animals;

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 8

Societies or organizations conducted and maintained for the
purpose of civic improvement;

Fraternal organizations. legion posts, social and political groups
which conduct amusements. Sponsored occasionally but not more
often than twice yearly; provided, however, that the entities
described in Subsections of this section are not-for?pro?t
institutions, organizations, groups or societies, where no part of
the net earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or
person;

Organizations or persons in the armed services of the United
States, or National Guard organizations, reserve officers'
associations, or organizations or .posts of war veterans, or
auxiliary units or societies of such posts or organizations, if such
posts, organizations, units or societies are organized in the State,
and if no part of their earnings inure to the benefit of any private
shareholder or person;

Organizations or associations created and maintained for the
purpose of benefiting the members, or dependents or heirs of
members, of the police or fire provided that the exemptions
contained in Subsections (3) a--f of this section shall apply only
to benefits or other fundraising events and shall not apply to more
than two events per calendar year which shall not exceed a total
of 14 calendar days.

Societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose of
maintaining orchestras, opera performances or artistic
presentations, including, but not limited to, musical presentations,
("artistic societies or organizations?), if the artistic society or
organization:

Receives substantial support from voluntary contributions;

2g. Is a not-for-profit institution where no part of the net
earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or
person; and

3.9. Either (I) bears all risk of financial loss from its presentation
of the amusement, where the amusement takes place at a
venue that is owned or operated, a not?for?profit institution,
no part of whose net earnings inure to the benefit of any
private shareholder or person, and where the amusement
is limited to an engagement of not more than four calendar
days over the course of a calendar year or, (ii) is
substantially and. materially involved in the production and
performance of the amusement. Where an amusement is

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 9

sponsored or conducted by two or more artistic societies or
organizations, the requirements of Subsections (3) 9.1
and 2 of this section must be met by each of such artistic
societies or organizations, but the requirements of
Subsection (such artistic
societies or organizations, individually or in combination.

Exclusions

The tax shall not be imposed on the followinq persons or privileges:

? 392lli II I . I. SI I. 

(1)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Sec 74-394

The privilege of witnessing any stock show or business show that
is not open to the general public;

The privilege of witnessing any amateur production or activity such
as amateur musicals, plays and athletic events conducted by a
not?for?profit organization operated exclusively for charitable,
educational or religious purposes; or

The admission fees to witness, in person live, theatrical, live
musical or other live cultural performances that take place in any
auditorium, theater or other space in the County, whose maximum
capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is not more
than 750 persons.

Initiation fees and membership dues paid to a health club,
racquetball club, tennis club or a similar club or organization, when
such club or organization is organized and operated on a
membership basis and for the recreational purposes of its
members and its members' guests, shall be exempt from the tax
imposed in Subsectidn of this section. This exemption shall not
be construed to apply to any fees paid or based upon a per-event
or a per-admission basis.

Fees or other charges paid by a patron for the privilege of
witnessing, viewing or participating in an amusement, solely within
the confines of such patron's home, shall be exempt from the
imposition of the tax imposed in Subsection of this section. For
purposes of this exemption, the term "home" means the
permanent dwelling residence of the patron. For patrons who iive
in condominium buildings, apartment buildings or other multiple-
unit structures, the individual dwelling unit the patron occupies
shall be considered the patron's home.

Registration.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 10

Every owner. manaoer or operator of an amusement temporarily or
permanently in the County, or a place of amusement in the County, shall register
with the Department no later than 30 days after the effective date of this
ordinance. It shall be unlawful to enoaoe in the business of sponsorinq.
conducting or orovidinq amusements in Cook County without a certificate of
registration. Application for registration shall be made to the Department on forms
prescribed by the Department.



Sec T4-395 Returns and remittances.

it shall be the ioint and several duty of every owner. manaoer. operator of
an amusement, a place where an amusement is beino held or place of
amusement and every ticket reseller to secure from each patron the tax imposed
by this article. Tax payments accompanied by tax returns' prescribe the
Department shall be remitted to the Department on or before the 20th day of the
month followinq the month for which the tax is due.

 

Sec. 74-396 Books and records.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page11

Canceled admission tickets and complete and accurate records,
books and accounts, in detail, of all receipts shall be kept at the place of
amusement or such other place in the County as may be designated in writing by
the person liable for collection of the tax. All such books, records and accounts
shall be open to inspection by the Department at all reasonable times during
business hours.






tWeManW?eLihatMtW?memmasem

business-hm


Sec 74-397 Tax collector.

Every owner, manager, or operator who is required to collect the tax
imposed by this article shall be considered a tax collector for the County. All
amusement taxes collected shall be held by such tax collector as trustee for and
on behalf of the County. The failure of the tax collector to collect the tax shall not
excuse or release the patron from the obligation to pay the tax.

Sec 74-398 Refund Statue of Limitations.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in order to permit
sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the County, no person shall be entitled to
a refund of, or credit for, the tax imposed by this article unless the person files a
claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the tax was paid
or remitted to the Department.


Sec 74-399 Rules and regulations: authorized.

The Department of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and
enforce rules and regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of
this article. 



thisa?islee

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 12

Sec 74-400 Violations: penalty.

Anv person determined to have violated this article. as amended. shall be
subiect to a fine of $1000.00 for the first offense. and a fine of $2,000.00 for the
second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be
redarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue anv such
violation. or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this article for any person to knowinqiv furnish false or
inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this
article shall in no way bar the riqht of the County to institute civil proceedings to
recover delinquent taxes. interest and penalty due and owind as well as costs
incurred for such proceedind.



Sec 74-401 Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures
ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever

this article is silent, the provisions of the Uniform Penalties, interest and

Procedures Ordinance shall apply and supplement this article.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2/1/11.

Chairman Daley recessed the meeting until February 16, 2011.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 13

February 16, 2011

Chairman Daley reconvened the recessed Finance Committee meeting of February 10 and
February 15, 2011.

Before proceeding with the agenda, Chairman Daley entered into the record a letter dated
February 14, 2011, from Tanya Triche, Senior Counsel for the Illinois Retail Merchants
Association (Attachment A). The Chairman then called the first item, Communication No.
310964, for consideration.

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to accept a Substitute
Ordinance Amendment to Communication No. 310964, as amended. The motion carried,
and Communication No. 310964 was further amended by substitution, as follows:

Substitute Amendment to Communication Number 310964
(Changes by this action are indicated by underlined or stricken)

Sponsored by:
THE HONORABLE BRIDGET GAINER

Cosponsored by:
THE HONORABLE ROBERT STEELE, PETER SILVESTRI and LARRY SUFFREDIN

Sec. 74-390. - Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Amusement Tax
Ordinance.

Sec. 74?391. - Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:

Amusement means any exhibition, performance, presentation or show for entertainment
purposes, including, but not limited to, any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular
performance, promotional show, motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal
act, circus, rodeo, athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition, such as boxing, wrestling,
skating, dancing, swimming, riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball, softball, soccer,
football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling, or billiard and pool games. For
purposes of this article, the term "amusement" shall not mean any recreational activity offered
for public participation or on a membership or other basis, including, but not limited to, carnivals,
amusement park rides and games, bowling, billiards and pool games, dancing, tennis, golf,
racquetball, swimming, weightlifting, body building or similar activities. For purposes of this
article, the term "amusement" shall not mean raffles, as defined in 230 ILCS 15/1 (Raffles Act?

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 14

definitions), intertrack wagering facilities, as defined in the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975
(230 5/1 et seq.), or automatic amusement devices.

Automatic amusement devices means any machine which upon the insertion of a coin,
slug. token, or similar object may be operated generally by any person for use as a game.
entertainment or amusement. whether or not registering a score, and includes but is not limited
to such devices as jukeboxes. marble machines, pinball machines, video games, movie or video
booths or stands and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto under whatever name
by which they may be indicated.

Department and Department of Revenue mean the County Department of Revenue.

Live theatrical, live musical or other live cultural performance means a live performance
in any of the disciplines which are commonly regarded as part of the fine arts, such as live
theater, music, opera, drama, comedy, ballet, modem or traditional dance. and book or poetry
readings. The term does not include such amusements as athletic events, races. or
performances conducted at adult entertainment cabarets (as defined in Section 14.2.1 of the
Cook County Zoning Ordinance of 2001 

Maximum capacity means the persons that an auditorium, theater or other space may
accommodate as determined by the local fire department or other governmental
agency; provided, however, that maximum capacity shall not exceed the maximum number of
tickets or admissions that may be made available for sale to a performance as stated in any
binding written agreement relating to that performance. If the number of tickets or admissions
actually sold to a performance exceeds the legally permissible limit, then, for purposes of
determining the applicable tax, the term "maximum capacity" shall mean such greater number.

Owner means:

(1) With respect to the owner of a place where an amusement is being held, any person
who has an ownership or leasehold interest in a building, structure, vehicle, boat, area or other
place who presents, conducts or operates an amusement in such place or who allows, by
agreement or otherwise, another person to present, conduct or operate an amusement in such
place;

(2) With respect to the owner of an amusement, any person which has an ownership or
leasehold interest in such amusement or any person who has a proprietary interest in the
amusement so as to entitle such person to all or a portion of the proceeds, after payment of
reasonable expenses, from the operation, conduct or presentation of such amusement,
excluding proceeds from nonamusement services and from sales of tangible personal property.

Person means any natural individual, firm, society, foundation, institution, partnership.
limited liability company, association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private
corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other representative appointed by the order of any
court. or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine.
feminine, singular and plural are included in any circumstance.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 15

(0rd. No. 96-0-29, 2, 11-22-1996; 0rd. No. 98-0-29, 11-17-1998; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 
2, 4-6-1999.)

Sec. 74?392. - Tax imposed.

Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax is imposed upon the
patrons of every amusement which takes place within the County. The rate of the tax shall be
equal to three percent of the admission fees or other charges paid for the privilege to enter, to
witness or to view such amusement, unless Subsection (9) of this section provides for a lower
rate.

The tax imposed by Subsection of this section shall not apply to the following
persons or privileges:

(1) The privilege of witnessing any stock show or business show that is not open to the
general public;

(2) The privilege of witnessing any amateur production or activity such as amateur
musicals, plays and athletic events conducted by a not-for?pro?t organization operated
exclusively for charitable, educational or religious purposes; or

(3) Subject to satisfying the requirement contained in Subsection (0) of this section, the
privilege of witnessing any amusement sponsored or conducted by and the proceeds of which,
after payment of reasonable expenses, inure exclusively to the benefit of:

a. Religious, educational and charitable institutions, societies or organizations;
b. Societies or organizations for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals;
0. Societies or organizations conducted and maintained for the purpose of civic improvement;

d. Fraternal organizations, legion posts, social and political groups which conduct amusements,
sponsored occasionally but not more often than twice yearly; provided, however, that the
entities described in Subsections of this section are not-for-profit institutions,
organizations, groups or societies, where no part of the net earnings inure to the benefit of any
private shareholder or person;

e. Organizations or persons in the armed services of the United States, or National Guard
organizations, reserve officers' associations, or organizations or posts of war veterans, or
auxiliary units or societies of such posts or organizations, if such posts, organizations, units or
societies are organized in the State, and if no part of their earnings inure to the benefit of any
private shareholder or person;

f. Organizations or associations created and maintained for the purpose of benefiting the
members, or dependents or heirs of members, of the police or fire provided that the exemptions
contained in Subsections of this section shall apply only to benefits or other

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 16

fundraising events and shall not apply to more than two events per calendar year which shall
not exceed a total of 14 calendar days.

9. Societies or organizations conducted for the sole purpose of maintaining 
orchestras, opera performances or artistic presentations, including, but not limited to, musical
presentations, ("artistic societies or organizations"), if the artistic society or organization:

1. Receives substantial support from voluntary contributions;

2. Is a not-for?profit institution where no part of the net earnings inure to the benefit of
any private shareholder or person; and

3. Either bears all risk of financial loss from its presentation of the amusement, where
the amusement takes place at a venue that is owned or operated, a not-for-profit institution, no
part of whose net earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or person, and where
the amusement is limited to an engagement of not more than four calendar days over the
course of a calendar year or (ii) is substantially and materially involved in the production and
performance of the amusement. Where an amusement is sponsored or conducted by two or
more artistic societies or organizations, the requirements of Subsections and 2 of this
section must be met by each of such artistic societies or organizations, but the requirements of
Subsection may be met by any of such artistic societies or organizations, individually
or in combination.

(0) None of the exemptions contained in Subsection of this section shall apply to a
person or privilege unless a written application for exemption is filed with the Department at
least 15 calendar days prior to the amusement. The application shall be on a form prescribed by
the Director of Revenue and shall contain all information and materials necessary to permit the
Department to determine whether the exemption claimed by the applicant is applicable.

. The tax imposed in Subsection of this section shall not apply to or be imposed
upon:

(1) The admission fees to witness in person, live theatrical, live musical or other live
cultural performances that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County,
whose maximum capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is not more than 750
persons.

(2) Initiation fees and membership dues paid to a health club, racquetball club, tennis
club or a similar club or organization, when such club or organization is organized and operated
on a membership basis and for the recreational purposes of its members and its members'
guests, shall be exempt from the tax imposed in Subsection of this section. This exemption
shall not be construed to apply to any fees paid or based upon a per-event or a per-admission
basis.

(3) Fees or other charges paid by a patron for the privilege of witnessing, viewing or
participating in an amusement, solely within the confines of such patron's home, shall be
exempt from the imposition of the tax imposed in Subsection of this section. For purposes of
this exemption, the term "home" means the permanent dwelling residence of the patron. For

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 17

patrons who live in condominium buildings, apartment buildings or other multiple-unit structures,
the individual dwelling unit the patron occupies shall be considered the patron's home.

For the purpose of determining the amount of the amusement tax due under this
article, admission fees or other charges shall be computed exclusive of any Federal, State or
municipal taxes imposed upon the amusement patron and any separately stated charges for
nonamusement services or for sales of tangible personal property.

It is unlawful for any person to produce, present or conduct any amusement without
collection of the tax, except as provided in this article.

(1) The rate of the tax imposed in Subsection of this section shall be one percent
of the admission fees or other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other
live cultural performances that take piece in any auditorium, theater or other space in the
County whose maximum capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is more than 750
persons and less than 5,000 persons.

(2) The rate of the tax imposed in Subsectionfa) of this section shall be 1.5 percent of
the admission fees or other charges to witness in person live theatrical, live musical or other live
cultural performances that take place in any auditorium, theater or other space in the County
whose maximum capacity, including all balconies and other sections, is 5,000 persons or more.

(Ord. No. 96-0-29, 3, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 3, 4-6-1999.)
Sec. 74-393. - Tax additional.

The tax imposed in this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the County, the
State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political subdivision of any of the foregoing.

(Ord. No. 96-0-29, 1, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 1, 4-6-1999.)
Sec. 74-394. Registration.

Every owner, manager or operator of an amusement or of a place where an amusement
is being held in the County, shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the Department no
later than 30 days after commencing such business or 30 days after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived, whichever occurs later. Application for registration
shall be made to the Department by use of the form furnished by the Department for such
purpose and shall contain such information as the Department may reasonably require.

(Ord. No. 96-0-29, 4, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 4-6-1999.)
Sec. 74-395. - Collection, payment and accounting.
it shall be the ioint and several dutv of every owner, manaoer, operator of an

amusement. a place when an amusement is being held or place of amusement and every ticket
reseller to secure from each patron the tax imposed bv this article. Tax pavments accompanied

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 18

by tax returns_prescribe the Department shall be remitted to the Department on or before the
20?1 day of the month fellowing the month for which the tax is due.

 

Canceled admission tickets and complete and accurate records, books and accounts
in detail of all receipts shall be kept at the place of amusement or such other place in the County
as may be designated in writing by the. person liable for collection of the tax. All such books,
records and accounts shall be open to inspection by the Department at all reasonable times
during business hours.

(0) Every owner, manager, or operator who is required to collect the tax imposed by this
article shall be considered a tax collector for the County. All amusement taxes collected shall be
held by such tax collector as trustee for and on behalf of the County. The failure of the tax
collector to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the patron from the obligation to pay the
tax.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, in order to permit sound fiscal
planning and budgeting by the County, no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for,
the tax imposed by this article unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one year
after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted to the Department.

(Ord. No. 96-0-29, 5, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99?0-15, 5, 4-6-1999.)

Sec. 74-396. - Rules and regulations; authorized.

The Department of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this article.

(Ord. No. 96-0-29, 6, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 6, 4-6-1999.)
Sec. 74?397. - Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures ordinance.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this article is

silent,,the provisions of the Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance shall apply
and supplement this article.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 19

(Ord. No. 96-0?29, 7, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 7, 4-6-1999.)
Sec. 74-398. Violations; penalty.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be fined not less than
$200.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. Every day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.

(Ord. No. 96?0?29, 9, 11-22-1996; Ord. No. 99-0-15, 9, 4-6-1999.)

Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved approval of the
Substitute Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310964).
Commissioner Steele called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Substitute Pr0posed Amendment
to the Amusement Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310964)

Yeas: Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (12)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Substitute Proposed Amendment to the Amusement Tax
Ordinance (Communication No. 310964), as amended, was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310965, for
consideration.

310965 AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY RETAIL SALE OF GASOLINE AND
DIESEL FUEL TAX ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle,
President, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy,
Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R.
Tobolski, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY RETAIL SALE OF GASOLINE
AND DIESEL FUEL TAX ORDINANCE
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant

to Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 20

Commissioners adopted an Ordinance to provide for a tax on the retail sale of
gasoline and diesel fuel (?Retail Sale of Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Tax
Ordinance?) on July 1, 1975 and has adopted subsequent amendments; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Cook County
Department of Revenue (Department) seeks clarify the significant enforcement
language by amending Section 74-471; and, the application of the tax on
biodiesel fuel by amending Section 74-472; and,

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to apply the .tax to Gdiesel fuel by amending Section 74?472: require retail
gas and diesel fuel dealers to register with the Department by amending Section
74-474; and, require retail dealers to file gas and diesel fuel inventory,
purchases and sales information returns by amending Section 74475; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to provide the types of books and records to be maintained by gas
distributors and retail dealers by amending Section 74-478; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to incentivize the timely filing of municipality or township request tax
rebates by the addition of Section 74-481.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 74, Article XII, Section 74-470 through 74-482 of the
Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-470. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Retail
Sale of Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-471. Definitions

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

Biodiesel Fuei means a fuel made wholly or partly from vegetable oils,
animal fate or any other renewable resource or naturally occurring material. for
use in a diesel enqine. This definition does not include home heatinq oil or
railroad locomotive fuel.

Consumer means end user

Department means the Department of Revenue.

Diesel fuel means any petroleum product intended for use or offered for
sale as a fuel for engines in which the fuel is injected into-the combustion

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 21

chamber and ignited by pressure without electric spark. This definition does not
include home heating oil or railroad locomotive fuel.

Gasoline means all products sold as gasoline, which also includes
aviation gasoline and gasohol, or any product which consists of gasoline blended
with alcohol. This definitions does not include propane, kerosene orjet fuel.

Gas Distributor means any person who either produces. refines, blends.
compounds. or manufactures gasoline or diesel fuel in this County or transports
or has transported gasoline or diesel fuel into this County or receives gasoline.
diesel fuel or biodiesel fuel in Cook County on which this tax has not been paid.

 

GDiesel Fuel means fuel made wholly or partly from Ultraslow Sulfur
Diesel and Natural Gas intended for use or offered for sale as a fuel for a diesel
engine. This definition does not include home heating oil or rail locomotive fuel.

Person means any individual, corporation. Limited Liability Corporation.
organization. government. governmental subdivision or agency business trust.
estate. trust. partnership. association and any other legal entity.

Retail dealer means any person who engages in the business of selling
gasoline. diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or gdiesel fuel in the County to a purchaser for
use or consumption and not for resale in any form.

Sale. resale and selling means any transfer of ownership or possession or
both. exchange or barter. conditional or othenlvise. in any manner or by any
means whatsoever. in every case where gasoline. diesel fuel, biodiesel. or
gdiesel fuel are exchanged. given or otherwise disposed of. it shall be deemed to
have been sold.

Sec. 74-472. Tax imposed.

Tax rate. A tax is hereby imposed on the retail sale in Cook
County of gasoline. diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel, and GDiesel Fuel at the rate of
$0.06 per gallon or fraction thereof. The tax is to be paid by the purchaser, and
nothing in this article shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of
distributors, suppliers or retail dealers.

The incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied in this
article is to be borne by the consumer of the gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel
and gdiesel fuel. Therefore, it shall be deemed a violation of this article for any
distributor or retail dealer to fail to include the tax in the retail sale price of

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 22

gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel, gdiesel fuel or to otherwise absorb the tax.

(0)7 Taxable transactions. Except as provisions are made in this
article for the collection of the tax levied in this article upon the sale of gasoline,
diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel and qdiesel fuel in the possession of distributors or
retail dealers on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is
derived, the tax levied in this article shall be collected by each distributor or
supplier who sells gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel, or gdiesel fuel to:

(1) A retail dealer doing business in the County;

(2) A consumer who purchases gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or

gdiesel fuel directly from a Gas Distributor m?supplisr for delivery
in the County; or

(3) Another gs Distributor epsupplier doing business in the County
that is not holding a valid registration certificate.

Any gig Distributor or supplier of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel
fuel or gdiesel fuel shall pay the tax levied by this article to the Department. Any
person receiving payment of this tax shall be a trustee for the County.

If the retail dealer shall receive gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel
or gdiesel fuel upon which no tax has been collected by the distributor or
supplier, and then the retail dealer shall collect such tax and remit it directly to the
Department within 30 days of the receipt of such gasoline or diesel fuel.

Lg) See?14471 Tax in addition to other taxes. The tax imposed by
this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by the Government of
the United States, the State, or by any unit of local government.

Sec. 74-473. Tax-free sales.

Gas Distributors and?suppliers doing business in the County shall make
tax?free sales of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel with respect to
which they are otherwise required to collect the tax to the following:

(1) Another Distributor er?supplier holding a valid registration

Cook County Department of Revenue gas tax certificate of
registration;

(2) Another Gas Distributor, supplier, or a retail dealer where the
selling distributor, or its agent, delivers the gasoline, diesel fuel,
biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel to a location outside of the County;

(3) The United States of America, the State, or their instrumentalities.

Sec. 74-474. Gas Distributor; retail gealer registration.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 23

La) Gas Distributors who produce, refine, blend, compound, or
manufacture gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel in this County or
transports or has transported gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel
into this County or receives gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel in
Cook County on which this tax has not been paid shall register with the
Department within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance.

Retail Dealers engaged in the business of selling gasoline, diesel
fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel in the County to a purchaser for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form. shall register with the Department
within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance.

Lo) It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of a Gas Distributor
or Retail Dealer, as defined in this article, prior to obtaining a certificate of Gas
Tax registration issued by the Department;

Moved to Sec 74-
474 and Sec 74-475.

 

SeeJ4?415?Ralemaking moved to 74-480.

Sec 74-475 Returns and remittances.

Gas Distributors shall file each month with the Department a
reign of sales of gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel in such form
as prescribed and furnished by the Department on or before the 20th day from
the last day of the month for which the return is due. Each report of sales of
gasoline or diesel fuel shall be accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate
amount of tax applicable to the sales reported. The remittance shall be made
payable to the County Collector.

Retailers Dealers shall file each month with the Department
gasoline. diesel fuel. biodiesel fuel. or qdiesel fuel beginning inventory,
purchases. sales, and ending inyentory information on forms prescribed and
furnished by the Department on or before the 20th day of the month following the
month for which the for which the forms are due.

See?74416?Penalties moved to Sec 74-478 and changed title to Violation

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 24

Penalties.
Sec 74-476 Tax in addition to other taxes.

The tax imposed by this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the Government of the United States, the State, or by any unit of local
government.

moved to Sec 74-472.

Sec 74-477 Books and records .

Eyery oas distributor and retail dealer, as de?ned in this article, shall keep
accurate books and records of its beoinnino inventory. purchases, sates and
endino inventory including orioinai source documents and books of entry
denotino the transactions that Gaye rise, or may have oiyen rise. to any tax
liability, exemption or deduction or defense to liability. Books and records and
other papers relatino to transactions which occurred durino any period with
respect to which the Department is authorized to issue notices of tax liability as
p_royided in Chapter 34. Article Ill, Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance shall be preserved until the expiration of such period unless the
Department. in writino, authorizes their destruction or disposal prior to such
goiration. All those books and records shall be kept in the Enolish lanquaqe and,
at all times durino business hours, shall be subiect to and available for inspection
or copyinq bv the Department.

moved to Sec 74-479.

Sec 74-478 Violation Penalties.

Any person determined to have yiolated this article, as amended, shall be
subiect to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the
second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such
violation, or permit any such yiotation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this article for any person to knowinqu furnish false or
inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this
article shall in no way bar the riqht of the County to institute ciyil proceedinos to
recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and swine as well as costs
incurred for such proceedinq.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 25

 

Sec 74-479 Municipality and township tax rebate.

Any municipality or township with its primary administrative office located
in the County shall be entitled to a tax rebate. Such rebate shall be paid on an
annual basis. Claims for such reimbursement must be made within six months
from the end of each calendar year, upon forms prescribed by the Department.
The Department shall determine the proof required to substantiate the rebate by
rule.

Sec 74-480 Tax Rebate Late Filing Penalty.

Any request for gas tax rebate received by the Department. postmarked
or physically received after the due date. June 30?? of the year following the
calendar year for which the tax rebate is being requested. shall be assessed a
penalty equal to 10% of the total amount of the tax rebate due or owed by the
Department to the municipality or township.

Sec 74-481 Application of uniform penalties. interest and procedures
ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever
this article is silent. the provisions of the Uniform Penalties. interest and
Procedures Ordinance shall apply and supplement this article.

See?14415 Sec 74-482 Rulemaking

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and
regulations necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such
rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable
procedures consistent with existing practices of distributors, suppliers and retail
dealers for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied upon the purchaser
of gasoline or diesel fuel.

The Department may appoint distributors or suppliers and any
other person within or without the County as agents for the tax levied in this
article. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a commission not
exceeding one-half of one percent of the tax due to the County to such agent for
services rendered in connection with the tax levied in this article, provided the tax
is remitted, in full. by the due date.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2/1/11.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 26

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the
Proposed Amendment to the Retail Sale of Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Tax Ordinance
(Communication No. 310965). Prior to a vote on the main motion, Commissioner
Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, moved to amend the main motion by
approval of Amendment A to Communication No. 310965. The motion carried, and
Communication No. 310965 was amended, as follows:

AMENDMENT A TO COMMUNICATION NUMBER 310965
(Changes are 

Sponsored by:

THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA,
ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
TIMOTHY 0. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,

ROBERT B. STEELE, AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 74-474. Gas Distributor; retail dealer reqistration.

Gas Distributors who produce, refine, blend, compound, or manufacture gasoline, diesel
fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel in this County or transports or has transported gasoline, diesel
fuel, biodiesel fuel or qdiesel fuel into this County or receives gasoline, diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel
or gdiesel fuel in Cook County on which this tax has not been paid shall register with the
Department within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance.

 

 

 

 

1m RMEEWMWM
WW

(0) It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of a Gas Distribu?m?g

defined in this article, prior to obtaining a certificate of Gas Tax registration issued by the
Department;

 

 

 

mW?Ww-ime

Sec 74-475 Returns and remittances.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 27

faLGas Distributors shall file each month with the Department a report of sales of gasoline,
diesel fuel, biodiesel fuel or ddiesel fuel in such form as prescribed and furnished by the
Department on or before the 20th day from the last dav of the month for which the return is due.
Each report of sales of gasoline or diesel fuel shall be accompanied by a remittance of the
appropriate amount of tax applicable to the sales reported. The remittance shall be made
@yable to the County Collector. -

 

Sec Tit-477 Books and records.

Everv qas distributor as defined in this article, shall keep accurate books and
records of its beginning inventory, purchases, sales and endinq inventory inciudinq_orioinal
source documents and books of entry denotinq the transactions that gave rise, or may have
gi_ven rise. to anv tax liabilitv. exemption or deduction or defense to liability. Books and records
and other papers relating to transactions which occurred durinq any period with respect to which
the Department is authorized to issue notices of tax liability as provided in Chapter 34. Article 
Uniform Penalties. interest and Procedures Ordinance shall be preserved until the expiration of
such period unless the Department, in writino, authorizes their destruction or disposai prior to
such expiration. All those books and records shall be kept in the English lanquaoe and, at all
times during business hours, shall be subiect to and available for inspection or copvl?no bv the

Department.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. .310965), as amended.
Commis?sioner Steele called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Retail Sale of
Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Tax Ordinance, as Amended (Communication No. 310965)

Yeas: Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, . Goslin,
Murphy, Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman, Sims, Steele,?Suffredin,
and Tobolski (13) 

Nays: Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)

Absent: Commissioners Butler and Fritchey (2)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Retail Sale of Gasoline and

Diesel Fuel Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310965), as amended, was approved and

adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310966, for
consideration.

310966

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 28

AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY RETAIL SALE OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle,
President, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy,
Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R.
Tobolski, County Commissioners. .

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
RETAIL SALE OF COOK COUNTY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TAX

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant
to Article VII, section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners adopted an Ordinance to provide for a tax on the retail sale of
liquor, ?Cook County Tax On The Retail Sale of Alcoholic Beverages", effective
July 1, 1975, and has adopted subsequent amendments; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Cook County
Department of Revenue (Department) seeks required retail alcoholic beverages
dealers to register by amending Section 74-354; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to clarify books and records to be maintained by wholesalers and retailers
by amending Section 74-356; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks the consistent application of violation penalties and tax assessment
penalties, by amending Sections 74-359 and 74-361, respectively.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Article IX, Chapter 74-350 through 74-362 of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-350. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Retail
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-351. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

Alcohol means the product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes 
ethyl alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 29

Alcoholic beverage includes alcohol spirits, wine and beer and any liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and capable of
being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this article
shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced
in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated there-under,
nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent or less of alcohol by
volume.

Beer means a beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an
infusion or concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and
includes, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager, beer, porter and the like.

Department means the Department of Revenue.

Person means any individual, corporation, Limited Liability Corporation,
organization, government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Retail alcoholic beverage dealer means any person who engages in the
business of selling alcoholic beverages in the County to a purchaser for use or
consumption, and not for resale in any form.

Sale, resale and selling mean any transfer of ownership or possession or
both, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any
means whatsoever for a valuable consideration.

Spirits means any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by
distillation, mixed with water or other substances in solution, and includes brandy,
rum, whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified,
blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.

Wholesale alcoholic beverage dealer means any person who engages in
the business of selling or supplying alcoholic beverages to any person for resale
in the County.

Wine means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the
natural contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such
beverages when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.

Sec. 74-352. Tax imposed.

A tax is hereby imposed on the retail sale in the County of all
alcoholic beverages. Such tax is to be paid by the purchaser, and nothing in this
article shall be construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of retail or
wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers. This tax shall be levied according to the
following schedule:

(1) Alcoholic beverages other than beer, containing 14 percent or less

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 30

alcohol by volume, a tax at the rate of $0.16 per gallon or the pro
rata portion thereof.

(2) Alcoholic beverages containing more than 14 percent and less
than 20 percent alcohol by volume, a tax at the rate of $0.30 per
gallon or the pro rata portion thereof.

(3) Alcoholic beverages containing 20 percent or more alcohol by
volume, a tax at the rate of $2.00 per gallon or the pro rata portion
thereof.

(4) Beer, a tax at the rate of $0.06 per gallon or the pro rata portion
thereof.

The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax levied
in this article is to be borne by the consumer of the alcoholic beverages.

It shall be deemed a violation of this article for a retail alcoholic
beverage dealer to fail to include the tax imposed in this article in the sale price of
the alcoholic beverage or to otherwise absorb such tax. The tax levied in this
article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Except as provisions are made in this article for the collection of
the tax levied in this article upon the sale of alcoholic beverages in the
possession of retail dealers of alcoholic beverages on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived, the tax levied in this article shall be
collected by each wholesale dealer of alcoholic beverages who sells alcoholic
beverages to a retail dealer of alcoholic beverages doing business in the County.

Any wholesale alcoholic beverage dealer who shall pay the tax
levied by this article to the Department shall collect the tax from any retail
alcoholic beverage dealer to whom the sale of the alcoholic beverages is made,
and any retail alcoholic beverage dealer shall in turn then collect the tax from the
purchaser of the alcoholic beverages. The tax shall be paid to the person
required to collect it as trustee for and on account of the County.

Sec. 74-353. Exceptions.

The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to sales of alcoholic
beverages wherein the purchaser is a passenger on an interstate carrier, nor
shall this tax apply to the extent it would violate the United States Constitution or
the Constitution of the State of Illinois. Further, the tax levied in this article shall
not apply to wine intended for use and used by any church or religious
organization for sacramental purposes, provided that such wine shall be
purchased legally under the laws of Illinois and the United States; but no
exemption from this tax is permitted with respect to wine sold to private persons
for such purposes. Except

Finance Committee Report

. Public Hearing
February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 31

Sec. 74-354. Wholesaler and Retailer Registration.

(at Any wholesaler or any retailer who enoaqes in the business of
sellino alcoholic beverages in the County must reqister with the Department. in
accordance with procedures prescribed by the Department prior enoaqinq in the
business of supplying or selling alcoholic beverages for resale, use or
consumption in the County.

Wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers shall file each month with
the Department a report of sales of alcoholic beverages in such form as
prescribed and furnished by the Department. Such report of sales must be mailed
in sufficient time to be postmarked on or before the 15th day from the last day of
the month for which the return is due. Each report of sales of alcoholic beverages
shall be accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable
to the sales reported. The remittance shall be made payable to the County
Collector. Reoistered wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers must file a 
return even if no tax is due.

to] Retail alcoholic beveraoe dealers shall file each month with the
Department beqinninq inventory, purchases. sales. and endinq inventory
information on forms prescribed and furnished by the Department on or before
the 20th day of the month followino the month for which the forms are due.

A retail alcoholic beverages dealer who receives alcoholic
beveraoes upon which no tax has been collected by the distributor or supplier
shall remit the tax directly to the Department within 30 days of the receipt of such
alcoholic beverages.

The tax required in this article to be collected by any wholesale or
retail alcoholic beverages dealer pursuant to this article shall constitute a debt
owed by the wholesale or retail alcoholic beveraoes dealer to the County.





SeeJ4?355?Rulemaieing moved to 74-362.

Sec. 74-355 Additional to other taxes.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 32

The tax imposed bv this arlicle is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the Government of the United States. the State. or bv anv unit of local

government.
8e644?3564eizure-and?sale moved to 74-358.

Sec. 74-356 Documents: Books; Records.

it shall be the duty of everv wholesale and retail alcoholic
beverage dealer to keep and maintain accurate documents. books and records
used to process taxable and nontaxable sales and purchase transactions from
start to completion, and make them available for inspection. audit, or cepvinc
durinq reqular business hours.

{bl Documents. books and records shall be kept. by wholesale and
retail alcoholic beverages dealers, as provided in Cook Code of Ordinances.
Article Ill Sec 34-60. Uniform Penalties. Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

moved to Sec 74-359.
Sec. 74-357 Tax assessment penalties and interest.

Cook County Code of Ordinances. Article lli. Chapter 34. Uniform
Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance shall apply to violations of this


moved to Sec 74-360.
Sec 74-358 Seizures.

Whenever any duly authorized representative of the Department
discovers any alcoholic beverages subject to the tax levied in this article and
upon which the tax has not been paid in accordance with provisions of this
article. such representative is hereby authorized and empowered forthwith to
seize and take possession of such alcoholic beverages, which shall be deemed
to be forfeited to the County. Such seizure shall not be deemed to relieve anv
person from fine or imprisonment provided in this articte for violation of anv
provision of this article.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 33

. . Fll' l' 
Sec 74-359 Violation Penalties.

person determined to have violated this articie, as amended, shall be
subject to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense. and a fine of $2,000.00 for the
second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each dav upon which said person shall continue any such
violation, or permit anv such violation to exist after notification thereof. it shall be
deemed a violation of this article for anv person to knowindlv furnish false or
inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this
article shall in no wav bar the right of the Couniv to institute civil proceedinos to
recover delinquent taxes. interest and penalty due and owino as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-358.

Sec 74-360 Additional to other taxes

The tax imposed by this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the Government of the United States, the State, or by any unit of local
government.

Sec. 74-361 Application of Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article or whenever this
chapter is silent, the provisions of the uniform penalties, interest and procedures
ordinanceg Article Ill. Chapter 34 0f the Cook Countv Code of Ordinances shall
and supplement this Article.

Sec 74-362 Rulemaking

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and
regulations to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such rules,
definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable
procedures consistent with existing practices in the wholesale and retail liquor
industry, for collection and remittance of the tax levied in this article upon the
consumer of alcoholic beverages.

The Department may appoint wholesale dealers of alcoholic
beverages and any other person within or without the County as agents for the
tax herein levied. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a commission
not exceeding one-half of one percent of the tax due to the County to such agent
for services rendered in connection with the tax levied in this article, provided the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 34

tax is remitted, in full, by the due date.

If any business selling liquor at the retail level shall receive liquor
upon which no tax has been collected by the distributor or supplier, then the retail
operator shall collect such tax and remit it directly to the Department within 30
days of the receipt of such liquor.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved approval of the
Proposed Amendment to the Retail Sale of Alcoholic Beverages Tax Ordinance
(Communication No. 310966). Prior to a vote on the main motion, Commissioner
Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved to amend the main motion by
approval of Amendment A to Communication 'No. 310966. The motion carried, and
Communication No. 310966 was amended, as follows:

AMENDMENT A TO COMMUNICATION NUMBER 310966
(Changes are in W)

Sponsored by:

THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA,
ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,

ROBERT B. STEELE, AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 74-354. Wholesaler and Retailer Registration.

Any wholesaler who enqaqes in the business of sellinq alcoholic beveraqes
in the County must reqister with the Department, in accordance with procedures prescribed by
the Department prior enqaqinq in the business of supplyinq or selling alcoholic beyeraqes for
resale, use or consumption in the County.

Wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers shall file each month with the Department a report of
sales of alcoholic beverages in such form as prescribed and furnished by the Department. Such
report of sales must be mailed in sufficient time to be postmarked on or before the 15th day
from the last day of the month for which the return is due. Each report of sales of alcoholic
beverages shall be accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to
'the sales reported. The remittance shall be made payable to the County Collector. Registered
wholesale alcoholic beverage dealers must ?le a return even if no tax is due.

 

 

(as) A retail alcoholic beveraqes dealer who receives alcoholic beveraqes upon which no tax
has been collected by the distributor or supplier shall remit the tax directly to the Department
within 30 days of the receipt of such alcoholic beveraqes.

(ed) The tax reguired in this article to be collected by any wholesale erziat? alcoholic

beveraqes dealer pursuant to this article shall constitute a debt owed by the wholesale a?eeta?
alcoholic beveraqes dealer to the County.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 35

let 
Whe?epa?me?o??mnue

Sec. 74-356 Documents; Books; Records.

It shall be the duty of every wholesale Malcoholic beverade dealer to keep and
maintain accurate documents, books and records used to process taxable and nontaxable sales
and purchase transactions from start to completion. and make them available for inspection,
audit, or copvinq durinq reqular business hours.

Documents, books and records shall be kept. by wholesale alcoholic beverages
dealers. as provided in Cook Code of Ordinances. Article Sec Penalties,
Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Steele, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310966), as amended.
Commissioner Suffredin called for a roll call, the Vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Retail Sale of
Alcoholic Beverages Tax Ordinance, as Amended (Communication No. 310966)

Yeas: Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Murphy,
Reyes, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (12)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Goslin (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Retail Sale of Alcoholic
Beverages Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310966), as amended, was approved and
adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310967, for
consideration.

310967 AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY NEW VEHICLE AND TRAILER TAX
ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President,
Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin
Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski,
County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

COOK COUNTY SALES OF NEW MOTOR VEHICLE AND TRAILER TAX
ORDINANCE

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 36

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant
to Article VII, Section 6(3) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners adopted an Ordinance to provide for a tax on the retail sale of
new motor vehicles and trailers ("Retail Sale of New Motor Vehicle and Trailer
Tax Ordinance?) on January 1, 1972 and has adopted subsequent amendments;
and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Cook
Department of Revenue (Department) seeks to clarify enforcement significant
language definitions by amending Section 74-231; and collection of the tax by
amending Section 74-232; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to clarify filing tax remittances and returns by amending Section 74-235;
and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks the consistent application of violation penalties by amending Section 74-
238.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 74, Article VI, of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-230. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County New
Motor Vehicle and Trailer Excise Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-231. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

 

Department means the Department of Revenue of the County.

Mobile Home means a large trailer, fitted with parts for connection to
utilities, that can be installed on a relativelv permanent site and that is used as a
residence

Motor vehicie means every vehicle which is self-propelled and every
vehicle which is propelled bv electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires
but not operated upon rails, inciudinq but not limited to aircraft, watercraft, cars,

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 37

trucks or other similar vehicles; the term motor vehicle does not include vehicles
moved solely by human power. motorized wheelchairs, low-speed electric
bicycles. and low-speed qas bicycles.

 

New Motor vehicle dealer means any person who. in the ordinary course
of business. is engaged in the business of selling. at a location in Cook Countyg
new motor vehicles to consumers or other end users.

 

Person means any individual. corporation. Limited Liability Corporation.
organization. government. governmental subdivision or aoencv. business trust.
estate. trust. partnership, association and any other legal entity.

Pole trailer means every vehicle without motive power designed to be
drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach
or pole. or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles.
pipes or structural members capable generally of sustaining themselves as
beams between the supporting connection.

Purchaser means. means any person who. through a sale at retail.
acquires the ownership of or title to tangible personal property

Retail sale means any transfer for valuable consideration of the
ownership of or title to tangible personal property to a consumer or end user.

 

Semi-trailer means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than
a pole trailer. designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.

Tax collector means any new motor vehicle dealer selling. at location in
Cook County, new motor vehicles to consumers or other end users.

Trailer means every vehicle with or without motive power. other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 38

vehicle.

Truck means every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily
for the transportation of property.

Truck tractor means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part
of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn. For the purposes of this article,
trailers or semi-trailers designed with shipping weights of 1,000 pounds or under
shall be taxed on the sale thereof at a rate of $7.50 per vehicle.

Sec. 74-232. Tax imposed.

A tax is hereby imposed on the retail sale in the County of new motor
vehicles and trailers. The tax shall be collected by the tax collector, as described
in this article, from the purchaser The ultimate incidence of and liability for
payment of the tax is on the purchaser, and nothing in this article shall be
construed to impose a tax upon the occupation of motor vehicle dealers.

 

Tax rates

3 l'l l' lfll'
sehedale:

(1 Sale of a two-wheel motor vehicle, $7.50.
(2) Sale of a three-wheel motor vehicle, $11.25.
(3) Sale of a four?wheel motor vehicle, $15.00.

(4) Sale of a truck, truck tractor, trailer, semi-trailer or pole trailer as
defined in this article, $22.50.

(0) Failure to pay. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for a
dealer to fail to add the tax imposed in this article to the sale price of a motor
vehicle or to otherwise absorb such tax.

The tax imposed by this article shall, when collected, be stated as a
distinct item separate and apart from the selling price of tangible personal
property; and, the tax collector when collecting the tax shall give to the purchaser
a receipt for such tax in the manner and form prescribed by the Department.
Such receipt shall be sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further liability for

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 39

the tax to which such receipt may refer.
Sec. 74-233. Exceptions

The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to sales of motor vehicles
wherein:

(1) The purchaser is any governmental body or private corporation,
society, foundation, or other institution organized and operated
exclusively for charitable, religious, or educational purposes;

(2) The purchaser is an interstate carrier for hire and the subject
vehicle is purchased for use as rolling stock moving in interstate
commerce;

(3) Such sale is made to a person who is not a resident of the State if
such motor vehicle is not to be titled in the State and if a drive-
away decal permit is issued to such motor vehicle as provided in
625 ILCS (operation of vehicles under special plates).
The issuance of the drive-away plate shall be prima facie evidence
that such motor vehicle will not be titled in the State;

(4) The subject motor vehicle is a farm tractor, riding lawn mower, fork
lift truck, mini-bike, snowmobile, or off-the-road motor vehicle used
for competitive racing, which under the laws of the State requires
no lights or license;

(5) The subject motor vehicle is sold to persons for use outside the
State and is registered or titled in a state other than Illinois.

Sec. 74-234. New motor vehicle dealer registration.

New motor vehicle dealers. as described in this article, shall register with
the Department prior to commencing business. It shall be unlawful to conduct
business in Cook County as a new motor vehicle dealer prior to obtaining a Cook
County Department of Revenue Sales of New Motor Vehicle certificate of tax

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 40

Sec 74-235 Tax remittance and returns.

Every new motor vehicle dealer shall file. on forms prescribed_by
the Department. a remittance return and remit all taxes due on or before the 20??
day of the month followinq the month for which the tax is due Every new motor
vehicle dealer shall file a return even when no tax is due.

Final return; remittance. Any new motor vehicle who
ceases to enqaqe in the business of makinq retail sales of new motor vehicles
shall file a final return under this article with the Department not later than one
calendar month after makinq the last sale at retail. All taxes due to be paid to the
County shall be remitted to the County at the time the final return is filed with the

Department.

(cl New motor vehicle dealer Annual Return. New motor vehicle dealers
shall ?le an annual information return, on forms prescribed by the Department, on
the last day of the month followinthhe year for which the return is due. Such
annual return shall include a statement of beqinninq inventory. purchases, sale_si
endinq inventory. and receipts as shown on the retailer's State income tax return.
The tax collector?s annual return to the Department shall also disclose such
additional reasonable information as the Department shall require to enable the
Department to determine the accuracy of any periodic return filed by such tax
collector as provided by this section.

Sec. 74-236 Books and records to be kept.

It shall be the duty of all new motor vehicle dealers to keep and maintain
all books. papers and records related to all transactions taxable or non-taxable
under this article and to make such records available to the Director on request
for inspection. audit andior copyinq durinq reqular business hours. Books.
papers and records which relate to a return filed or required to be filed with the
Department shall be kept for a period as provided for in the Cook County Uniform
Penaltiesi Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

Sec 74-237 New motor vehicle dealer liable.

The new motor vehicle dealer shall be liable to the County for the amount
of tax that it is required to collect; and. shall collect the tax from purchasers by
addinq the tax to the sellinq price of tanqible personal property, when sold. in the
manner prescribed by this article and the Department. lf any new motor vehicle
collects more from the purchaser than the actual tax due on the transaction. the
purchaser shall have a leqal riqht to claim a refund of such amount from such the
new motor vehicle dealer. However, if such amount is not refunded to the
purchaser for any reason, the new motor vehicle dealer is liable to pay such

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 41

amount to the Department.

Sec 74-238 Penalties.

 

Any person determined to have violated this article. as amended. shall be
subiect to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense. and a fine of $2,000.00 for the
second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such
violation, or permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this article for any person knowingly to furnish false or
inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this
article shall in no way her the riuht of the County to institute civil proceedings to
recover delinquent taxes. interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs
incurred for such proceeding.

 

 

Sec 74-239 Additional to other taxes.

 

The tax imposed by this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the government of the United States, the State, or any unit of local government.

Sec 74-240 Application of uniform penalties. interest and procedures.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever
this article is silent. the provisions of Chapter 34. Article Uniform Penalties
Interest and Procedures Ordinance. shall and supplement this article.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310967). Commissioner Beavers
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 42

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the New Motor Vehicle
and Trailer Excise Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310967)

Yeas: Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and Tobolski (11)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, Reyes and Schneider (4)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the New Motor Vehicle and Trailer
Excise Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310967) was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310968, for
consideration.

310968 AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY PARKING GARAGE AND OPERATIONS TAX
ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed
Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President, Jerry Butler, John P.
Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B.
Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY PARKING GARAGE AND OPERATIONS TAX ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to
Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of Commissioners
adopted an Ordinance to provide for a Parking Garage and Operations Tax on January 1,
2001;and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Department Revenue (Department) in the interest of fair
and equitable enforcement seeks to clarify significant enforcement language by
amending Section 74-511; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department seeks to
consistently apply the tax to valet parking operators that park motor vehicles at a parking
lot or garage by amending Sections 74-512 and 74-513 respectively; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department seeks to
clarify the types of books or records to be maintained by amending Section 74-514; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to clarify parked vehicle ticket, tag and receipt
enforcement criteria by amending Section 74-515; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of increasing revenue collections, the Department

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 43

seeks to eliminate the 1% tax collector commission by amending Section 74?516; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks the uniform application of violation fines, by amending
Section 74-519.

NOW THEREFORE be it ordained, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that
Chapter 74, Article of the Cook County Code of Ordinances is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 74-510. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Parking Lot and
Garage Operations Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-511. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:

Department or Department of Revenue means the County Department of
Revenue.

Motor Vehicle means any vehicle that is self-propelled.

Operator means any person conducting the operation of a parking lot or garage,
as defined by this article, or receiving consideration for parking or storage of motor
vehicles at a parking place within Cook County.

Parking lot or garage means any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other
place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, within the County, where four or
more motor vehicles are stored, housed or parked for hire, charge, fee or other valuable
consideration in a condition ready for use, or where rent or compensation is paid to the
owner, manager or lessee of the premises for the housing, storing, sheltering, keeping or
maintaining of such motor vehicles.

Person means any individual. corporation. Limited Liability Corporation.
organization. government, governmental subdivision or agency, business trust. estate.
trust, partnership. association and any other legal entity.

Valet Parking Operator means a person who employs one or more attendants for
the purpose of providing a vaiet parking service or who contracts his own servicesLbut
not in the capacity of employee, to any business establishment, for the purpose of
p_rovidino a valet parking service to such establishment located in Cook County.

1Lr?aiet Parking Service means a parking service provided to accommodate patrons
of anv business establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the
establishment and by which an attendant on behalf of the establishment takes temporary
custody of the patrons' motor vehicle and moves. parks. stores or retrieves the vehicle for

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 44

the patrons? convenience.
Sec. 74-512. Tax imposed.

A tax is imposed upon the use and privileoe of parkinq a motor vehicle in
or upon any parkinq lot or qaraoe in the County. The tax shall be collected bv operators
and valet parkinq operators. as described in this article. from anv person who seeks the
privileqe of occupvinq space in or upon any parkinq lot or qaraqe.

 

       


9339(9-

Valet Parkinq Operators are required to collect and remit the tax imposed
bv this article. for each motor vehicle parked at a Perkinq Lot or Garaoe. as described in
this article; however the valet parkinq operator is not ?uired to collect or remit the tax if
the Vatet Parkino Operator pave the tax to the OperatoLwho shall remit the tax to the

Department.

IABEELNSEIL:

to) Tax rates

Parking

Charge or Fee Imposed by Operator Tax Amount
Time Period

24 hours or less $3.00 or Less $0.00
24 hours or less $3.01 to $4.99 $0 .50
24 hours or less $5.00 to $11.00 $0.75
24 hours or less $12.00 or more 1.00
Weekly $15.00 or less $00.00
Weekly $15.01 to $24.99 2.50
Weekly $25.00 to $59.99 $3.75
Weekly $60.00 or more $5.00
$60.00 or less $00.00
$60.01 to $99.99 $10.00
$100.00 to $239.00 $15.00

$240.00 or more $20.00

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 45

@939 The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on the
person who seeks the privilege of occupying space in or upon the parking lot or garage.

Lg) The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to:

(1) Residential off-street parking of house or apartment or condominium
occupants, wherein an arrangement for parking is provided in the house or
apartment lease in a written agreement between the landlord and tenant;

Residential parking provided for condominium occupants pursuant to a
written agreement between the condominium association and the owner,
occupant or guest of a unit owner, whether the parking charge is payable
to the landlord, condominium association, or to the operator of the parking
lot or garage; or

(3) To hospital and medical center employees parking at a parking lot or
garage where the hospital or medical center is the employer and, as
described in this article, operator.

 

The amount of the tax due under this article shall be computed exclusive
of any Federal, State or municipal taxes imposed.

Sec. 74-513. Registration.

Every operator and valet parking operator shall obtain a parking tax certi?cate of
registration from the Department prior to the first date of commencing business.
Application for registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.

 

Sec. 74-514. Maintenance of records.

It shall be the duty of every operator to keep accurate and complete books
and records to which the Director of Revenue shall, at all times, have full access. These
books and records shall include all cash register or other receipts required by this article,
all tickets and voided tags, and a daily sheet for each location showing:

(1) The number of motor vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage,
segregated on a daily, weekly, or other basis, and also
segregated by the amount of the charge or fee imposed for parking; and

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 46

(2) The actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all parking
transactions.

(3) Any other oriqinal source documents and books of entry denoting the
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability,
exemption or deduction or defense to liability

All books and records required by this section shall be retained for not less
than four years after the end of the calendar year in which they are created; provided,
however, that an operator on an annual basis may request approval from the Director of
Revenue to discard tickets or tags that were issued more than one year earlier, and the
Director shall grant approval if the director determines that the operator's books and
records satisfy the requirements of this article.

Sec. 74-515 Tickets; tags; receipt?s.

Daily Parker Tickets. It shall be the duty of every operator to issue to all
persons seeking the privilege of parking a motor vehicle on a daily basis a distinctive
ticket in the form and manner provided by this section. Tickets shall be issued by the
operator in numerical sequence.

Daily Parker Ticket Detail. Each ticket issued by an operator shall indicate
the name of the operator and the address of the parking lot or garage upon or in which
the motor vehicle is parked. Unless the parking lot or garage is equipped with an
automated ticket dispenser which triggers the opening of a gate, tickets shall consist of
three parts; one part shall be issued by the operator to the recipient, one part shall be
retained by the operator, who shall indicate on the back thereof the time of arrival and
departure of the motor vehicle, and one part shall be attached to the parked motor
vehicle for the purpose of identification. All three-part tickets shall contain the same serial
number on each part of the ticket.

to) Valet Parking tickets. All valet parkinq attendants must, upon taking
custody of a patron's Motor Vehicle, for the purpose of parkinq such Motor Vehicle in or
upon any Parking Lot or Garage, issue a distinctive ticket in the form and manner
provided by this section, such tickets or receipts shall be issued in numerical sequence.

Valet Parkinq ticket detail. Each ticket issued by the valet parkinq
operator shall indicate the name, address and telephone number of the company
providing the valet service, the time and date the valet parkinq operator took custody of
the vehicle, and the licensemlate number of the vehicle. Prior to returning custody of the
vehicle to each customer the valet parkinq attendant must time stamp the ticket with the
time, date the valet parkinq operator surrendered custody of the vehicle, and indicate the
amount of tax paid.

Weekly; parkinq taqs.
Every operator shall require a tag to be attached to each motor vehicle

that is permitted to park on a weekly or basis, or other basis longer than one
day. Each tag shall show the name of the operator and address of the parking lot or

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 47

garage upon? or in which the motor vehicle parked; an identification number; the number
and issuing state of the license plate of the parked motor vehicle; and whether the motor
vehicle is parked on a weekly or or other basis longer than one day, indicating
starting and ending dates of the week, month or other period. Tags shall be issued by the
operator in numerical sequence.

Ta Book.

The operator shall keep a book record of all tags issued, showing each
tag's date of issuance, identification number and parking charge imposed. The operator
shall remove, or cause to be removed, and shall void each tag at the end of the week,
month or other applicable period, and shall cause a new tag to be attached to the motor
vehicle at the beginning of each new period.

(I) Parking receipts.

It shall be the duty of every operator and valet parking operator to issue a
receipt to all persons seeking the privilege of parking a motor vehicle on a daily basis.
The receipt shall indicate the parking charge paid and the amount of tax paid. The
operator shall maintain records showing the number of motor vehicles parked, the total
charges paid and the amount of tax collected for each range of parking charges
described in Section 74?512.

Sec. 74-516. Tax remittance and returns.

Every operator and valet parking operator shall file, on forms prescribed
by the Department, a remittance return and remit all taxes due on or before the 20th day
of the month following the month for which the tax is due Every goerator and valet
parking operator shall ?le a return even when no tax is due.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 48


Sec. 74-517. Fines.

 

Any person determined to have violated this article. as amended, shall be subiect
to a fine of $1,000.00 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the second and
each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed
each clay upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be deemed a violation of this article for
anyr person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the Department.
Criminal prosecution pursuant to this article shall in no way bar the right of the County to
institute civil proceedings to recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owmg
as well as costs incurred for such mceedinq.

 

 

 

Sec 74-518. Rules and Regulations.

The Director of Revenue is authorized to adopt, promulgate and enforce rules and
regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this article.

Sec Application of uniform penalties, interest and procedures.
Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this article or whenever this
article is silent, the provisions of chapter 34, article Ill, Uniform Penalties, Interest and

Procedures Ordinance, shall apply and supplement this article.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2/1/11.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310968). Commissioner Beavers
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Yeas:

Nays:

Absent:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Parking Lot
and Garage Operations Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310968)

Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (12)

Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)

Commissioners Butler, Fritchey, and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendmentto the Parking Lot and Garage
Operations Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310968) was approved and adopted.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 49

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310969, for

consideration.

310969

AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFORM PENALTIES, INTEREST AND
PROCEDURES ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle,
President, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy,
Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R.
Tobolski, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

 

UNIFORM PENALTIES, INTEREST AND PROCEDURES ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant
to Article VII, section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners adopted the ?Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance" on December 1, 1992 and has adopted subsequent amendments;
and

WHEREAS, the ?Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance"
provides supplemental uniform Home Rule Tax enforcement policies and
procedures; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Revenue (Department) seeks to
clarify the application of this ordinance, significant definitions, tax collector duties,
by amending Section 34-61, 34?62, and Section 34-63, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to enhance fair and equitable enforcement
penalties applied to failure of a tax collector to file a return when no tax is due;
incomplete tax returns or remittances by amending Section 34-72, 34-73 and 34-
74, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks reimbursement from Home Rule Tax violators
for additional collection or legal costs or processing costs incurred by amending
Section 34?90; and.

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to enhance voluntary compliance by the
inclusion of its on-?going Home Rule Tax Voluntary Disclosure Program in this
ordinance by amending Section 34-93; and implement a Home Rule Tax
enforcement Tip Line by amending Section 34-95.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook Count Code of Ordinances, Article Chapter 34,
Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance, Section 34-60 34-96 is
hereby amended as follows:

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 50

ARTICLE UNIFORM PENALTIES, INTEREST AND PROCEDURES.
Sec. 34-60. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Uniform Penalties,
Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

Sec 34- 61 Application; tax ordinances and franchise fees.

This article shall supplement all other County tax ordinances
administered by the Cook County Department of Revenue

All of the provisions of this article are applicable to the collection of
franchise fees payable pursuant to chapter 78, article ll of this Code, Cable
Television.

{19919) Provisions of this article shall apply to the extent that they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of other applicable ordinances and to the extent
other ordinances are silent.

Sec. 34-62. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

Department or Department of Revenue means the Cook County
Department of Revenue.

Director or Director of Revenue means the Director of Revenue of the
County.

Franchise fee means any cable television franchise fee payable to the
County pursuant to chapter 90, article II of this Code.

Hearing of?cer means an administrative law officer or administrative law
judge appointed by the Director of the Department of Administrative Hearings, to
conduct hearings and to make final determination regarding taxpayer or tax
collector petitions and protests as to any issue arising under the provisions of this
article or under any other ordinance that imposes a fee or tax administered by the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 51

Department.

Person means anv individual, corporation, limited liability corporation,
orqanization. qovernment, governmental subdivision or aqencv, business trust,

Processinq Fee means all costs. incurred by the Department associated
with the Department?s effort to search for or obtain information required to
process incomplete or incorrect payment documents, remittance forms, tax
returns, or other similar documents received from tax collectors, taxpayers or
other Countv debtors.

Tax means any sum, other than interest, penalties or fines, payable
pursuant to a tax ordinance administered by the Department.

Tax collector means any person required to collect and remit any tax
payable to the Department.

Tax ordinance means any ordinance passed by the County Board that
imposes a fee or tax administered by the Department.

Tax remittance means all tax monies collected from taxpayers by a tax
collector which are required to be paid to the Department.

Taxpayer means any person required to pay any tax and upon whom the
legal incidence of the tax is placed.

Sec. 34-63. Tax as debt; books and records: duty to produce documents;
burden of proof.

Tax as debt.

Any tax required to be collected by any tax collector under any tax
ordinance and any tax in fact collected by a tax collector shall be collected in trust
for the County and shall constitute a debt owed by the tax collector to the County.

Maintaininq books and records.

Every taxpayer and tax collector shall keep accurate books and records of its
business or activity, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax
liability, exemption or deduction or defense to liability. Books and records and
other papers relating to transactions which occurred during any period with
respect to which the Department is authorized to issue notices of tax liability as

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 52

provided by Sections 34-64, 34-65 and 34-75 shall be preserved until the
expiration of such period unless the Department, in writing, authorizes their
destruction or disposal prior to such expiration. All those books and records shall
be kept in the English language and, at all times during business hours, shall be
subject to and available for inspection or copying by the Department.

(0) Duty to produce documents.

{39(1) If, during an audit or investigation, any taxpayer or tax collector
fails to make its books and records available for inspection by the
Department, the Director may serve written notice by United
States registered or certified mail or by personal service on the
person being audited or investigated to produce the requested
documents within 45 days from the date the notice is served. The
Director may extend the 45-day time limit.

(991;) if, the taxpayer or tax collector fails to provide the documents
requested in Subsection of this section within the required
time: 

La) The Director may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the best estimate of the person's tax liability; or

(Q) The Director may issue a subpoena requiring the
attendance of any person having personal knowledge of any relevant facts and
may issue subpoenas duces tecum for? the production of books, records, papers
or memoranda. In addition, the Director may issue a citation for each day beyond
the 45-day time limit, or extension thereof, that the documents are not tendered
and may request the State's Attorney to bring, or cause to be brought, an action
to impose fines for disobeying or refusing to comply with request made under this
section. Fines shall be as provided for in Section 34-92.

(cl) Burden of proof.

It shall be presumed that any tax, interest or penalty assessed by the
Director is due and owing until the contrary is established. The person assessed
has the burden of proving with documentary evidence, books and records that
any tax, interest or penalty assessed by the Director is not due and owing.

Sec 34-64. General Powers.

In addition to the powers provided in other tax ordinances, the
Director may adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations pertaining to
the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and any tax
ordinance.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 53

The Director:

(1) May correct or amend any tax return or remittance return at any
time.

(2) Is authorized to determine and assess any tax, interest or penalty
due under this article, or under any tax ordinance, and may amend a tax
determination and assessment at any time before it becomes final. Any tax
determination and assessment, or amended tax determination and assessment,
shall be deemed prima facie correct and the burden shall be on the person
assessed to prove the contrary.

The Department is authorized to examine the books and records
of any taxpayer or tax collector during business hours to verify the accuracy of
any return made or, if no return was made, then to ascertain and assess the tax
imposed by any tax ordinance.

in the course of any audit, investigation or other inquiry, the
Director may require any taxpayer or tax collector to file information on a form
prescribed and furnished by the Department.

The Director may provide by rule for a conference between a
taxpayer or tax collector and a representative of the Department to be held after
the audit of the taxpayer or tax collector is completed, but before the Tax Director
issues a tax determination and assessment.

The Director may compromise all disputes in connection with any
tax, interest or penalty due or any tax, interest or penalty assessed.

Sec. 34-65. Power to issue assessments.

The Director may determine and assess the amount of any tax due and
unpaid, together with applicable interest and penalties, if it appears that:

(1) A person has violated any provision of this article, or any tax
ordinance, or any rule or regulation promulgated under this article or any tax
ordinance;

(2) The amount of any tax payment or remittance is incorrect because
it does not include all taxes due and owing;

(3) Delay will jeopardize the collection of any accrued taxes that are
not yet due or payable, and the Director declares these taxes to be immediately
due and payable;

(4) The Director has made any final assessment which did not include
all taxes, interest and penalties payable for the periods involved; or

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 54

(5) Any person by reason of any act or omission, or by operation of
law, has become liable for the payment of any taxes, interest or penalties not
originally incurred by that person.

.3166Sec. 34-66 Application of payment.

Any payment or remittance received for a tax period will be applied first to
penalties for the period, then to interest due for the period, and then to the tax
due for the period.

Sec. 34-67 Interest.

If a tax ordinance does not impose an interest charge for late
payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax imposed by the ordinance, an
interest charge of 1.25 percent per month, or fraction thereof, shall apply to any
late tax payment or tax remittance or unpaid or un?remitted tax liability.

Notwithstanding Subsection of this section, if the Department
requests and obtains a taxpayer's or tax collector's written consent to extend the
time to initiate or complete an audit of the taxpayer's or tax collector's books and
records beyond the date when the statute of limitations would run on the
Department's right to issue a tax determination and assessment, no interest shall
accrue from the date written consent is received by the Department to the date
the Department issues the notice of tax determination and assessment.

(0) Notwithstanding Subsection of this section, if a hearing is held
pursuant to Section 34?95 34-80 in connection with a tax determination and
assessment, and the director does not issue a final assessment within 90 days of
the latest of the following:

(1) The conclusion of the hearing;

(2) The latest date (including extensions) on which any motion, brief
or memorandum became due;

(3) The latest date on which the protesting party filed any motion, brief
or memorandum; or

(4) The date on which the transcript of the hearing is delivered to the
Department, no interest shall accrue on the tax liability from the
end of the applicable 90-day period to the date that the Director
issues the final assessment.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 55

Sec 34-68 Late penalties.

If a tax ordinance does not impose a penalty for late filing of a tax
return or remittance return required by the ordinance and the return is not filed
within the time or in the manner provided by the ordinance, a late filing penalty
equal to ten percent of the total tax due applies for the period for which the return
is being filed. This penalty does not apply if the failure to file penalty provided by
Section 34-82 applies.

If a tax ordinance does not impose a penalty for late payment or
remittance of the tax imposed by the ordinance and the tax is not paid or remitted
within the time provided by this article, a late payment or remittance penalty
equal to ten percent of the tax due and not timely paid or remitted applies.
However, this penalty does not apply if a late filing penalty as provided in
Subsection of this section applies.

(0) If the Director determines that the taxpayer or tax collector had
reasonable cause for any of the following:

(1) Paying late;

(2) Remitting late;

(3) Underpaying the applicable tax;

(4) Filing a late or incomplete tax return; or

(5) Filing a late or incomplete remittance return, the applicable penalty
shall be waived.

.3169. an ii El I.
Sec 34-69 Failure to file penalty.

If a tax ordinance does not impose a penalty for failure to file a tax remittance
return required by the ordinance and no return is filed prior to the Department
issuing a notice of tax deficiency or a notice of tax liability to the taxpayer or tax
collector, a failure to file penalty equal to 25 percent of the total tax due for the
applicable reporting period applies, unless the Director determines that the failure
to file a return was due to reasonable cause. This penalty may apply in addition
to any late payment or remittance penalty provided by Section 

Sec 34-70 Neqliqence or willfulness penalty.

If a tax ordinance does not impose a penalty for negligent or willful
failure to pay or remit the tax imposed by the ordinance. a penalty equal to 25

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 56

percent of the tax due and unpaid applies if the taxpayer or tax collector
negligently or knowingly failed to pay or remit the tax.

This penalty may apply in addition to any late penalty provided by
Section 34-68, but will not apply if a failure to file penalty as provided by Section
34?69 applies.

Sec. 34-71 Failure to remit collected taxes jenalt .
If a tax collector:
(1) Collects any tax imposed by any tax ordinance; and

(2) Knowingly fails to remit the tax collected to the Department before
the Department issues a notice of tax deficiency or notice of tax
liability, a penalty equal to 50 percent of the total tax collected and
not remitted applies, unless the Director determines that the failure
to remit collected taxes was due to reasonable cause.

This penalty may apply in addition to the failure to file penalty
provided by Section 34-82 or, if the tax collector negligently or willfully failed to
remit the tax, this penalty applies in addition to the negligence or willfulness
penalty provided by Section 34-83.

For any tax liability to which the failure to remit collected taxes
penalty applies, the late penalties provided by Section do not apply.

Sec 34-72. Failure to file no liability return penalty.
If a registered tax collector fails to file a return and the Department issues a

notice of tax delinquency but subsequently determines no tax is due, a penalty of
$200.00 shall apply.

5 ?113. 0' Fl' 
Sec 34-73. Incomplete; Incorrect return or remittance penalty.

For Tax Collectors who file an incomplete or incorrect tax return or remittance
document, a penalty of $200.00 shall apply.

.3111. . I Fl'l'l'l.
Sec. 34-74. ProcessingFees.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 57

A processinq fee, as described in Sec 34-62 of this Article, in the amount of
$25.00. shall apply to each incomplete or incorrect remittance documents
we

Sec 34-75. Non sufficient check provision.

If payment or remittance of any tax is made by check and if the financial
institution on which the check is drawn refuses to honor the check, it shall be
treated as if no tax payment or remittance was made and, in addition, a non
sufficient funds check processing fee in an amount provided by rule applies. This
fee shall be in addition to any fine, penalties or interest provided by this article or
any tax ordinance.

Sec. 34-76. Reasonable cause standards.

The Director may promulgate standards for determining reasonable cause. If the
Director does not promulgate standards, the reasonable cause determination
shall be made by applying the reasonable cause criteria of the United States
Internal Revenue Service, as these standards may be amended.

Sec. 34-77. Statute of Limitations.

Except as otherwise provided in Subsections and of this
section, the Director shall not issue any notice of tax determination and
assessment for any period more than seven years after the end of the calendar
year in which the return for the period was filed with the Department or the end of
the calendar year in which the return for the period was due, whichever is later.

No statute of limitations applies where:

(1) A fraudulent tax return or remittance return was filed;

(2) No tax return or remittance return was filed;

(3) No tax payment or tax remittance was paid or if a payment or

remittance was made, the amount paid or remitted was less than
75 percent of the tax due; or

(4) The person agrees to waive the applicable statute of limitations.

(0) If for any tax, during any seven-year period for which the Director
may issue a notice of tax determination and assessment, the tax paid or remitted

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 58

was less than 75 percent of the tax due for that period, no statue of limitations
applies to that tax and the Director may issue a notice of tax determination and
assessment for any and all past periods.

If an amended return was filed for any tax period, the seven-year
period shall commence at the end of the calendar year in which the amended
return was filed. However, the Department shall not issue a notice of tax
determination more than six years after the original return was filed.

This time limitation on the issuance of notices of tax determination
and assessment shall apply only to returns filed or payments due after April 1,
1993.

Sec. 34-78. Notice.

Unless otherwise provided, when the Department or the Director is
required to give notice under this article, or under any County tax ordinance,
notice may be given by:

(1) United States registered, certified or first class mail, addressed to
the person concerned at the person's last known address; or

(2) Personal service.

Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, it shall be given not less than seven calendar days prior to the day fixed for
any hearing or the doing of any act by the Department, the Director, or any agent
or employee of the Department.

(0) Any person who is entitled to notice under this article or under any
County tax ordinance, who, after due diligence, cannot be located by the
Department shall be deemed to appoint the County Clerk as agent for the service
of notice or process in any matter arising under this article or under any tax
ordinance. Notice or process shall be served by the Department on the County
Clerk by leaving at the office of the County Clerk, at least 15 days prior to the
event specified in the notice, a true and certified copy thereof, and by sending to
the person by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, a like and true
certified copy, with an endorsement thereof of service on the County Clerk,
addressed to the person's last known address. Service of notice or process in
this manner shall have the same force and validity as if served on the person
personally.

Sec. 34-79 Postmark Rule.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 59

Unless otherwise provided, any notice, payment, remittance or other filing
required to be made with the Department under this article, or under any County
tax ordinance, shall be considered late unless it is either:

(1) Actually received by the Department on or before the due date;

(2) Received in an envelope or wrapper displaying a valid, readable
United States mail postmark dated on or before the due date,
properly addressed to the Department, with adequate postage
prepaid; or

(3) If mailed but not received by the Department, or if received but
without a cancellation mark or with the cancellation mark illegible
or erroneous, if the sender established by competent evidence
that the writing or payment was deposited, properly addressed, in
the United States mail on or before the date on Which it was
required or authorized to be filed or was due. In cases in which the
writing or payment was mailed but not received, the sender must
also file with, or pay to, the Department a duplicate writing or
payment within 30 days after written notification is given by the
Department to the person claiming to have sent the writing or
payment, of its non-receipt of the writing or payment. If a writing or
payment is sent by United States registered mail, certified mail or
certificate of mailing, a record authenticated by the United States
Postal Service of such registration, certification or certificate shall
be considered competent evidence that the writing or payment
was mailed. The date of registration, certification or certificate
shall be deemed the postmarked date.

Sec. 34-80. Right to protest tax determination and assessment.

Any person to whom the Director issues a tax determination and
assessment shall be given written notice of the tax determination and
assessment along with written demand for payment.

The person named in the tax determination and assessment may file with
the Department a written protest and petition for hearing. The written protest and
petition must be ?led within 20 days of mailing the notice of tax determination and
assessment by the Department.

If a timely written protest and petition for hearing is filed, the
Director shall fix the time and place for the hearing and shall give written notice
thereof.

(0) If a written protest and petition for hearing is not ?led within the 20-
day period, the tax determination and assessment shall become a final

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 60

assessment without further notice and without the necessity of a final
assessment being issued the day after the last date for which a protest can be
filed.

In the event that a tax determination and assessment is amended,
the Department shall give the affected person written notice and an opportunity to
be heard with respect to the amendment.

Sec. 34-81. Hearinq procedures.

When a taxpayer or tax collector files a timely written protest and
petition for hearing, the Director shall refer the case to the Department of
Administrative Hearings who shall conduct the hearing. The hearing officer is
authorized to conduct hearings concerning any matter covered by this article or
any tax ordinance administered by the Department and may determine the
factual and legal matters raised by the parties to the hearing. However, the
hearing of?cer shall not hear or decide any claim that any ordinance is
unconstitutional on its face or that the County Board did not have authority to
enact the ordinance.

The hearing officer may:

(1) Examine any books, papers, records or memoranda bearing upon
the business or activities of the taxpayer or tax collector;

(2) Request the Circuit Court to issue subpoenas requiring the
attendance of any person having personal knowledge of any
contested issue;

(3) Request the Circuit Court to issue subpoenas duces tecum for the
production of books, records, papers, or memoranda;

(4) Administer oaths;
(5) Take testimony;
(6) Make rulings as to the admissibility of evidence; and

(7) Take any other action as may be required for the expeditious
conduct of the hearing.

(0) The hearing officer is not bound by the technical rules of evidence.
No informality in any proceeding or in the manner of taking testimony or receiving
evidence shall invalidate any order, decision, ruling or recommendation of the
hearing officer or?decision or final assessment of the Director.



Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 61

The Department's books, papers, records and memoranda or

parts thereof may be proved in any hearing or legal proceeding by the original
documents or by reproduced copy under the certificate of the Director. Without
further proof, the original documents or reproduced copy shall be admissible into
evidence before the Department.

(6)

If the Circuit Court issues a subpoena or a subpoena duces

tecum, the following rules shall apply:

(1)

(2)

(3)



Service shall be made as provided by the Code of Civil Procedure,
(735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.);

Fees of witnesses for attendance and travel shall be the same as
the fees of witnesses before the Circuit Court of Cook County and
shall be paid after the witness is excused from further attendance;

When a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum is issued at the
instance of either party, the hearing officer may require that party
to bear the cost of service and witness fees. The hearing officer
may require a deposit to cover the cost of service and witness
fees.

Any party to a hearing may apply to any judge of the Circuit Court

of this State for enforcement of any subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued
by a hearing of?cer holding a hearing authorized by this article.

(9)
(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

The following provisions shall apply to hearings:

At any hearing held under this article, the tax determination and
assessment shall be prima facie correct and the protesting party
shall have the burden of proving with books, records and other
documentary evidence that is incorrect.

At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a
final assessment.

The protesting party shall be given written notice of the hearing
officer's decision and final assessment. This notice shall contain
the Director's statement of the cost of certifying the record to the
Circuit Court of Cook County, computed at the rate of $0.20 per
page. The party seeking judicial review of the hearing officer's
decision and final assessment shall bear the cost of certification. If
the protesting party prevails on appeal, the Department shall
reimburse that party for cost of certification.

Items constituting the record may include notices and demands;
the initial and any amended tax determinations and assessments;
the written protest and petition for hearing; all relevant pleadings,

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 62

briefs and memoranda of law; evidence admitted at the hearing;
the transcribed testimony given at the hearing; and the decision
and final assessment of the hearing officer.

Nothing in this Ordinance shall limit the powers and duties of the
hearing officers, as authorized by Chapter 2, Article IX of the Cook County Code.

Sec. 34-82. Officer and employee liability.

Any officer or employee of any taxpayer or tax collector who
controls. supervises, or is responsible for filing tax returns or remittance returns
or who is responsible for paying or remitting any tax impOsed by any tax
ordinance, and who willfully fails to file any applicable return or willfully fails to
pay or remit any applicable tax, interest or penalty shall be personally liable for a
penalty equal to all those amounts due and owing.

The personal liability of any person described in Subsection of
.this section shall survive the dissolution of the taxpayer or tax collector.

Sec. 34-83. Determination of officer and employee liability.

The Department shall determine a penalty due under this section
according to its best judgment and information, and that determination shall be
prima facie correct and shall be prime facie evidence of a penalty due under this
section. Proof of such determination by the Department shall be made at any
hearing before it or in any legal proceeding by a reproduced copy of the
Department's record relating thereto in the name of the Department under the
certificate of the Director. The reproduced copy shall, without further proof, be
admitted into evidence before the Department or in any legal proceeding and
shall be prima facie proof of the correctness of the penalty due, as shown
thereon. The Department shall in every case issue a notice of penalty liability for
the amount claimed by the Department pursuant to this section. Procedures for
protest and review of a notice of penalty liability issued under this section and
assessment of the penalty due hereunder shall be the same as those prescribed
for protest and review of a notice of tax liability and the assessment of tax liability
under this article as set forth in Sections 34?65, 34?94 and 34-95. No notice of
penalty liability shall be issued after the expiration of four years after the date all
proceedings in court for the review of any final or revised final assessments
issued against a taxpayer or tax collector which constitute the basis of such
penalty liability have terminated or the time for the taking thereof has expired
without such proceedings being instituted or after the expiration of four years
after the date any return is filed with the Department by a taxpayer or tax
collector in cases where the return constitutes the basis of such liability. Interest
shall accrue on that portion of the penalty imposed by this section which
represents the tax unpaid by the taxpayer or tax collector at the same rate and in

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 63

the same amount as interest accrued on the tax unpaid by the taxpayer or tax
collector.

in addition to any other remedy provided for by the laws of this
State, and provided that no hearing or proceedings for review provided by this
article which is pending, any section of this article which provides a means for
collection of taxes shall in the same manner and to the same extent provide a
means for the collection of the penalty imposed by this section. The procedures
for the filing of an action for collection of the penalty imposed by this section shall
be the same as those prescribed for the filing of an action for collection of the tax
assessed. The time limitation period on the Department's right to bring suit to
recover the amount of tax, or portion thereof, or penalty or incompetent to file a
claim thereof against their estate, shall not run during:

(1) Any period of time in which the order of any court has the effect of
enjoining or restraining the Department from bringing a suit or
claim against the officer or employee;

(2) Any period of time in which the order of any court has the effect of
enjoining or restraining the Department from bringing suit or
initiating other proper proceedings for the collection of those
amounts from the taxpayer or tax collector; or

(3) Any period of time the officer or employee departs from and
remains out of the State; but the foregoing provisions concerning
absence from the State shall not apply to any case in which, at the
time when a tax or penalty becomes due under this division, the
person allegedly liable therefore is not a resident of this State.

Sec. 34-84. Survival of liability. .

If a deceased person owes any tax, penalty, or interest to the County, the
Director may request that a claim against the decedent?s estate be made.

Sec 34-85. Fines.

Any person found guilty of violating, neglecting, disobeying or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this article, or of any tax
ordinance, shall be subject to a fine of 
$20000 $1,000. 00 for the first offense and 
$50000 $2,000. 00 Ofor the second and each subsequent offense. All actions
seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi- c-riminal actions subject
to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/1?101 et seq.).

Any person found guilty of more than three repeated offenses with

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 64

any 180-day period shall, in addition to the fines provided in Subsection of this
section, be subject to punishment by incarceration for a term not to exceed six
months as provided by the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1964 (725 ILCS 5/100-
1 et seq.).

(0) A separate and distinct offense is committed for each day a
person continues any violation or permits any violation to exist, after having
actual notice thereof.

Sec. 34-86. Suit to enforce payment.

If any person fails to pay or remit any tax, interest or penalties, upon
request of the Department, the State's Attorney may bring, or cause to be
brought, an action to enforce payment.

5 .3181. l' 

Sec. 34-87. License suspension and revocation.

Any license, permit, registration or franchise issued by the County
may be suspended or revoked by the issuing authority if it is determined after a
hearing that the licensee, or any person controlled by the licensee, has willfully
failed to pay or remit any tax, interest or penalty due. No license shall be
suspended or revoked under this subsection if, within ten days after the issuance
of a license suspension or revocation order, the total tax liability, including
interest and penalties, is paid.

Written notice of the hearing shall be given to the licensee at the
licensee's last know address not less than seven days before the hearing is to be
held.

(6) No action taken under this section shall release or discharge any
person who is responsible for paying or remitting any tax from civil liability or from
prosecution for any violation of this article or any tax ordinance.

.3188. DI . l' EFF l'l'l'l.

Sec. 34-88. Liens and right to levy.

To secure payment of any final assessment of any tax, interest or
penalty due from a final assessee, the County shall have a lien upon all the real
and personal property of the person assessed, which is located or found within
the County, including all real or personal property acquired after the date on
which any final assessment was issued.

A tax lien shall not be effective against any bona fide purchaser for
value of any item purchased in the usual and ordinary course of business from a

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 65

person's stock in trade. The Department shall file a tax lien upon the property to
be encumbered:

(1) For real property, with the Recorder of Deeds of the County, or
similarjurisdiction, in which the real property is located;

(2) For personal property, with the Recorder of Deeds of the County
and with the Secretary of State of the State. At least ten days
prior to filing a lien, the Department shall give notice to the final
assessee of its intent to ?le the lien.

(0) Nothing in Subsection of this section shall be construed to give
the County a preference over the rights of any bona fide purchaser, mortgagee,
judgment creditor or other lien holder who perfected its lien prior to the filing of
the Department's lien.

In addition to any other remedy provided by this article -or
otherwise by law, the County may foreclose on its lien on real or personal
prOperty to the same extent and in the same manner as in the enforcement of
other liens. No proceedings to foreclose shall be instituted more than seven
years after the ?ling of the Department's lien, except that this period shall not run:

(1) For the period of time in assessment that forms the basis for the
lien; or

(2) For the duration of any judicial order enjoining or restraining the
Department for instituting foreclosure proceedings.

(9) All fees for the recording of notices of liens or release of liens shall
be added to the sum payable by the ?nal assessee.

Sec. 34-89. Survival of liability.

If a deceased person owes any tax, penalty. or interest to the County, the
Director may request that a claim against the decedent's estate be made.

Sec 34-90. Credit and refunds.

If it appears that an amount of tax, interest or penalty has been
paid or remitted in error to the Department, the taxpayer or tax collector may file
a claim for credit or refund. However, no person shall be eligible for a credit or
refund unless the person paid or remitted the tax, interest or penalty directly to

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 66

the Department.

Any claim for a credit or refund must be filed in writing on forms
provided by the Department not later than four years from the date on which
payment or remittance in error was made.

(0) The Department shall allow .a claim for credit or refund only for
sums paid or remitted through a mistake of fact, an error of law or as provided by
Subsection of this section.

No credit or refund shall be allowed for any amount paid or
remitted in error unless:

(1) In the case of a claim for credit or refund by a taxpayer, the
taxpayer either:

a. Bore the burden of paying the tax and did not shift the
burden to another person; or

b. Shifted the burden of paying the tax to another person; but
has unconditionally repaid the tax to that person.

(2) in the case of a claim for credit or refund by a tax collector, the tax
collector has unconditionally repaid the tax collected to the person
from whom it was collected.

No credit or refund shall be allowed for any sum paid or remitted in
satisfaction of, or in settlement of, any claim for taxes, interest or penalties
asserted by the Department.

A claim for credit or refund shall be acknowledged in writing by the
Director. The written acknowledgement shall identify the claim and state the date
upon which it was received.

Sec. 34-91. Disposition of claims.

As soon as practicable after a claim for credit or refund is filed, the
Director shall examine the credit or refund request and determine the amount of
credit or refund due, if any, and shall issue a written notice to the claimant of a
tentative determination.

The tentative determination of claim shall be prima facia correct
and the claimant has the burden of proving with books, records, or other
documentary evidence that the determination is incorrect.

If the claimant disagrees with the tentative determination, the
claimant may file with the Department a written protest. The written protest must

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 67

be filed within 20 days of mailing the written notice of tentative determination of
claim.

Upon the receipt of a timely protest, the Director shall fix the time
and place for hearing, by giving written notice to the claimant.

Any hearing held under this section shall be governed by the
procedures set forth in Section 34-70.

Upon conclusion of the hearing, the hearing of?cer shall make a
recommendation to the Director. The Director shall adopt reject or modify the
recommendation based on a review of the record and shall issue a final
determination. Written notice of the Director's final determination shall be given to
the claimant.

(9) if the claimant fails to file a timely written protest the tentative
determination shall become final without further notice the day after the last day
for protest. 

The Director may issue to a claimant a letter of credit if the director
determines that a claimant may be able to use the credit In the foreseeable future
or may issue a refund certificate, in lieu of a letter of credit, on application by a
claimant who cannot use sell or assign a letter of credit. Refund certificates shall
be numbered serially as issued and shall be paid in the order of' Issuance from
funds appropriated for that purpose.

Sec. 34-92. Bulk sales or transfers.
Seller's/transferor's notice requirement.

(1) If a taxpayer or tax collector conducts a business or activity that
requires filing a tax return or remittance return with the
Department on any periodic basis and the taxpayer or tax
collector:

a. Sells or transfers the business or activity that required the
person to pay or remit a tax to the County;

b. Sells or transfers a major part of the assets of the business
or activity; or

c. Sells or transfers, other than in the ordinary and usual
course of business, a major part of any one or more of the
following assets:

1. The stock of goods or inventory of the taxpayer or
tax collector;

(2)

Finance Committee Report
Public Hearing
February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011

Page 68
2. Furniture or fixtures;
3. Machinery or equipment; or
4. Real property, the taxpayer or tax collector shall file

with the Department written notice of the intended
sales or transfer.

The taxpayer's or tax collector?s written notice shall be filed with
the department at least 45 days prior to the date of sale or transfer
on a form provided by the Department. The written notice shall set
forth:

a. The name of the seller or transferor;

b. The name of the purchaser or transferee;

c. A description of the property or business or activity to be
sold;

d. The purchase or transfer price;

e. The date of sale or transfer;

f. Any other information the Department may reasonably
require.

Within 30 days after sale or transfer, the seller or transferor shall
file any tax returns or remittance returns and pay or remit to the
Department any taxes, interest or penalties due or accrued, and
not paid or remitted, through the date of the sale or transfer.

Purchaser's/fransferee's notice requirement.

At least 45 days prior to the date of sale or transfer, the purchaser
or transferee shall file with the Department written notice of the
intended sale or transfer on the form provided for in Subsection
of this section.

The purchaser or transferee may give written notice in conjunction
with the seller?s or transferor's written notice.

If the purchaser or transferee fails to file notice as required above,
the purchaser or transferee shall be jointly and severally liable with
the seller or transferor for the amount of taxes, interest or
penalties owed by the seller or transferor to the County, but not
exceeding the fair market value of the property acquired by the
purchaser or tranSferee.

(3)

(4)

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 69

Department's response to notice.

If a timely written notice as required by this section is filed, the
Department shall:

a. Perform an audit of the seller's or transferor?s books and
records or otherwise determine all taxes, interest or
penalties due or accrued through the date of sale or
transfer; and

b. At least 15 days prior to the date of sale or transfer, give
written notice in the manner provided by Section 34-67 to
both the seller (transferor) and the purchaser (transferee)
of the amount to be withheld from the purchase or transfer
price to cover all unpaid or unremitted taxes, interest or
penalties due or accrued and not paid or remitted, through
the date of sale or transfer.

Upon receiving timely written notice from the Department of the
amount to be withheld, the purchaser or transferee shall withhold
this amount from the purchase or transfer price or, if payment of
money or property is not involved, the purchaser or transferee
shall withhold the performance that constitutes consideration for
the sale or transfer, until the seller or transferor produces:

a. A receipt from the Department showing that all taxes,
interest and penalties have been paid or remitted; or

b. A certificate from the Department showing no tax, interest
or penalties are due.

If the department fails to provide timely written notice to the
purchaser or transferee as provided by Subsection (1) of this
section, the purchaser or transferee shall be relieved of any duty
to withhold from the purchase or transfer price and shall have no
liability for taxes, interest or penalties due from the seller or
transferor through the date of sale or transfer.

If the Department provides timely written notice to the purchaser
or transferee of the amount to be withheld from the purchase or
transfer price and that amount is withheld, the purchaser's or
transferee's liability for any taxes, interest and penalties through
the date of sale or transfer shall be limited to the amount withheld.

if the purchaser or transferee fails to withhold from the purchase
or transfer price the amount requested by the Department, the
purchaser or transferee shall be jointly and severally liable with the
seller or transferor for all taxes, interest and penalties owed by the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 70

seller or transferor to the County, but not exceeding the lesser of
the fair market value of the property acquired or the amount
requested by the Department.

(6) The purchaser or transferee shall pay to the Department upon the
Department's written demand any amount withheld under this
section.

Seller's/transferor's continuing liability. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to relieve the seller or transferor of liability for outstanding
taxes, interest or penalties, except that any payments received from the
purchaser or transferee pursuant to this section shall reduce the seller's or
transferor's liability to the County.

Sec. 34-93. Voluntary Disclosure Program.

The director shall issue written guidelines setting forth the terms and
conditions for participation in the Department's Voluntary Disclosure Program
which permits unregistered tax collectors and taxpayers required to remit tax
directly to the Department. to whom the Department has not issued a notice of
tax audit or tax investigation, to self-assess and pay their outstanding tax
liabilities and interest in exchange for the waiver of all penalties for tax liabilities
arising during the four~vear period immediately prior to the date on which a tax
collector or taxpayer applies to participate in the program.

.3lBl. II . I.
Sec. 34-94. Confidentiality.

 

All information that the Department receives from returns or
reports, from any investigation, or from any hearing conducted under this article
or under any County tax ordinance, shall be confidential and shall be used for
official purposes only. Any person who divulges confidential information in any
manner and for any purpose, except in accordance with a properjudicial order, or
as otherwise provided by law, shall be subject to a term of incarceration not to
exceed six months or a fine not to exceed $500.00 or both.

Nothing in this section shall prevent the Director from publishing or
making available to the public the names and addresses of persons filing returns
or reports under this article, or under any tax ordinance, or from publishing or
making available reasonable statistics concerning the operation of a tax by
grouping the contents of returns so that the information in any individual return is
not disclosed.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 71

(0) Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Director from furnishing to
the United States Government, to the government of any state, to any Federal or
State officer or agency or to any municipality, for exclusively official purposes,
information received by the Department in administering this article or any
County tax ordinance, if the other government or governmental officer or agency
agrees to furnish tax information requested by the Department.

Furnishing information to a seller or purchaser under Section 34-
77 is an official purpose within the meaning of this section. Furnishing returns,
reports or information to the County Auditor, or authorized agent is an official
purpose within the meaning of this section.

Sec. 34-95. Department Tip Line.
la) Tip Line Program.

The Director of Revenue shall establish a Tip Line Reward Program
enabling any person, as described in this Article. to report to the Department anv
Home Rule Tax Ordinance violation and receive a reward from the total amount
of the proceeds collected by the Department after final adiudication of the
reported violation. Such violations shall be reported in accordance with rules
promulgated by the Director of Revenue.

Conviction and reward.

Any person who reports a violation that leads to a conviction and
collection of the outstanding tax liability, fees or penalties, shall be entitled to a
reward. in accordance with rules promulgated bv the Director of Revenue, not
exceeding $1,000.00.

 

Ineligible Persons.

Emplovees of Cook Countv. independentlv elected officials. their familv
members and any person who shares such an employee's home or domicile of
record, shall not be eligible for anv reward authorized bv this section,

8.3155Sec 34-97. Filing and publication of rules and regulations.

Any rules or regulation promulgated under this article or under any
tax ordinance shall be filed in the Department's principal office and shall be
available for public inspection. Copies shall be made available upon request and
payment of a reasonable fee determined by the Department, to cover to cost of
providing the copy.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 72

The Department may publish any rule or regulation in book or
pamphlet form and may make a reasonable charge to cover the cost of
publication of the book or pamphlet.

Sec 34-96. Alternative methods of transmitting payment.

The Director may authorize by rule that taxpayers or tax collectors pay or
remit any tax by electronic or other means. but?enly:

 

*Referred to the Committee on Construction on 2I1I11.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310969). Commissioner Beavers
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Uniform Penalties,
Interest, and Procedures Ordinance (Communication No. 310969)

Yeas: Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (12)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Uniform Penalties, Interest, and
Procedures Ordinance (Communication No. 310969) was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310970, for
consideration.

310970 AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY TOBACCO TAX ORDINANCE
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance
Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President, Jerry Butler, John P.
Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims,
Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County
Commissioners.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 73

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY TOBACCO TAX ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant
to Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners adopted the ?Tobacco Tax Ordinance? on June 1, 1980, and
subsequent amendments, to provide a tax on the retail sale of cigarettes: and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Cook County
Department of Revenue (Department) seeks to clarify significant enforcement
language definitions, and the application of the tax and tax collector duties by
amending Sections 74? 431 and 74- 433, respectively; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement the Department
seeks to clarify illegal sales, possession, and use penalties, and the books or
records to be maintained by taxpayers by amending Sections 74-435 and 74-
438, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to clarify its authority to perform on premises
inspections and increase the penalty for those who prevent or hinder such
inspections by amending Section 74-439, and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to clarify it?s authority to confiscate or seize
illegal cigarettes, by amending Section 74-441.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook Count Code of Ordinances, Article XI, Chapter 74,
Sections 74-430 74-449, Tobacco Tax is hereby amended as follows:
ARTICLE XI. TOBACCO TAX
Sec. 74-430. Short title; definitions.
Sec. 74-431. Definitions.

For the purpose of this Article, whenever any of the following words, terms
or definitions are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in

this section.

Altered or Mutilated tax stamp means any tax stamp on which the identity
information is i  eqi_ble or incomplete.

Chewing tobacco means any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be
smoked.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 74

Cigar means any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any
substance containing tobacco (other than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette
as defined in this article).

Cigarette means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco.
irrespective of size or shape and whether such tobacco is flavored, adulterated or
mixed with any other ingredient, or not, and the wrapper of which is made of
paper or any other substance or material except tobacco.

Conceaiment means cigarettes or cigarette tax stamps. in violation of this
article. deliberately hidden to prevent or evade discovery and offered for sale by
or in the possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Conspicuous means easily or clearly visible

Counterfeit Cigarettes means any cigarette or pack of cigarettes bearing a
false. forged. arti?cial or imitation manufacturing iabei.

County means the County of Cook

Department means the Department of Revenue within the Bureau of
Finance of the County of Cook.

Director means the Director of the Department of Revenue.

Improperly stamped pack means, any packs of cigarettes on which is
affixed an alteredimutilated; used or reused: or counterfeit tax stamp

Loose cigarettes means cigarettes that are not contained within a sealed
container. pack. or package as provided by the manufacturer or as a result of any
wholesale or retail tobacco dealer or person breaking or otherwise opening any
cigarette package to sell or distribute individual cigarettes or a number of
unpackaged cigarettes that is smaller than the minimum package size of 20
cigarettes or any quantity of cigarettes that is smaller than the smallestackage
distributed by the manufacturer for individual consumer use.

Manufacturermeans any person who makes or fabricates cigarettes
and/or tobacco products and sells them.

Package means the original packet. box, tin or container whatsoever used
to contain and to convey cigarettes tobacco products to the consumer.

Person means any individual, corporation. Limited Liability Corporation,
organization. government, governmental subdivision or agency. business trust.
estate. trust. partnership. association and any other legal entity.

Pipe tobacco includes any tobacco which. because of its appearance.
type. packaging or labeling is suitable for use and likely to be offered to. or

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 75

purchased by, consumers as tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.

Premises means, but is not limited to, buildings, vehicles or any place
where cigarette inventory is possessed, stored or sold.

Purchaser means consumer or end-user.

Retail tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the business of
selling cigarettes or other tobacco products in the County of Cook to a purchaser
for use or consumption and not for resale in any form.

Roll?your?own tobacco includes any tobacco which, because of its
appearance, type, packaging or labeling is suitable for use and likely to be
offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes.

Sale, resale, selling means any transfer of ownership or possession, or
both, exchange or barter, conditional or othenrvise, in any manner or by any
means whatsoever for a valuable consideration.

Smokeless tobacco includes any snuff, chewing tobacco, or other tobacco
products not intended to be smoked.

Smoking Tobacco includes granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, readv rubbed
and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to be suitable
for smoking in a pipe or cigarette.

Snuff means any finely cut, ground or powered tobacco that is not
intended to be smoked.

Stamp means paper or other material with an imprint or decalcomania
device thereon, of such size, design, color and denominations as may be
prescribed and procured by the Department which, when affixed to a package of
cigarettes, shall evidence payment of the tax thereon, as provided by this article.

Tobacco products includes, but is not limited to, any cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff or snuff flour; Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut
and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweeping of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or both
chewing and smoking; but does not include cigarettes or tobacco purchased for
the manufacture of cigarettes by cigarette wholesale tobacco dealers and
manufacturers as defined in this article.

Unit means any division of quantity that may be used as a standard to
measure the quantity sold based on length, width, weight such as pounds,
ounces and/or grams or volume or some other similar unit of measure, including
but not limited to per item.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
1 Page 76

Unstampedpack means anv pack of cigarettes on which a Cook County
tax stamp is not affixed.

Use means any exercise of a right or power, actual or constructive, and
shall include but is not limited to the receipt, storage, or any keeping or retention
for any length of time, but shall not include possession for sale by a retail or
wholesale tobacco dealer as defined in this article.

Used or reused tax stamp means, any tax stamp previouslv affixed to a
tobacco product. removed and subsequentlyI affixed to anv tobacco product
purchased, offered for sale or sold by anv person, wholesale or retail tobacco
dealer; or any removed tax stamp purchased. offered for sale, sold by, or in the
possession of a wholesale or retail tobacco dealer.

Wholesale tobacco dealer means any person who engages in the
business of selling or s'upplying cigarettes and/or tobacco products, who brings
into the County cigarettes, to any person for resale in or outside the County of
Cook. For the purposes of this article, wholesale tobacco dealers also include
cigarette distributors who are licensed with the State of Illinois (35 ILCS 143/10?
20). (Ord. No. 09-0-15, 3-4-2009.)





Sec. 74-432 Registration of wholesale and retail tobacco dealers

Wholesale and retail tobacco dealers as defined In this artiCle, 

 

shall register with the

Department in accordance with policies or procedures prescribed bv the
Department 
cemmeneement?ef?beanessa


oieare?esrand-Hmm





 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 77

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 78


i I ll . II 

moved to
M6:

Sec. 74-433. Tax imposed.

Tax rate. A tax at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10 per cigarette is
hereby imposed upon all cigarettes possessed for sale and upon the use of all
cigarettes within the County of Cook, the ultimate incidence of and liability for
payment of said tax to be borne by the consumer of said cigarettes. The tax
imposed hereby at the rate of 100 mils or $0.10 per cigarette shall become in
force and effect on March 1, 2006. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to
any and all other taxes.

Tax stamp purchases. The tax imposed in this section shall be
paid by purchase of tax stamps from the Department, except as otherwise
provided in Section 74-443(a) and of this Article. The Department shall only
sell Cook County cigarette tax stamps to cigarette distributors who are licensed
with the State of Illinois. It shall be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer,
before delivering or causing to be delivered any cigarettes to a retail tobacco
dealer in the County of Cook to purchase from the Department a tax stamp for
each package of cigarettes and to cancel said stamps prior to the delivery of such
cigarettes to any retail tobacco dealer in the County of Cook. Said stamps shall
be affixed and cancelled in the manner prescribed by rules and regulations of the
Department.

(0) Tax collection. Any wholesale tobacco dealer who shall pay the
tax levied by this Article to the Department shall collect the tax from any retail
tobacco dealer to whom the sale of said cigarettes is made, and any retail
tobacco dealer shall, in turn, and then collect the tax from the purchaser of said
cigarettes. The tax shall be paid to the person required to collect it as trustee for
and on account of the County of Cook. 

Tax included in sales price. It shall be deemed a violation of this
article for a retail tobacco dealer to fail to include the tax imposed in this?article in
the sale price of cigarettes to otherwise absorb such tax. The tax levied in this
article shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.

Tax debt owed to County. The tax required in this article to be

collected by any wholesale or retail tobacco dealer pursuant to this article shall
constitute a debt owed by such wholesale or retail tobacco dealer to the County.

moved to Sec 74-443.

Sec, 74-434. Tax free sales.

Wholesale tobacco dealers doing business in Cook County shall not pay

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 79

or collect a tax with respect to cigarettes and/or tobacco products which are
otherwise subject to the tax when the cigarettes and/or tobacco products are
being sold to the following:

Another wholesale tobacco dealer holding a valid Cook County
tobacco wholesalers registration certificate; and

A wholesale tobacco dealer or a retail tobacco dealer in the event,
the selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the cigarettes or other
tobacco products to a location outside of Cook County.

39644-435?Rulemaking moved to Sec 74-447.
Sec 74-435. Sales. possession, use or hindrance violations and penalties.

A. It shall be a violation of this Article to enqaqe in the sale,
possession. or use of any cigarettes and/or other tobacco products
subject to any tax provided by this Article upon which said tax has not
been paid or the stamps affixed and cancelled as herein required,
including, as described in this Article:

1. Counterfeit cigarettes
2. Counterfeit tax stamps
3. Improperly stamped packs

4. Unstamped packs

B. It shall be a violation of this Article for anv wholesale or retail
tobacco dealer to engage in any of the following:

1. Utilization of used or reused tax stamps by possessing or offering
for sale or resale packs of cigarettes affixed with a used or reused
tax stamp.

2. Concealment, as described in this article.

3. Sell or distribute loose cigarettes.

4. Sell cigarettes to any person, other than to another registered

Cook County wholesale tobacco dealer, unless each package
bears an un-mutilated Cook County tax stamp affixed, or where
the selling wholesale tobacco dealer, or its agent, delivers the
unstamped cigarettes to a location outside Cook County.

5. Hinder or prevent an authorized Department representative from
performing an inspection or audit.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011

Page 80

C. Prima FaCie Presumption. The sale, resale or possession by a
wholesale or retail tobacco dealer of altered/mutilated, counterfeit, used or
reused tax stamps; or packs of counterfeit, improperlv stamped, unstamped
oiqarettes or loose ciqarettes shall qive rise to the prime facie presumption that
the wholesale or retail tobacco dealer is in violation of the provisions of this
Article.

 

D. Ciqarette pack. tax stamp. loose ciqarettes and hindrance violation



Violation Tme
Concealment

1st Offense

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Counterfeit Packs of Ciqarettes

40 or less

41 or more

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional

Counterfeit tax stamps
40 or less
41 or more
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Improperly Stamped Packs
40 or less
41 or more
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional
Loose Cigarettes
40 or less
40 or more
2nd and each subseduent offense, an additional
Sales to Unreqistered Wholesalers
1st offense
. 2nd and each subsequent offensegn additional

Unstamped Packs

Penalties
Amount
$2,000.00
$4,000.00
AM
$2,000.00
$50.00 per pack
$4,000.00
A_mu_m?
$2,000.00
$50.00 Qer stamg
ELEM
MM
$2,000.00

$2000.00

Amount

$1 ,000.00
$25.00 per ciqarette

$2,000.00

Amount

$2,000.00
$4,000.00

Amount

Finance Committee Report
Public Hearing
February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 81
40 Packs or less $1,000.00
41 Packs or more $25.00 per Pack
2nd and each subsequent offense. an additional $2,000.00
Violation Type Penalties
Utilization of Used or Reused Tax Stamps Amount
40 or Less Packs or Stamps $2,000.00
41 or more Packs or Stamps $5000 per Pack or

Stamp

2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional $4,000.00
Hinder Inspection or audit Amount
1st Offense $1,000.00
2nd and each subsequent offense, an additional $2,000.00

 

 

 

 

 

- Additional.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

moved to Sec 74-445. 
Sec. 74-436. 0t_l1er Violation Penalties.

a. Any person determined to have violated this Article, as amended,
excluding the violations described in Sec 74-435L8ales, possession. use or
hindrance violations and penalties). shall be subiect to a fine in the amount of
$1,000.00 for the first offense. and a fine of $2000.00 for the second and each
subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be reqarded as
committed each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or
permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be deemed a
violation of this Article for any person to knowinqlv furnish false or inaccurate
information to the Department.

b. Criminal penalties. Everv person who shall falsely make. altegiorqe or
counterfeit anv tax stamp. or who. with intent to defraud the County, shall affix or
cause to be affixed anyr counterfeit or altered stamp to any packaqe of ciqareltes.
knowing said stamp to be counterfeit or altered, shall be quiltv of a Class 
misdemeanor. in addition to any other criminal penalties which may be applicable
under Illinois or Federal law.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 82

c. Criminal prosecution. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this Article
shall in no way bar the right of the Countv to institute civil proceedings to recover
delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs incurred for

such proceeding.

moved to Sec
74-432.

Sec 74-437. Internet, mail order and outside-of-county purchases.

With respect to cigarettes or tobacco products purchased over the
internet, by mail order or outside the County, it the tax on cigarettes and other
tobacco products which is imposed pursuant to this article, as amended, has not
been paid by a wholesaler or retailer prior to use or possession of the cigarette or
tobacco product by a person within the County of Cook, such person shall be
obligated to make payment of the tax directly to the Department. Within 30 days
of purchase, such person shall file a return with the Department of Revenue and
pay the tax, penalties and interest due under this article, as amended.

(Ord. No. 09-0-15, 3-4-2009.)

moved to Sec 74-434.
Sec 74-438. Mutilation of tax stamps.

It is unlawful for any person to mutilate a tax stamp herein required on any
package of cigarettes before it is sold by a retail tobacco dealer.

Sec. 74-439. Books and records to be kept.

Wholesale tobacco dealer Records of deliveries. At the time of
delivering cigarettes to any person doing business in the County of Cook, it shall
be the duty of every wholesale tobacco dealer to make a true triplicate invoice,
numbered serially, showing the date of delivery, the number of packages, the
number of cigarettes contained therein in each shipment of cigarettes delivered,
and the name of the purchaser to whom delivery is made. The wholesaler shall
issue one copy of the invoice to the purchaser, and shall retain one legible copy
of the same for the use and inspection of the Department for the period of time as
provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedure
Ordinance [Section 34-60 et seq.].

Wholesaler and Retailer inventory purchases; sales;
reconciliations. It shall be the dutv of every wholesale and retail tobacco dealer
to make or maintain cigarette inventory:

(1) Purchase order documents, serially numbered. indicating the 
name. address of the person or business from whom the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 83

ciqarettes. were purchased; brand name. type and total number of
packaqes to be purchased. in sequential date order.

(2) Delivery or receipt documents, serially numbered indicatinq the
date; name, address of the person or business to whom the
ciqarettes were delivered; brand name. type and total number of
packs delivered. in se?ential date order.

(3) Wholesale tobacco dealer sales documents. serially numbered
indicatinq the date: name. address of the person or business to
whom the ciqarettes were sold brand name, type and total number
of packs delivered. in sequential date order.

(4) Retail tobacco dealer sales documents. indicatinq in sequential
date order, brand name, type and total number of packs sold, each

day.

Retail tobacco deaier ciqarette inventory reconciliation. indicatinq
daily. weekly or beqinninq inventory. purchases; sales
and endinq inventory. in sequential date order.

(6) Retail tobacco dealer wholesaler list. indicatinq the name
and address of each wholesaler from whom ciqarette inventory
was purchased; brand name; type and total number of packs
purchased from each wholesaler.

Taxable and nontaxable transaction books and records. It shall be
the duty of all wholesale tobacco dealers, retail dealers and persons required by
this article to collect and/or to pay the taxes herein imposed to keep and maintain
all books. papers and records related to all transactions taxable and nontaxable
under this article and to make such records available to the Director or a duly
authorized representative who has been appointed. by the Director. on request
for inspection. audit and/or copying during regular business hours. The
Department shall promulgate rules and regulations specifying the records that
shall be kept by wholesale tobacco dealers. retail dealers and persons required
by this article to collect and or/pay the taxes herein imposed, and may prescribe
any forms appropriate in furtherance of this article. Books. papers and records
which relate to a return filed or required to be filed with the Department shall be
kept for the period as provided for in the Cook County Uniform Penalties. Interest
and Procedures Ordinance [Section 34-60 et seq.]. The burden shall be on the
tax collectOr and tax payer to keep records which verify the basis for any and all
transactions which are claimed to be exempt from taxation pursuant to Section
74-438 of this article.

Sec. 74-440. Inspections; audits.

Books and records kept in compliance with ?ec. 437 of this Ordinance
shall be made available to the Department upon request for inspection, audit

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

Febrdary 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 84

and/or copying during regular business hours. Representatives of the Department
shall be permitted to inspect or audit cigarette inventory in or upon any premises.
An audit or inspection may include the physical examination of the cigarettes,
packaging or the cigarette tax stamps. It shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent, or hinder a duly authorized Department representative from performing
the enforcement duties provided in this article.

See?14444.??Pesting?ef?signs moved to Sec 74-442.

Sec. 74-441. Confiscate; Seize; redemption penalty.

(8) Confiscation; seizure. Whenever the Department or any of its duly
authorized representatives shall discover any cigarettes and/or other tobacco
products subject to any tax provided by this article upon which said tax has not
been paid or the stamps affixed and cancelled as herein required, they are
hereby authorized and empowered forthwith to confiscate; seize and take
possession of such cigarettes and/or other tobacco products together with any
vending machine; receptacle; container; vessel or holder in which they are held
for sale except for money contained in such vending machine or receptacle, shall
thereupon be deemed to be forfeited to the County of Cook.

(21(6) Cigarette redemption penalty. The Department shall either
destroy the cigarettes seized or may permit the Wholesale Tobacco Dealer from
whom the said cidarettes were seized, to redeem the cigarettes andlor any
vending machine or receptacle seized therewith, by the payment of a
Redemption Penalty equal to 100 percent of the tax due, and including the cost
incurred in such proceeding. Such seizure, destruction. and sale. or redemption
shall not be deemed to relieve any person from fine or imprisonment provided
herein for violation of any provision of this article.

moved to Sec 74-431.
Seam-44; Posting of signs.

Every retail tobacco dealer s_ha   may?lse?Feqeired?te post a sign that?has
been?prescribed?and issued by the Department, indicatindthe offer to sale the
sale or purchase of unstamped packs or loose ciqarettes is unlawful oestating

 

shall be posted in a conspicuous location, to anyone purchasinq ciqarettes at the

retailer's place of business 
anyone?perehaeing?eigarettes.
(Ord. No. 09-0-15, 3-4-2009.)

moved to Sec 74-
435.

Sec. 74-443. Wholesale tobacco dealer Quarterly returns.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 85

A sworn quarterly cigarette and/or other tobacco products Revenue
Information return shall be filed by each wholesale tobacco dealer with the
Department, on forms prescribed by the Department. The return shall be filed on
or before the last day of the first month following the preceding quarter. Every
wholesale tobacco dealer required to file a tax return under this section, who
does not file such tax return by its due date, or alternatively does not provide all
required information on such tax return, shall be subject to the penalties that are
provided for in Sec. 74-446 of this Article in addition to all other penalties and
interest that may be due as provided in the Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance [Section 34-60 et seq.]. Quarterly returns, books and
records, papers and original source documents that provide support for the
information that is included in the return filed, with the Department, shall be kept
for the period as provided in the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures Ordinance [Section 34-60 et seq.].

moved to Sec 74-446.

Sec. 74-444. Failure to file a return and/or pay tax.

In case of failure to? file a tax return and pay this tax when due the
Department may assess penalties and interest as provided for in this article
a_ndlor the Cook County Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance
(Section 34? 60 et seq. 

See?MMutilatieneHamtamps.












Sec. 74-445. Agthoritv to sale stamp; aqents; credits/refunds.

Cigarette tax stamps. The Department shall contract for and
furnish tax stamps of such denominations and quantities as may be necessary for
the payment of the tax imposed on cigarettes by this article. and may, from time
to time, provide for the issuance and exclusive use of stamps of a new design
and forbid the use of stamps of any other design.

Agents. The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers
of cigarettes and any other person within or without the County as agents to affix

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 86

stamps to be used in paying the tax hereby imposed on cigarettes and said agent
is hereby authorized to appoint other persons in his employ who are to affix said
stamps to any cigarettes under his control in the manner prescribed by the rules
and regulations promulgated by the Department. Whenever the Department shall
sell, consign or deliver to any such agent any such stamps, such agent shall be
entitled to receive compensation for his services and expenses in affixing such
stamps, and to retain use of the monies to be paid by him for such stamps as a
commission. The Department is hereby authorized to prescribe a schedule of
commissions not exceeding five percent allowable to such agent for affixing such
stamps. Such schedule shall be uniform for each type and denomination of stamp
used and may be on a graduated scale with respect to the number of stamps
purchased. The Department may, in its discretion, permit an agent to pay for
such stamps within 30 days after the date of sale, consignment, or delivery of
such stamps to such agent, provided a bond or bank letter of credit satisfactory to
the Department and approved as to form and legality by the State's Attorney shall
be submitted by said agent to the Department, in an amount equal to the value of
such stamps. The Department, with approval from the State's Attorney, shall
issue regulations pursuant to Section 74-435 regarding the use of such bonds or
bank letters of credit.

(0) Credits or Refunds. The Department may redeem unused tax
stamps lawfully on the possession of any person. Any person seeking credit
and/or a refund for unused tax stamps, tax stamps affixed to packages of
cigarettes returned to a manufacturer, or for the replacement of tax stamps, must
file a claim in writing on forms prescribed by the Department. This form must be
filed with the department no later than 12 months after the month in which the tax
remittance or tax payment was made to the Department. The United States post
mark date or date of physical/actual receipt is used, by the Department, to
determine if a credit or refund is filed timely. No person shall sell or offer for sale
any stamp issued under this article, except by written permission of the
Department. The Department may prescribe rules and regulations concerning
refunds, sales of stamps and redemption under the provisions of this article.

moved to Sec 74-448.
Sec 74-446. Single state and county stamp and tax return.

Single state and county stamp. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Subsections 74?432(b) and and Subsection 74-436(a) of this article, the
Department may provide by regulation that the tax imposed by this article shall, in
the alternative, be collected by means of the issuance and sale of a single tax
stamp to be prepared jointly with the Department of Revenue of the State of
Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) evidencing the
payment of the tax imposed by this article. Toward that end, the Department may
make such arrangements and agreements with the Department of Revenue of
the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the City of Chicago) as may be
required with respect to the method of acquiring, affixing, canceling and the
manner of sharing the cost of such joint single tax stamps, and may establish
procedures for payment of that portion of the tax revenue collected by the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 87

Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois (and/or the City Comptroller of the
City of Chicago) due and payable to the County of Cook, in furtherance of the
purposes of this article. In the event such alternative method as herein provided
is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax may be used within the relevant
jurisdiction; however, all other applicable provisions of this article shall
nevertheless remain in full force and effect.

tax return. Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsections
74-433lb) 14?4326b) and Subsection 74?445la) Jul?436$) and subsection 
of this section, the Department may provide by regulation that the tax imposed on
cigarettes by this article, in the alternative, shall be collected by means of the
filing of a sworn tax return to be prepared and filed by every wholesale tobacco
dealer who sells cigarettes for consumption in the County of Cook. Said return
shall be filed on a basis and shall contain the same information required
by Subsection 74-445lb) 14?43699) of this article-Said return shall be filed with
the Department on or before the fifteenth day of each month stating such other
and further information as may be required by the Department, and said return
shall be accompanied by a certified check in the amount of the tax due and
payable upon such taxable sales made by said wholesale tobacco dealer in the
County of Cook during the preceding month. In the event such alternative method
is utilized, no other method of collecting said tax may be used; however, all other
applicable provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect with the
exception of the necessity of filing a quarterly tax return as provided in
Subsection 74-439(b) of this article, which shall not be required.

WW moved to Sec 74-449.
Sec 74-447. Rulemakinq.

The Department shall prescribe reasonable rules, definitions, and
regulations necessary to carry out the duties imposed upon it by this article. Such
rules, definitions, and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable
procedures consistent with existing practices of wholesale tobacco and retail
tobacco dealers for collection and remittance of the tax herein levied.

The Department may appoint wholesale tobacco dealers and any
other person within or without the County of Cook as agents for the tax herein
levied. The Department is hereby authorized to grant a commission not
exceeding .0045 or .45% per cigarette tax stamp sold by the County of Cook to
such agent for services rendered in connection with the tax herein levied in
[Section 74-432], provided said tax is remitted, in full, by the due date.

(0) Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every
wholesale tobacco dealer doing business in the County of Cook shall file with the
Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of cigarettes in their
possession or control on March 1, 2006. With said inventory, the wholesale
tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including
any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all
stamped cigarettes which were in such wholesale tobacco dealer's possession on

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 88

March 1, 2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail
tobacco dealer doing business in the County of Cook shall file with the
Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of cigarettes in their
possession or control on March 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail tobacco
dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including any
additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all
cigarettes which were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on March 1,
2006.

Within 30 days after the effective date of this article every retail
tobacco dealer doing business in the County of Cook shall file with the
Department, on forms prescribed by it, a sworn inventory of tobacco products in
their possession or control on June 1, 2006. With said inventory, the retail
tobacco dealer shall pay to the Cook County Collector the taxes due, including
any additional taxes due as a result of this article, as amended, with respect to all
tobacco products which were in such retail tobacco dealer's possession on June
1, 2006.

moved to 74-444.

Sec 74-448. Transmittal of excess tax collections.

In the event a person collects an amount in excess of the tax imposed by
this article, as amended, which amount is purported to be a collection thereof,
and said person fails to return the said excess amount to the purchaser who paid
the tax, the said person who collected the tax shall account for and pay over all
such excess amounts to the Department along with the tax properly collected.
Sec 74-449. Deposit of tax proceeds.

All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this article,
including penalties, shall be paid to the Department. The Department shall direct
every dollar collected from the 2006 increase in the rate of the Home Rule
Tobacco Tax to be deposited into the funds of the Cook County Bureau of Health.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2I1I11.
Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the

Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310970). Commissioner Beavers
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 89

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Tobacco Tax Ordinance
(Communication No. 310970)

Yeas: Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Reyes, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (12)

Nays: Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)
Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Tobacco Tax Ordinance
(Communication No. 310970) was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310971, for
consideration.

310971 AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY USE TAX ORDINANCE (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment
sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G.
Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele,
Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
COOK COUNTY USE TAX

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of local government pursuant
to Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Illinois Constitution; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule powers, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners adopted Home Rule Use Tax Ordinance on December 1, 1995;
and

WHEREAS, the Use Tax Ordinance provides for a tax on tangible personal
property purchased at retail and titled or registered, with a State of Illinois
government agency, at location inside Cook County; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Department of Revenue (Department) in the
interest of fair and equitable enforcement seeks to clarify significant definitions;
the application of the tax; by amending Sections 74-271 and 74?272 respectively;
and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to increase the total amount of tax monies
collected each month by eliminating the two-percent tax collector discount, by
amending Section 74-272; and

WHEREAS, the Department in the interest of fair and equitable enforcement
seeks to clarify tax books and records; registration bond; return and remittances

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 90

criteria, by amending Sections 74-275, 74-276, 74-277, respectively; and

WHEREAS, the Department seeks to identify purchasers or users of aircraft and
watercraft registered or titled with an agency of the Illinois, by way of Sections
74-281 and 74-282 respectively.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County Code of Ordinances, Chapter 74 Article VII
Use Tax, Sections 74?270 74-283 is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 74-270. Short title.

This article shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Home
Rule County Use Tax Ordinance.

Sec. 74-271. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:

Aircraft means a device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the



Aircraft Hanqar means a shelter for housing or repairinq aircraft

Aircraft Hangar operator means antir Derson who is the ownerLoperator or
manager of an aircraft hanqar located in the County.

County means Cook County Illinois
Contrivance
Department means the Department of Revenue.

Directormeans the director of the Department of Revenue or duly
authorized representative

Dock means a waterfront, pier, harbor, port, that serve as a landinq area
for watercraft.

Dockinct facility means. a place for securing or storing watercraft or a
place where watercraft can be moored or secured from driftinq awav.

Lessor means anv person engaqed in the business of Ieasinq, to others.
tanqibie personal property. Lessors of Tangible Person-at Property are the users

of such property.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 91

Moor means. to fasten with or as fastened with cables. lines. anchors or
otherwise.

Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled and every
vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires
but not operated upon rails, including but not limited to aircraft. watercraft. cars.
trucks or other similar vehicles; the term motor vehicle does not include vehicles
moved solely by human power. motorized wheelchairs. low-speed electric

bicyclesI and low-speed gas bicycles.

Motor vehicle dealer means any person who. in the ordinary course of
business. is engaged in the business of sellinq new or used motor vehicles to
consumers or other end users.

Person. means any individual. corporation. limited liability corporation.
organization. government, governmental subdivision or aqencv. business trust.
estate. trust. partnership. association and any other legal entity.

Pole trailer means every vehicle without motive power designed to be
drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach
or pole. or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towinq vehicle. and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles.
pipes or structural members capablej generally. of sustaining themselves as
beams between the supporting connections.

Purchase at retail means the acquisition. through a sale at retail, of
ownership of or title to tangible personal property which is titled or registered with
an agency of the State of Illinois.

Purchaser means any person who, through a sale at retail, acquires the
ownership of or title to tangible personal property which is titled or registered with
an agency of the State of Illinois.

Recreational vehicle means every campinq trailer. motor home. mini-
motor home. travel trailer. truck camper or van camper used primarily for
recreational purposes and not used commerciaily nor owned by a commercial
business.

Retailer means every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail of tangible personal property which is titled or registered with an agency of
the state. A person who is engaged in the business of leasing or renting motor
vehicles to others and who in connection with such business sells any used
motor vehicle to a purchaser for such purchaser's use and not for the purpose of
resale. is a retailer engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
at retail under this article to the extent of the value of the vehicle sold. For the
purpose of this section. the term "motor vehicle" shall have the meaning provided
by 625 ILCS 5/1-146 (motor vehicle defined).

Retailer maintaining a place of business in the County or any like term

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 92

means and includes any retailer:

(1) Having or maintaining within the County, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse
or other place of business or any agent or other representative
operating within the County under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent
or other representative is located in the County permanently or
temporarily;

DELETED (deleted from State of Illinois Use Tax statue)

 

(2L Making or eff'ectuating sales for delivery into the County; or
Q)

Owning or possessing real or personal property located or used in
the County for the purpose of or incidental to the making of sales
at retail as defined in this article.

(4) Anv retailer engaged in the business of making, outside Cook
County, sales of tangible personal property titled or registered with
the State of Illinois at a location inside Cook County. who has
obtained a valid Cook County Use Tax certificate of registration.

Sale at retail means any transfer for valuable consideration of the
ownership of or title to tangible personal property which is to be titled or
registered to a person at a location in the County with an agency of the State, for
use in the County, where such transfer is not for the purpose of resale in any
form as tangible personal property. Transactions whereby the possession of
property is transferred but the seller retains title as security for payment of the
selling price with transfer of title effected upon full payment of the selling price
shall be deemed to be sales at retail. Sale at retail shall be construed to include
any transfer of the ownership of or title to tangible personal property which is
titled or registered with an agency of the state, to a purchaser for use by any
other person, to whom such purchaser may transfer, whether made for or without
valuable consideration, for resale in any form as tangible personal property as
defined in this article, unless made in compliance with Section 74?276. Sale at
retail includes any transfer of, ownership of or title to tangible personal property
as defined in this article, for use in the County incidental to a sale of service. 
isolated or occasional sale at retail by a person who does not hold himself out as
being engaged in or who does not habitually enpaoe in selling titled or registered
tangible personal property at retail, is not a sale at retail.

Selling price means the consideration received for a motor vehicle valued

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 93

in money. whether received in money or otherwise, including cash. credits.
service. or property; but not including the value of or credit given for traded-in
tangible personal property where the item that is traded-in is of like kind and
character as that which is being sold. and selling price shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of the property sold. the cost of
materials used. labor or service cost or any similar expense.

Tangible personal property means tangible personal property which is
titled or registered, with an agency of the State of Illinois, to a person at a location
within the corporate limits of the County.

Tax or use tax means the tax imposed by this article, unless the context
requires construction otherwise.

Tax collector means a retailer maintaining a place of business within the
County.

Trailer means Recreational Trailers; TA Trailers; and Flat Weight (625
5/1-209) titled or registered with the State of Illinois at a location inside
Cook County.

Use means the exercise by any person of any right to or power over
tangible personal property incident to the ownership of that property. The term
"use" does not mean the interim holding of tangible personal property by a
retailer before the retailer sells such tangible personal property or the incidental
use of such property in the regular course of such business for sales
demonstration purposes.

Use in Cook County means tangible personal property titled or registered.
at a location in Cook County. with an agency of the State of Illinois.

User means any person whose name is on the tangible personal property
title or registration.

Watercraft means every description of watercraft used or capable of being
used as a means of transportation on water. except a seaplane on the water.
inner-tube. air mattress or similar device. and boats used for concession rides in
artificial bodies of water designed and used exclusively for such concessions.

Watercraft dock operator means. any person who owns. operates or
manages a dock located in the County

Sec. 74-272. Tax imposed, tax rate; collection; purchaser; and tax
collector.

Tax imposed 0 user. The tax imposed by this article and the
obligation to pay the same is upon the user. as described in this Article.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 94

{ea Tax Rate. Except as provide in Section 74-273, a tax is imposed
at the rate of three-quarters of one percent on the selling price of tangible
personal property. purchased through a sale at retail, which is titled or registered
with an agency of the State of Illinois at location inside Cook County.

(0) Collection; remittance; sales receipt. The tax imposed by this
article shall be collected from the purchaser by the tax collector as defined by
Section 74-271, and remitted to the Department as provided in this article. The
tax imposed by this article shall, when collected, be stated as a distinct item
separate and apart from the selling price of tangible personal property; and, the
tax collector when collecting the tax shall give to the purchaser a receipt for such
tax in the manner and form prescribed by the Department. Such receipt shall be
sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further liability for the tax to which such
receipt may refer.

Tax paid by Purchaser. Except as provided in Section 74-277, the
purchaser shall pay the tax imposed by this article to the tax collector.

(9) Tax Collector liable. The tax collector shall be liable to the County
for the amount of tax that it is required to collect; and, shall collect the tax from
purchasers by adding the tax to the selling price of tangible personal property,
when sold for use in the County, in the manner prescribed by this article and the
Department. If any retailer in collecting the amount which purports to constitute
use taxes measured by receipts from sales which are subject to tax under this
article, collects more from the purchaser than the actual use tax liability on the
transaction, the purchaser shall have a legal right to claim a refund of such
amount from such retailer. However, if such amount is not refunded to the
purchaser for any reason, the retailer is liable to pay such amount to the
Department.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 95

 

moved to Sec 74-274.

Sec 74-273. Purchaser pavinq tax directly to department.

When tangible personal property is purchased from a retailer for
use in the County by a purchaser or user subject to the tax imposed by this
article, and who did not pay the tax imposed by this article to the retailer, and
who did not file returns with the Department as a retailer under Section 74?275,
such purchaser or user shall, by the last day of calendar month in which such
purchase was made, ?le and return with the Department and pay the tax due
under this article.

When tangible personal property is purchased by a lessor, which
is subject to a lease for one year or longer, executed or in effect at the time of
purchase, to an interstate carrier for hire, where such lessor did not pay the tax
imposed by this article to the retailer at the time of purchase, such lessor shall, by
the last day of the calendar month in which such property reverts to the use of
such lessor, file a return with the Department and pay the tax imposed by this
article upon the fair market value of such property on the date of reversion.
Leaser

When a purchaser or user pays the tax imposed by this article
directly to the Department, the Department shall issue an appropriate receipt to
such purchaser or user showing that the tax has been paid to the Department.
Such receipt shall be sufficient to relieve the purchaser or user from further
liability for the tax to which the receipt may refer.

A purchaser or user who is liable to pay use tax directly to the
Department only occasionally and not on a frequent recurring basis, and who is
not required to file returns with the Department as a retailer under Section 74-275
concerning the filing of regular tax returns and all provisions concerning
the requirements of registrants to post bond or other security with the Department

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 96

shall apply to such purchasers or users; except that such a purchaser or user
shall not be entitled to the two percent discount provided in Section 74-275 on
any remittance, when such purchaser or user could have paid the tax to the retail
seller of the property who was a registered tax collector for the County, instead of
remitting the use tax directly to the Department.

 

SemWetailmegistra?eneseeu?ty moved to Sec 74-276.
Sec 74-274. Transactions not subject to tax.

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, uses of tangible
personal property, as defined in Section 74-271, which are exempt under the
applicable provisions of 55 ILCS 5/5?1008 (home rule county use tax) and the
Use Tax Act (35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.) shall not be subject to the tax imposed by
this article.



 



 



Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 97

 

moved to Sec 74-277.
Sec. 74-275. Books and records to be kept.

It shall be the duty of all retailers, tax collectors and persons required by
this article to collect and/or to pay the taxes imposed in this article to keep and
maintain all books, papers and records related to all transactions taxable or non-
taxable under this article and to make such records available to the Director on
request for inspection, audit and/or copying during regular business hours.
Books, papers and records which relate to a return filed or required to be filed
with the Department shall be kept for a period as provided for in Chapter 34,
Article Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures Ordinance.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 98

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 99

 

moved to Section 74-
278.

Sec. 74-276. Retailer registration; surety and cash bonds.

Retailer Reqistration. Even/ retailer maintaininq a place of
business in the County shall reqister with the Department, to obtain a certificate
of Use Tax reqistration. in accordance withpoiicies and procedures prescribed by
the Department. It shall be a violation for any retailer maintainino a place of
business in the County to enoaoe in the business of sellino tanqible personal
property titled or reoistered. at an address or location in Cook County, with the
State of without a Use Tax certificate of reqistration.

Surety; Cash Bonds. To protect the County aqainst the failure to
pay an amount which may become due retailers maintaininq a place of business
in the County shall proyide to the Department a Surety or Cash Bond in the
amount of $5000.00 for each location in the County at which the retailer intends
to act as a motor vehicle dealer. Such surety and cash bonds shall be for the
term of reqistration. includino its renewal and shall become due or owed to the
beneficiary in accordance with rules promulqated by the Department. The
Department shall be the surety or cash bond bene?ciary. The Surety Bond shall
be obtained from a surety bondinq or insurance company authorized to do
business in the state of Illinois, and shall expire not sooner than December 31 of
the year for which the reqistration was issued or renewed.

WHesenmmgibteperseaaLprepe?y.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 100

 

moved to
Section 74-273.

Sec. 74-277. Filinq of returns and remittances.

Returns: remittances; due date. Except as provided in
this section, 

 

menth?wth?the?Department a tax collector as described in this article shall file a

 

return and remit payment on or before the twentieth day of each calendar month

following the month for which the taxis du.e 

 

A tax collector shall file a return

 

even when no taxis due.

Final return. remittance Netwithstaneling?any?ether

Any tax collector who ceases to engage
in a the business of makinq retail sales of tanoible person property which is titled
or reqistered with an aqencv of the State of Illinois at a location in the County In

 

the?amele?sueh?Fetailer shall file a final return under this article with the
Department not later than one calendar month after making the last sale at retail.
All taxes due to be paid to the County shall be remitted to the County at?the time
the final return is filed with the Department.

to) Tax collector Annual Return. Tax collectors shall file an annual
information return, on forms and including such information as prescribed by the
Department, on the last day of the month following the year for which the return is

 

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 101

Any retailer filing an informm return under this section shall also
report, for the purpose of paying taxes due thereon, the total tax, if any, imposed
upon it for the use of tangible personal property purchased by it for its own use,
where such tax was not otherwise collected by the selling retailer. Such filing
retailer shall remit the tax to the Department when filing such return.

 




 



netreeu- 

 

Sec. 74-278. Resellers of tangible personal property.

If a purchaser is not registered with the Department as a tax
collector, but claims to be a reseller of tangible personal property in such a way

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 102

that the purchaser's use is not taxable under this article, such purchaser shall
apply to the Department for a County resale number. Such applicant shall state
facts which demonstrate to the Department why the applicant is not liable for tax
under this article and shall furnish such additional information as the Department
may reasonably require.

Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The Department may cancel any such number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to make a use tax-free purchase when the
purchaser in fact is not a purchaser for resale, or where the purchaser has
discontinued the reselling of property. Except as provided in this section, no use
shall be made tax-free on grounds of the retailer's sale being a sale for resale
unless the purchaser has an active County registration number or County resale
number from the Department, and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any use by such purchaser is
nontaxable because of the retailer's sale being a sale for resale.

(deleted since this language is included
in the current and amended Sec 34-60 Uniform Penalties,
Interest and Procedures Ordinance).

 








 
 


ether?means?




Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 103

Sec 74-279. Duty of department to collect.

It shall be the duty of the Department to collect and receive the tax
imposed by this article. The Department shall keep an accurate and separate
account of all such tax payments received by it showing the name and address of
the person remitting the tax and the date of each payment. The Director is hereby
empowered to adopt, promulgate and enforce, rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this article, relating to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this article, including provisions for examination, reexamination,
correction and amendment of all returns filed or required to be filed pursuant to
this article or request the Department of Administrative Hearing to conduct
hearings, to aid in establishing liability for payment of taxes due under this article.
The Director or any person designated by the Director, including but not limited to
the County Auditor, is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and
records of any tax collector during regular business hours, in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made, to ascertain the tax
imposed by this article.

Sec. 74-280. Tax Additional.

The tax imposed in this article is in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the County, the State or any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.

moved to Sec 74?275.

 

 

alaebasiaess-hears?Baeksrpa ears

I I
-

I. 


 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

Sec. 74-281. Aircraft Hanqar and Watercraft Dock Operators.

Aircraft Hangar and Watercraft Dock operator registration. To
enforce the collection of Use Tax on aircraft and watercraft titled or reqistered at
a location in Cook County with an agency of the State of Illinois, every aircraft
hanoar and watercraft dock operator, as described in this article. shall reqisler
with the Department within 30 days of the effective date of this ordinance.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 104

bl Docking facilitv information returns. Aircraft hanger and watercraft
dock operators shall file an annual information return on forms, includinq such
information as prescribed by the Department, on the last day of the month
followinq the vear for which the return is due.

Sec 74-252. Violations; penalty.

Anv person determined to have violated this article, as amended. shall be
subiect to a fine of $1 .00000 for the first offense, and a fine of $2,000.00 for the
second and each subsequent offense. Separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue anv such
violation. omermit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. It shall be
deemed a violation of this article for any person to knowingly furnish false or
inaccurate information to the Department. Criminal prosecution pursuant to this
article shall in no wav bar the right of the Countv to institute civil proceedings to
recover delinquent taxes, interest and penalty due and owing as well as costs

incurred for such proceeding.

Sec. 74-283. App?cation of Uniform Penalties, Interest and Procedures
Ordinance.

Whenever not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article or whenever
this chapter is silent, the provisions of the uniform penaities, interest and
procedures ordinance, Chapter 34, Article Uniform Penalties, Interest and
Procedures. of this Code shall applv and supplement this Article.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2l1l11.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310971). Commissioner Steele
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Home Rule County

Yeas:

Nays:

Absent:

Use Tax Ordinance (Communication No. 310971)
Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Suffredin, and
Tobolski (12)

Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)

Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Home Rule County Use Tax
Ordinance (Communication No. 310971) was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310972, for

consideration.

310972

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 105

AMENDMENT TO THE COOK COUNTY LAW LIBRARY FILING FEE
ORDINANCE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President,
Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin
Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski,
County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
LAW LIBRARY FILING FEE ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, 55 ILCS 5/5?39001 authorizes the clerk of all civil trial courts at the
county seat of government to collect a filing fee to defray the cost of operating
and maintaining a county law library; and

WHEREAS, P.A. 96-0227, effective August 11, 2009, authorizes counties in
Illinois to increase the County Law Library Filing Fee to defray the cost of
operating and maintaining law libraries to a maximum of $21 in 2011; and

WHEREAS, P.A. 96-0227 was supported by many other counties around the
state including: DeKalb, DuPage, Kane, Kendall, Lake, Madison, McHenry,
McLean, St. Clair, Tazewell, Will and Winnebago Counties; and

WHEREAS, prior to RA. 96-0227, the General Assembly only increased the
maximum filing fee by three dollars, during the previous 20 years, which is less
than half of the CPI increase during that same time?period; and

WHEREAS, the current $18 dollars is inadequate in defraying the expenses the
Cook County Law Library; and

WHEREAS, unlike many businesses, the Library?s revenues and expenses
fluctuate independent of the Library?s influences, cases filed in the courts, patron
traffic, inflationary increases on books and online legal publications all influence
the revenues and expenses of the Library; and

WHEREAS, a misperception exists that all relevant legal information is freely
available online to the average citizen, when, the average citizen does not have
subscriptions to online legal publications; and

WHEREAS, county law libraries provide the general public with access to justice,
which includes both pint and electronic legal information and research assistance
that they would not be able to access anywhere else; and

WHEREAS, Cook County?s Law Library is a National Hub Law Library which
provides citizens with access to over a quarter of a million print titles and several
online legal databases and with seven branch libraries, it is the only law library in
the area that is freely available to all people without restriction; and

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 106

WHEREAS, Other counties law library filing fees are much higher than Cook?s,
for example: Los Angeles' filing fee, a similarly sized county, is $24, Sacramento,
CA San Francisco, CA San Diego, CA Alameda, CA El
Paso, TX King, WA and Wayne, Ml and

WHEREAS, it is critical that the Library maintain a collection and professional
staff which can meet the needs of the Law Library?s patrons including attorneys,
state and federal judges, law clerks, law librarians, self-represented litigants,
administrative law judges, public librarians, paralegal students and the general
public seeking legal information.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is
hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be
as shown below:

Fees, Rates, Charges

Code Section Description (in dollars)
CHAPTER 50, LIBRARIES
50-31 County Law Library fee 48:00 21.00

Effective Date:This Ordinance Amendment shall be effective one month after
adop?on.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2/1/11.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310972). Commissioner Beavers
called for a, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Yeas:

Nays:

Absent:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Law Library

Filing Fee Ordinance (Communication No. 310972)
Commissioner Beavers, Chairman Daley, Commissioners Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele,
Suffredin, and Tobolski (13)

Commissioner Collins (1)

Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Law Library Filing Fee
Ordinance (Communication No. 310972) was approved and adopted.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 10'!

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310973, for

consideration.

310973

PROPOSED ORDINANCE REGARDING ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSING
FEES FOR MBEIWBE CERTIFICATION (PROPOSED ORDINANCE).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President,
Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin
Reyes, Peter N. Silvestri, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and
Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSING FEES FOR MBEIWBE CERTIFICATION

WHEREAS, Cook County (the ?County?) is committed to a policy of preventing
discrimination in the award of or participation in Cook County contracts and
eliminating arbitrary barriers to full participation in such contracts by all persons,
regardless of race, sex or ethnicity. The County has therefore adopted a Minority
and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance to ensure that minority
and women owned businesses are provided full and equal opportunity to
participate in County contracts.

WHEREAS, the Office of Contract Compliance is the steward of the County?s
directory of Minority Business Enterprises and Women Business Enterprises and
manages the application process along with the data, ensuring that participating
businesses are legitimately minority-or female owned, in accordance with the
MNV BE Ordinance.

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners desires to establish fair
and reasonable fees to administer the program to off set the cost of processing
the certification applications, conducting site visits to verify the information on the
application is accurate and maintaining the database.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter
34 Finance, Article IV, Division 6, Subdivision I, Section 34-283 of the Cook
County Code is hereby created as follows:

Sec. 34-283. Processing Fees

in the event an individual or entity desires to obtain MNVBE
certification the Office of Contract Compliance may collect a $200.00 fee for
processing the application for such certification.

In the event an individual or entity desires to recertify their MNVBE
certification, the Office of Contract Compliance may collect a $100.00 fee for
such recertification.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 108

The Office of Contract Compliance may collect a $50.00 fee for
processing any ?no change" affidavits in connection with certified MNVBE
businesses.

All monies generated from these administrative fees shall be transacted
through the Bureau of Finance.

All fees included in this Section 34-283 may be adjusted upon approval of the
Bureau of Finance.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32?1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 32-1 Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections
shall be as shown below:
Code Section Description Fees, Rates,
Charges

(in dollars)

CHAPTER 34
34-283(a) MNV BE Certification Fee $200.00
34-283(b) MNV BE Recertification Fee $100.00
34-283(c) ?No Change? Affidavit Procession

Fee 50.00
Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be effective upon its passage by the

Cook County Board of Commissioners.
*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2I1I11.
Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the

Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310973). Commissioner Steele
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 109

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Minority and Women

Yeas:

Nays:

Absent:

Business Enterprise Ordinance (Communication No. 310973)

Chairman Daley and Commissioners Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele, Su?redin, and
Tobolski (12)

Commissioners Beavers and Collins (2)

Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the Minority and Women Business
Enterprise Ordinance (Communication No. 310973) was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310974, for

consideration.

310974

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 110

AN ORDINANCE REGARDING GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS
DATA AND MAP PRODUCTION FEE (PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting
a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President, Jerry Butler,
John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Deborah
Sims, Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County
Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

 

ORDINANCE REGARDING GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
SYSTEMS DATA AND MAP PRODUCTION FEE

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2,
Article IV, Division 3, Subdivision II, Section 2-220 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances is hereby created as follows:

Section 2-220. IGIS Data and Map Production Fee.

(3) De?nitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used
in this Section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Commercial User means any person seeking County GIS Data for the
purpose of furthering a commercial enterprise.

County means Cook County.

Geographic Information System means the organized collection of
computer hardware, software, and geographic data designed to efficiently
capture, store, update, manipulate, analyze, and display all forms of
geographically referenced information operated and maintained by the County.

GIS Data means all forms of digital geographically referenced digital
information or data, legally disclosable and generated by the County's
Geographic Information System, including, but not limited to, the types of data set
forth in Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

Map means a product that? is a visual depiction, image, or picture of data,
whether digital or hardcopy.

Noncommercial User means any of the following: a not-for-profit
organization established under the laws of Illinois or another state; an
organization exempt under Section 501(0) 3 of the Internal Revenue Code; a
municipality, county or unit of local government of the State of Illinois, the State of
Illinois and its departments or agencies; or an educational institution such as a
college, university, or public or private secondary or college preparatory school.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 111

Primary Custodian means a County agency or department that creates,
develops or owns GIS Data.

Internet Access. All standard hardcopy countywide Maps will be
placed on the County?s website in a .PDF format and available for download free
of charge.

(0) Fees. GIS Data shall be provided at no charge to Noncommercial
Users. The Bureau of Technology shall charge fees to any Commercial User for GIS
Data as set forth in Section 32-1 of this Code.

Annual Increases in Fees. The charges set forth in the GIS fee
schedule shall be increased on an annual basis for any GIS Data provided after
January 1, 2011. The amount of such increase shall be the percentage increase in the
Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (utilizing the index which includes Cook
County) from January 1, 2011, to January 1 of the calendar year in which such GIS
Data is being provided. The amount of such increase will be calculated by the
Department of Finance.

Deposit of Fees. All fees from sales of GIS Data shall be deposited in
the GIS special use fund described in Section 2-214 of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances.

Authorized Uses of GIS Data. Commercial Users are authorized to
utilize the GIS Data in furtherance of its commercial enterprise by incorporating the
GIS Data with other data compiled or provided by the Commercial User in programs,
packages or data created by the Commercial User and providing access to and use
of such programs, packages or data to others (including Internet access) in the
conduct of the Commercial User?s business. All other uses of GIS Data are
prohibited.

Noncommercial Users may use GIS Data only for charitable, educational or
research purposes and not for the purpose of furthering a commercial enterprise.
Noncommercial Users may permit access to and use of the data only by individuals
employed or otherwise authorized by the Noncommercial User to perform such
research or accomplish such purpose on behalf of the Noncommercial User. All uses
of the data not specifically permitted by this subsection are prohibited to
Noncommercial Users.

Except for the authorized uses of GIS Data set forth above in this subsection,
commercial and Noncommercial Users are prohibited from duplicating, copying or
publishing (including publishing on the internet) all or a substantial portion of any GIS
Data, or transferring, distributing or providing all or a substantial portion of any GIS
Data to any other person or entity.

No Representations or Warranties. The provision of GIS Data by the
County shall not constitute a representation or warranty by the County, its
commissioners, employees, independently elected officials and any officer or agent
affiliated with the County (collectively, ?County and Agents?) that any GIS Data is

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 112

accurate, complete or suitable for the purposes of the user and the County and
Agents expressly disclaims any and all liability arising from the inaccuracy,
incompleteness or unsuitability of any GIS Data, which is provided on an ?as is" basis.

Transaction Database. The Bureau of Technology shall develop an
online interactive database through which all requests and payments for GIS Data
disseminated by the Bureau of Technology may be accomplished. The Bureau of
Technology is authorized to develop appropriate forms and promulgate reasonable
rules, regulations and policies to effectuate the provisions of this ordinance.

Primary Custodians not Restricted. This Ordinance shall not be
construed to restrict or abridge the rights of any Primary Custodian to sell, lease, or
otherwise disseminate data such Primary Custodian produces regardless of whether
such data is ultimately to form a part of GIS Data.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 32 Fees, Section 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as
follows:

Sec. 32-1 Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections
shall be as shown below:

Code Description Fees, Rates, Charges
(in dollars)

2-220(c) Parcel:
2-220(c) Individual Parcel (less than 100), per parcel 1.00
2-220(c) Township 5,000.00
2?220(c) Countywide 55,000.00
2-220(c) Imagery:
2-220(c) 2008 USGS Ortho (SID) 500.00
2-220(c) 2008 USGS Ortho (TIF) 1,500.00
2-220(c) 2008 Oblique (ECW) 2,000.00
2-220(c) 2008 Oblique (JPEG) 2,000.00
2-220(c) 2006?8 Street (JPEG) 2,000.00
2-220(c) 2009 Ortho (SID) entire county 1,000.00
2-220(c) 2009 Ortho (SID) per township 100.00
2-220(c) 2009 Ortho (TIF) entire county 3,000.00
2-220(c) 2009 Ortho (TIF) per tile 25.00
2-220(c) Cadastral Tax: Right-of?Way, Condominium,

and Lot 2,500.00
2-220(c) Tax District: Municipality, School, Park, Library

and TIF 500.00
2-2-20(c) Planimetry: Major Road, Street Midline, Railroad,

Railroad Station, Stream, Lake and
Intersections 3,000.00

Finance Committee Report
Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011

Page 113

2-220(c) Cook County Political: Congressional, State Senate,

State Representative, County Commissioner, Municipal

Ward, Board of Review, Judicial, Mayoral

Conference 300.00
2-220(c) Cultural: Public School, Private School, Hospital

and Cemetery 250.00
2-220(c) Public Survey: Section, Survey Township, Political

and County 100.00
2-220(c) Census: Block, Block Group and Tract 250.00
2-220(c) Terrain: One-foot contour 3,000.00
2-220(c) Miscellany:
2-220(c) Election Precinct 100.00
2-220(c) Zip Code 100.00
2?220(c) Address Point 1,000.00
2-220(c) Custom Mapping: Per hour labor fee (in 15 minute

and a 15% administrative fee. 47.00
2-220(c) Highway System Map, 7/10 inch one mile, 1:90,000,

Color 20.00
2-220(c) Countywide Commissioner District Map, 7/10 inch one

mile, 1:90,000, 30?x36", color 20.00
2-220(c) Township Maps, 4 inches one mile, 1:15,840,

approximate size 30?x30?, color 20.00
2-220(c) Municipal Map, 7/10 inch=one mile, 1:90,000, 30?x36".

Color 25.00
2-220(c) Cook County Atlas (with highwayjurisdiction),

Approximate size 2 1/2 inches= one mile, dimensions:
3/8?x1 1 "x17?, Color 75.00

Effective Date: This Ordinance is effective upon passage.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2l1l11.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance (Communication No. 310974). Commissioner Steele called for a roll
call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Ordinance establishing a Geographic
Information System Data and Map Production Fee (Communication No. 310974)

Yeas:

Nays:

Absent:

Commissioner Beavers, Chairman Daley, Commissioners Gainer, Garcia,
Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims, Steele,
Suffredin, and Tobolski (13)

Commissioner Collins (1)

Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 114

The motion carried and the Proposed Ordinance to establish a Geographic Information
System Data and Map Production Fee (Communication No. 310974) was approved and
adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310975, for
consideration.

310975 RESTATEMENT OF AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF
AN AGREEMENT FOR A LINE OF CREDIT AND RELATED DOCUMENTS
AND THE ISSUANCE OF ONE OR MORE PROMISSORY NOTES IN
CONNECTION THEREWITH (PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a
Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President, Jerry Butler,
John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin Reyes, Deborah
Sims. Robert B. Steele, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County
Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

RESTATEMENT OF AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF
AN AGREEMENT FOR A LINE OF CREDIT AND RELATED DOCUMENTS

WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois provides that ?a County which has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the
electors of the County (is) a Home Rule Unit" and The County of Cook, Illinois
(the ?County?), has a Chief Executive Officer elected by the electors of the
County and is therefore a Home Rule Unit and may, under the power granted by
said Section 6(a) of Article VII of the Constitution of 1970, as supplemented by
the Local Government Debt Reform Act, as amended, the exercise any
power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs,
including, but not limited to, the power to tax and to incur debt; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the County has the power to
incur debt payable from any lawful source and maturing within 40 years from the
time it is incurred without prior referendum approval; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the County (the ?Board?) has not
adopted any ordinance, resolution, order or motion or provided any County Code
provisions which restrict or limit the exercise of the home rule powers of the
County in the issuance of general obligation full faith and credit notes without
referendum for corporate purposes or which provides any special rules or
procedures for the exercise of such power; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance 06-0-31 adopted on the 12th day of July,
2006 (the ?Prior Authorizing Ordinance?) and pursuant to Ordinance 08?0-13
adopted on the 6?1 day of February, 2008 (the ?Prior Authorizing Ordinance as
Amended"), hereinafter referred to collectively as the ?Prior Authorizing
Ordinances? the Board heretofore determined it to be advisable, necessary and
in the best interests of the County that the County authorize the execution and

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 115

delivery of an agreement for a line of credit; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Prior Authorizing Ordinances, the Board authorized
the issuance of one or more promissory notes to evidence the obligation to repay
the principal of and interest on amounts drawn down by the County under such
Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the Prior Authorizing Ordinances provided for the execution of one
or more Note Orders (as hereinafter defined) setting forth certain details of any
such agreement and note, all within certain limitations (being, collectively, the
?Prior Parameters?) and as set forth in the Prior Authorizing Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, to date no such agreement has been executed and no note has
been issued pursuant to the Prior Authorizing Ordinances; and

WHEREAS, the Board now expressly determines that it is advisable and
necessary that an agreement be executed and that one or more such notes be
issued; and

WHEREAS, to such end it is hereby deemed advisable and necessary that the
Board now specify, determine, amend and restate the Prior Parameters and
amend and restate the Prior Authorizing Ordinances; and

WHEREAS, to such end it is hereby deemed advisable and necessary that the
Board now adopts this Ordinance.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of The
County of Cook, Illinois, as follows:

ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
Section 1.1. Definitions:

A. The following words and terms are defined in the preambles
hereto:

Act
Board
County
Prior Authorizing Ordinance
Prior Parameters
B. The following words and terms used in this Ordinance shall have

the following meanings unless the context or use indicates another or different
meaning:

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 116

Advance for Value means a receipt of funds by the County under the
Agreement and relative to the Note which is a loan advance on and partial
purchase price consideration for the Note, to be evidenced as provided in the
Note form.

Agreement means that certain written agreement providing for the
creation of a line of credit for the County and the issuance of one or more Notes
to evidence the obligation of the County to repay amounts due and owing
thereunder.

Chief Financial Of?cer means the Chief Financial Officer of the County.
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Designated Of?cer means the President, Chief Financial Officer or any
other office or employee of the County so designated by a written instrument
signed by the President or the Chief Financial Officer.

Face Amount means the authorized maximum amount of the Note, as
stated on its face.

Fixed Rate Note means a Note bearing interest at a fixed rate percent per
annum.

Floating Rate Note means a Note bearing interest at a rate percent per
annum which is subject to change from time to time, payable from time to time,
and subject to various options for payment by the owners thereof, as more fully
provided for in the Agreement.

Maturity Date means the date on whichathe principal of the Note is due
and owing under the Agreement.

Note Order means the 2011 Note Order and Notification of Sale to be
executed by the Chief Financial Officer and setting forth certain details of the
Agreement and the Note as hereinafter provided.

Note Register means the books of the County kept by the Note Registrar
to evidence the registration and transfer of the Note.

Note Registrar means the institution or person so designated and defined
in the Note Order, or successors or assigns.

Ordinance means this Ordinance as originally introduced and adopted
and as the same may from time to time be amended or supplemented in
accordance with the terms hereof.

Paying Agent means the institution, having fiduciary power, or person so
designated and defined in the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 117

Note Order, or successors or assigns.

Purchase Price means the price paid to the County by the Purchaser for
the Note.

Purchaser means the purchaser of the Note as so identified in the Note
Order.

Regular Record Date means the fifteenth day before any interest payment
date on the Note or such other date as may be provided in the Note Order.

Taxable means, with reference to the Note, the status of interest paid and
received thereon as includable in the gross income of the owners thereof under
the Code for federal income tax purposes.

Tax Exempt means, with respect to the Note, the status of interest paid
and received thereon as excludable from the gross income of the owners thereof
under the Code for federal income tax purposes, except to the extent that such
interest is taken into account in computing an adjustment used in determining the
alternative minimum tax for certain corporations.

Section 1.2. Severability of Invalid Provisions: If any section, paragraph,
clause or provision of this

Ordinance shall be held invalid, the invalidity of such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect any of the other provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 1.3. Short Title: This Ordinance may hereafter be cited by the County
or hereinafter referred to as the 2040 ?g Line of Credit Ordinance.?

ARTICLE II. DETERMINATIONS OF THE COUNTY.

Section 2.1. Findings: The Board hereby finds and determines that (A).the
Prior Authorizing Ordinances shall be amended and restated as set forth in this
Ordinance; (B) all of the recitals contained in the preambles to this Ordinance are
full, true and correct and hereby incorporates them into this Ordinance by this
reference; (C) this Ordinance is adopted pursuant to Section 6 of Article VII of the
Illinois Constitution of 1970; (D) it is necessary and in the best interests of the
County that the County adopt this Ordinance; (E) it is necessary and in the best
interests of the County that the Agreement be executed so as to provide for the
timely defraying of necessary expenses incurred by the County for its corporate
purposes; and (F) the execution of the Agreement, the borrowing of money for
the purposes authorized therein and the issuance of the Note is for a proper
public purpose and is in the public interest.

Section 2.2. Execution of the Agreement Authorized: The County is hereby
authorized to enter into the Agreement with the Purchaser in such form as shall
be approved by the Chief Financial Officer, and by majority poll, not subject to

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 118

ratification or cancellation by the Board or its members, of all members of the
Board, which form shall be as is deemed usual and customary in the municipal
bond market and may include, without limitation, terms providing for posted
security for one or more Notes, assignment of taxes, drawdown conditions,
repayment provisions, and provisions for default, provided, however, that in the
event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of this Ordinance and the
Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Ordinance shall in all events control.
The Chief Financial Of?cer be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered and
directed to execute, and her execution thereof shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the approval of any and all terms contained in the Agreement by the
Board, and the County Clerk be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered and
directed to attest the Agreement in the name, for and on .behalf of the County,
and thereupon to cause the Agreement to be delivered to the counterparty
thereto. The Agreement (as executed) is entered into to provide for the loan of
the proceeds of the Note to the County and the use of such proceeds as
aforesaid and to pay the costs of issuing the Note, in the manner and with the
effect therein provided. From and after the execution and delivery of the
Agreement, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to
execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with
the provisions of the Agreement as executed; and the Agreement shall constitute,
and hereby is made, a part of this Ordinance, and a copy of the Agreement shall
be placed in the official records of the County, and shall be available for public
inspection at the office of the County Clerk.

Section 2.3. Note Authorized: For the purposes aforesaid, the Note is hereby
authorized to be issued as a drawdown note in the aggregate principal amount of
not to exceed $100,000,000.

Section 2.4. Note Details: The Note shall be issued in the principal amount of
not to exceed $100,000,000 and shall bear such title and series designation as
the Chief Financial Officer shall determine in the Note Order. The Note may be a
Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note as provided in the Note Order. The Note
shall be dated as of the first Advance for Value on the Note or as otherwise
provided in the Agreement (any such date being the ?Dated Date"), and the
amount of the Note issued, being the sum of the amounts as shown as Advances
for Value on the Note, not in excess of the Face Amount, less in each case
principal payments made from time to time thereon, shall be the ?Outstanding
Principal Amount? of the Note. The Outstanding Principal Amount of the Note
from time to time outstanding shall bear interest at not to exceed a rate percent
per annum which is ten percent with interest payable on such date or
dates as provided in the Agreement, upon any prepayment and on the Maturity
Date. The Maturity Date shall be not later than November 30, 2014.

The Note shall bear interest on the Outstanding Principal Amount from
time to time at the rate provided, in each case from the time advanced until duly
paid or provided for, such interest being computed upon the basis of a 360-day
year of twelve 30-day months.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 119

Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the interest on and all
payments of principal of the Note shall be payable in lawful money of the United
States of America, or by electronic funds transfer of lawful money of the United
States of America, upon presentation at the office of the Note Registrar,
provided, however, that so long as a ?nancial institution is the registered owner of
the Note, then such payments shall be made by check or draft of the Note
Registrar to the person in whose name the Note is registered as evidenced by
the Note Register at the close of business on the applicable Regular Record
Date, which check or draft shall be payable in lawful money of the United States
of America and mailed to the address or transferred to such account of such
registered owner as it appears on the Note Register or at such other address or
account as may be furnished in writing to the Note Registrar, and provided,
further, that the final installment of principal of and interest on the Note shall be
paid upon surrender in lawful money of the United States of America, at the
principal office maintained for the purpose by the Paying Agent or its proper
agent

If so provided in the Note Order, the Note may be redeemable or
prepayable prior to maturity at the option of the County, in whole or in part on any
date, upon such terms and at such times and at a redemption or prepayment
price of par plus accrued interest to the date of redemption or prepayment, as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of the sale thereof.

The Note shall have be substantially in the form attached to the
Agreement and as approved by the Chief Financial Officer, his execution thereof
to constitute approval of all terms set forth therein by the Board, and shall have
impressed or imprinted thereon the corporate seal or facsimile thereof of the
County and shall be signed by the manual or duly authorized facsimile signatures
of the Chief Financial Of?cer and County Clerk, as they shall determine, and in
case any officer whose signature shall appear on the Note shall cease to be such
officer before the delivery of the Note, such signature shall nevertheless be valid
and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office
until delivery.

The execution by the County of the fully registered Note shall constitute
full and due authorization of the Note, and the Note Registrar shall thereby be
authorized to authenticate, date and deliver the Note. The person in whose name
the Note shall be registered shall be deemed and regarded as the absolute
owner thereof for all purposes, and payment of the principal of or interest on the
Note shall be made only to or upon the order of the registered owner thereof or
the owner?s legal representative. All such payments shall be valid and effectual to
satisfy and discharge the liability upon the Note to the extent of the sum or sums
so paid.

The Note shall have thereon a certificate of authentication duly executed
by the Note Registrar as authenticating agent of the County and showing the
date of authentication. The Note shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose
or be entitled to any security or benefit under this Ordinance unless and until
such certificate of authentication shall have been duly executed by the Note

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 120

Registrar by manual signature, and such certificate of authentication upon the
Note shall be conclusive evidence that the Note as been authenticated and
delivered under this Ordinance. The certificate of authentication on the Note shall
be deemed to have been executed by the Note Registrar if signed by an
authorized officer of the Note Registrar.

Section 2.5. Sale and Delivery of Note: The Chief Financial Officer is hereby
authorized to sell all or any portion of the Note to the Purchaser from time to time
as the Chief Financial Officer shall determine that the proceeds of such sales are
needed and on such terms as he may deem to be in the best interests of the
County. Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall limit the sale of the Note or any
portion thereof or any maturity or maturities thereof at a price or prices in excess
of the principal amount thereof. Subsequent to the sale of the Note or
subsequent to the sale of any portion thereof, the Chief Financial Officer shall file
in the office of the County Clerk a Note Order directed to the Board identifying 
the terms of the sale, (ii) the amount, if any, of the Note being sold as a Floating
Rate Note, the Dated Date, (iv) the aggregate principal amount of the Note
sold, (V) the repayment schedule for the principal of and interest on the Note, (vi)
the optional redemption provisions, if any, applicable to the Note, (vii) whether
the Note is Tax Exempt or Taxable and any other matter authorized by this
Ordinance to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer at the time of sale of
the Note, and thereafter the Note as so sold shall be duly prepared and executed
in the form and manner provided herein and delivered to the Purchaser in
accordance with the terms of sale.

Any Designated Officer and such other officers of the County as may be
necessary are hereby authorized to execute such other documents, as may be
necessary to implement the Agreement and the transactions contemplated
thereby and to effect the issuance and delivery of the Note, and execution thereof
by such officers is hereby deemed conclusive evidence of approval thereof with
such changes, additions, insertions, omissions or deletions as such officers may
determine, with no further official action of or direction by the Board.

Section 2.6. Use of Proceeds: The proceeds of the Note shall be used to
provide funds for the payment of necessary expenses incurred for the general
corporate purposes of the County and to that and shall be set aside in the
Working Cash Fund (the ?Working Cash Fund?) and shall be used to pay the
general corporate expenses of the County in accordance with customary
disbursement procedures of the County. Alternatively, the Chief Financial Officer
may allocate the proceeds of the Note to one or more other funds or accounts of
the County now in existence. The County by its Board reserves the right, as it
becomes necessary from time to time, to change the purposes of expenditure of
the Working Cash Fund or its accounts, to change priorities, to revise cost
allocations between expenditures and to substitute projects, in order to meet
current needs of the County; subject, however, to the provisions of the tax
covenants of the County relating to the Tax Exempt status of interest on the Note
if it is issued as Tax Exempt.

Section 2.7. General Tax Covenants: In the event that the Note is issued as

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 121

Tax Exempt, the provisions of this Section shall apply. The County covenants
that it will take no action with respect to the proceeds of the Note which would
result in making the interest payable on the Note subject to federal income taxes
by reason of the Note being classified as an ?arbitrage bond? within the meaning
of Section 148 of the Code or rulings or regulations promulgated thereunder.

The County also agrees and covenants with the purchaser and registered
owner of the Note from time to time outstanding that, to the extent possible under
Illinois law, it will comply with whatever federal tax law is adopted in the future
which applies to the Note and affects the status of the interest on the Note as Tax
Exempt, if the Note is issued as Tax Exempt; that without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, the County agrees: through its officers, to make such further
specific covenants, representations and assurances as may be necessary or
advisable; to comply with all representations, covenants and assurances
contained in a certification regarding tax exemption to be prepared by counsel
approving the Note; to consult with such counsel and to comply with such
advice as may be given; to pay to the United States, as necessary, such
sums of money representing required rebates of excess arbitrage profits relating
to the Note; to file such forms, statements and supporting documents as may
be required and in a timely manner; and if deemed necessary or advisable by
its officers, to employ and pay fiscal agents, financial advisers, attorneys and
other persons to assist the County in such compliance; and that the County
acknowledges that, in the event of an examination by the Internal Revenue
Service of the exemption from Federal income taxation for interest paid on the
Note, under present rules, the County is treated as the ?taxpayer" in such
examination.

Section 2.8. Registered Form: The County agrees that it will not take any
action to permit the Note, if it is issued as Tax Exempt, to be issued in, or
converted into, bearer or coupon form.

ARTICLE MISCELLANEOUS.

Section 3.1. Ratification of Acts: All acts of the Board, the Designated
Officers and the officers and employees of the County that are in conformity with
the intent and purposes of this Ordinance, whether heretofore or hereafter taken
or done, be, and the same are hereby, in all respects, ratified, confirmed and
approved.

Section 3.2. Superseder: All ordinances, resolutions, motions, orders or parts
thereof in conflict with this Ordinance including, specifically, the Prior Authorizing
Ordinances, are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby superseded. The Prior
Authorizing Ordinances are hereby amended and restated as hereinabove set
forth.

Section 3.3. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be immediately operative,
effective and valid upon its passage and approval.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2/1/11.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 122

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Schneider, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance restating a previous ordinance establishing a line of credit and
related documents (Communication No. 310975). Prior to a vote on the main motion,
Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, moved to amend the main
motion by approval of Substitute Amendment A to Communication No. 310975. The
motion carried, and Communication No. 310975 was amended, as follows:

SUBSTITUTE AMENDMENT A TO COMMUNICATION NUMBER 310975
(Changes are in bold and WW)

Sponsored by:

THE HONORABLE LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS GARCIA, ELIZABETH
DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOAN P. MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE, and JEFFREY TOBOLSKI,
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

ARTICLE II. DETERMINATIONS OF THE COUNTY

Section 2. 2 Execution of the Agreement Authorized. The County is hereby authorized to
enter into the Agreement with the Purchaser in such form as shall be approved by the Chief
Financial Officer, and by majority WW, 

which form shall be as is deemed usual and customary in the municipal bond market and may
include, without limitation, terms providing for posted security for one or more Notes,
assignment of taxes, drawdown conditions, repayment provisions, and provisions for default,
provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of this
Ordinance and the Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Ordinance shall in all events
control. The Chief Financial Officer be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to
execute, and her execution thereof shall constitute conclusive evidence of the approval of any
and all terms contained in the Agreement by the Board, and the County Clerk be, and hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to attest the Agreement in the name, for and on behalf of
the County, and thereupon to cause the Agreement to be delivered to the counterparty thereto.
The Agreement (as executed) is entered into to provide for the loan of the proceeds of the Note
to the County and the use of such proceeds as aforesaid and to pay the costs of issuing the
Note, in the manner and with the effect therein provided. From and after the execution and
delivery of the Agreement, the officers, employees and agents of the County are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such
documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the Agreement
as executed; and the Agreement shall constitute, and hereby is made, a part of this Ordinance,
and a copy of the Agreement shall be placed in the official records of the County, and shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the County Clerk.

Section 2.3. Note Authorized: For the purposes aforesaid, the Note is hereby authorized to be
issued as a drawdown note in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed $200,000,000.

Section 2.4. Note Details: The Note shall be issued in the principal amount of not to exceed
$200,000,000 and shall bear such title and series designation as the Chief Financial Officer

Finance Committee Report -

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 123

Note or as otherwise provided in the Agreement (any such date being the ?Dated Date"), and
the amount of the Note issued, being the sum of the amounts as shown as Advances for Value
on the Note, not in excess of the Face Amount, less in each case principal payments made from
time to time thereon, shall be the ?Outstanding Principal Amount? of the Note. The Outstanding
Principal Amount of the Note from time to time outstanding shall bear interest at not to exceed a
rate percent per annum which is ten percent with interest payable on such date or
dates as provided in the Agreement, upon any prepayment and on the Maturity Date. The
Maturity Date shall be not later than November 30, 2014.

Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance (Communication No. 310975), as amended. Commissioner Steele
called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Ordinance restating a previous
ordinance regarding a line of credit and promissory notes, as amended
(Communication No. 310975)

Yeas: Commissioner Beavers, Chairman Daley, Commissioners Collins, Gainer,
Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims,
Steele, Suffredin, and Tobolski (14)

Nays: None (0)

Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Ordinance restating a previous ordinance
authorizing the execution of an agreement for a line of credit and related documents, and
the issuance of one or more promissory notes in conjunction therewith (Communication

No. 310976) as amended, was approved and adopted.

Chairman Daley then called the next item on the agenda, Communication No. 310976, for
consideration.

310976 AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCE REGARDING ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER (PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT).
Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle,
President, Jerry Butler, John P. Daley, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Edwin
Reyes, Deborah Sims, Robert B. Steele and Larry Suffredin, County Commissioners.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AMENDMENT TO THE ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE OFFICE
OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health
and Human Services, Section 38-1 and Article VI., Sections 38-110 through 38-140 of

the Cook County Code are hereby amended as follows:

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 124

Sec. 38-1. Ordinances not affected by Code.

(3) Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code repeals any
ordinance or resolution compiled in or amending the following provisions of the County's
1980 Code:

Seeders?54294464;

Section 13-185.1;

Chapter 21;

Chapter 22;

Chapter 23;

Sections 24?50?24-54.

The Ordinances or Resolutions referenced in this subsection, include, but
are not limited to the following:

Res. adopted 5-15?1911;

Res. adopted 12-10-1945;

Res. adopted 7-8?1947;

Res. adopted 11?2-1949;

Ord. adopted 11-5-1957;

Res. adopted 5-16-1960;

Res. adopted 11-29-1963;

Res. adopted 6?6-1966;

Res. adopted 5-16-1967;

Res. adopted 6-30-1967;

Res. adopted 3-5-1968;

Res. adopted 6-3-1968;

Res. adopted 12-20-1968;

Res. adopted 10-20-1969;

Ord. adopted 7?27-1976;

0rd. adopted 11-7-1977;

Res. adopted 1-7-1980;

Res. adopted 7-7-1980;

Res. adopted 9-8-1981;

Ord. No. 82?0-25, adopted 9-20-1982;
Ord. No. 83-0-32, adopted 8-1-1983;
Ord. No. 86-0-45, adopted 11-3-1986;
Ord. No. 87-0-39, adopted 9-8-1987;
Ord. No. 88?0-28, adopted 5-2-1988;
Ord. No. 91-0-46, adopted 9-16-1991;
Ord. No. 91-0-52, adopted 10-7-1991;
Ord. No. 91-0-60, adopted 10-21-1991;
Ord. No. 92-0?45, adopted 9-1-1992;

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 125

Ord. No. 97-0-28, adopted 11-18-1997;
Ord. No. 02-0-06, adopted 12?18?2001.

ARTICLE VI. MEDICAL EXAMINER.
Sec. 38-110. Office of coroner eliminated.

The office of Coroner of Cook County is hereby eliminated.
Sec. 38-111. Office created.

There is hereby created the Office of the Medical Examiner.
Sec. 38-112. Qualifications and appointment.

The Medical Examiner must be a physician licensed by the State of Illinois
to practice medicine in all its branches and must hold a certificate from the American
Board of Pathology in both Forensic Pathology and Anatomic Pathology.

The Medical Examiner shall be appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent of the Board of
Commissioners for a term of office which shall continue until the Medical Examiner
resigns or is removed for cause following notice and an opportunity to be heard.

Sec. 38-113. Duties.

The Medical Examiner has and shall exercise the powers, duties, responsibilities,
functions and authority provided by ordinance for those purposes and functions.

Any abuse by the Medical Examiner of the authority contained in this ordinance shall be
deemed cause for removal.
Sec. 38-114. Academic appointments.

Upon the approval of the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
the Medical Examiner and various personnel of his/her staff may accept academic
appointments consistent with their primary responsibilities to the office of the Medical
Examiner.

Sec. 38-115. Employees.

All employees of the Office of the Medical Examiner shall be County employees
and subject to the rules and regulations established by the Board of Commissioners.

Sec. 38-116. Yearly budget.

The Medical Examiner of Cook County shall submit to the President of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners a yearly budget requesting funds to operate and

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 126

maintain the Office of the Medical Examiner.

Sec. 38-117. Cooperative agreements.

The Medical Examiner shall have the authority to negotiate cooperative
agreements with other agencies having laboratory facilities subject to the approval of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County.

Sec. 38-118. Deaths subject to investigation.

The Medical Examiner shall investigate any human death that falls within any of
the following categories:



(C)








(I)


Criminal violence.

Suicide.

Accident.

Suddenly when in apparent good health.

Unattended by a practicing, licensed physician.
Suspicious or unusual circumstances.

Criminal abortion.

Poisoning or attributable to an adverse reaction to drugs and/or alcohol.
Diseases constituting a threat to public health.

Disease, injury or toxic agent resulting from employment.
During medical diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.

In any prison or penal institution.

When involuntarily confined in jail, prison, hospitals or other institutions or

in Police custody.





When any human body is to be cremated, dissected or buried at sea.
Unclaimed bodies.

When a dead body is brought into a new medico-Iegal jurisdiction without

proper medical certification.

Sec. 38-119. Establishing manner and cause of death.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 127

Where a death has occurred under any of the circumstances enumerated in Sec.
38-118, then an investigation, including autopsy if necessary, shall be conducted
sufficient to establish manner and cause of death, and the Medical Examiner shall
recover and retain any and all evidence for use in the investigation. He/she shall also
have the authority to retain such parts of the body as he/she deems necessary in the
public interest.

Sec. 38-120. Death certificate.

The Medical Examiner, upon completion of his/her investigation and examination,
shall cause a death certificate to be issued specifically setting forth the cause,
circumstances and manner of death, if determinable, or if undeterminable, so state.

Sec. 38-121. Death from criminal conduct procedure.

If it is the Medical Examiner's opinion that any death may have resulted
from the criminal conduct of persons other than the deceased, he/she shall immediately
notify the Office of the State's Attorney.

(Q) The Medical Examiner shall notify the proper governmental agency where,
in his/her opinion, a death resulted from an industrial hazard, from an infectious disease
process, poison or toxin potentially hazardous to the general public, from a traffic hazard
or from a common public practice which carries hazards to life or health.

Sec. 38-122. Death subject to investigation, duty to notify.

Any person, including but not limited to any law enforcement officer,
physician, nurse, ambulance attendant, hospital director or administrator, or funeral
director who shall my become aware of a death subject to investigation under Sec. 38-
118 shail my immediately report such death to the Office of the Medical Examiner or to
any law enforcement officer; any such report to a law enforcement officer shall be
immediately transmitted to the Medical Examiner.

Upon receipt of such report, the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed
representative shall go to the location of the body and take charge of same, and shall
begin his/her investigation with an examination of the scene.

No person shall disturb the scene of such death, nor shall any person
handle, move, disturb, undress, embalm, or remove the body from the position in which it
is found, until authorized by the Medical Examiner or his/her appointed representative,
except for the purpose of preserving such body from damage or destruction, or in such
cases as may be authorized by the Medical Examiner. Whenever the Medical Examiner
shall lawfully assume jurisdiction of a body, it shall not be removed or released from
his/her jurisdiction except upon his/her direction and consent.

Sec. 38-123. Order to disinter.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16,2011
Page 128

The Medical Examiner may petition the Circuit Court for an order to disinter for
the purpose of investigation or autopsy or both.

Sec. 38-124. Permission required for removal.

No dead human body whose death may be subject to investigation under Sec.
38-118, or the personal property of such a deceased person, shall be handled, removed,
disturbed, embalmed or removed from the place of death by any person except with the
permission of the Medical Examiner, unless the same shall be necessary to protect life,
safety, or health.

Sec. 38-125. Decedent's Personal Property.

The Medical Examiner shall cause an inventory to be taken whenever any
valuable personal property, money or papers are found upon or near a dead human body
whose death may be subject to investigation under Sec. 38-118.

(jg) The Medical Examiner or his/her properly authorized subordinate shall
take charge of the same and deliver the same to those entitled to its care and
possession, or otherwise properly dispose of the same; but if not claimed, the Medical
Examiner after retention of said personal property for one year and after giving ten days?
notice of the time and place of sale, shall sell such property, and after deducting Medical
Examiner?s expenses, deposit the proceeds thereof, and the money and papers so
found, with the County Treasurer, taking his/her receipt therefore, there to remain subject
to the order of the legal representatives of the deceased, if claimed within five years
thereafter, or if not claimed within that time, to vest?in?the?eeunty be used to offset the
costs for indigent burials.

Sec. 38-126. Procedures and powers in investigation into cause of death.

La) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to establish and supervise the
procedures to be utilized in the conduct of investigations necessary to establish the
cause and manner of death. The Medical Examiner, at his/her option, shall have the
powerto call and conduct public hearings in cases of public interest.

(Q) The Medical Examiner shall have the power to issue subpoenas requiring
persons to give information under oath and to produce books, records, papers or such
other documents or objects the Medical Examiner shall deem necessary to establish the
cause or manner of death. The Medical Examiner or a hearing officer acting in his/her
behalf shall have the power to administer the necessary oath or affirmation to such
witness. Any witness appearing at an investigation or public hearing shall have the right
to be represented by counsel.

Sec. 38-127. Decedent under spiritual treatment

The Medical Examiner shall not be precluded, in making his/her investigation,

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 129

from consulting with the decedent's next of kin, personal representative, friends, or the
person designated in writing by the decedent, where the decedent was under treatment
by prayer or spiritual means alone in accordance with the tenets and practices of a well-
recognized church or religious denomination, nor shall this ordinance be construed to
require an autopsy solely by reason of the fact that the decedent was under treatment by
prayer or spiritual means alone.

Sec. 38-128. Permit required for disposition of body; fee.

No person shall cause the remains of any dead human body within Cook County
to be cremated dissected or buried at sea without first obtaining a permit from the
Medical Examiner. The cost of the permit shall be $19 $50. when?ebtamed?at?the?Of-?ce

 

Sec. 38-129. Permit to cremate.

Where the remains of any dead human body are to be cremated, dissected or
buried at sea, thus becoming unavailable for later examination; it shall be the duty of the
funeral director or person having custody of the dead human body to obtain from the
Medical Examiner a permit. The Medical Examiner?s Permit shall be presented to the
local registrar' In applying for the permit for disposition of a dead human body provided for
in Section 410 ILCS 535/21 of the
?Vital Records Act,? as heretofore or hereafter amended, and the local registrar shall
attach the Medical Examiner?s permit to cremate to the permit for disposition of a dead
human body which is issued. No crematory shall cremate a dead human body unless a
permit for disposition of a dead human body with an attached Medical Examiner?s Permit
has been furnished to authorize the cremation.

Sec. 38-130. Release of the body.

Upon completion of the Medical Examiner?s investigation and examination, the
Medical Examiner shall release the body of the decedent to the decedent?s next of kin,
personal representative, friends, or to the person designated in writing by the decedent or
to the funeral director selected by such persons, as the case may be, for proper
disposition and none of the duties or powers of the Medical Examiner enumerated in this
ordinance shall be construed to interfere with or control the right of such persons to the
custody and proper disposition of the decedent upon completion of the Medical
Examiner's investigation. If there are no such persons. The Medical Examiner shall
cause the proper disposition of the decedent, if sufficient, if not, by an appropriate
government agen.cy The Medical Examiner shall have the power to dispose of any body

 

?Cadaver Act 410 ILCS 510 et seq.
Sec. 38-131. Records to be kept.

The Medical Examiner shall keep full and complete records properly
indexed, giving the name, if known, of every person whose death is investigated, the

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 130

place where and the date when the body was found and the date of death, if known. In
case the name of the decedent is not known, the Medical Examiner shall prepare a
description person and enter the same upon his/her records, together with all facts and
circumstances of the death which may be known, and which may later lead to the
identification of the dead person.

(Q) It shall be the duty of the Medical Examiner to keep on file in his/her office
full and complete records of all deaths coming under his/her jurisdiction, together with
his/her conclusions therein.

Upon completion of investigation and any related criminal proceeding, the
official report of the Medical Examiner's investigation shall be made available for
inspection to any person with substantial or important interest upon written request. A
copy of the official report may be obtained upon payment of the duplication fee. This
shall not foreclose access to other records where appropriate.

Sec. 38-132. Advisory committee.

There shall be created a Medical Examiner's Advisory?Committee appointed by
the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and consent
of the Board of Commissioners. Member shall include but not limited to persons
representing the medical profession, funeral directors, State?s Attorney, police and the
public. The members of this committee shall serve without pay, but shall be reimbursed
for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Such expenses shall
be paid from the Medical Examiner?s budget.

Sec. 38-133. Death caused by wrongful act; liability for expenses incurred.

Any person, individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity who causes the death of a
decedent by a wrongful act, carelessness, or negligence which shall be subject to a
Medical Examiner?s investigation shall be liable to pay any and all expenses incurred by
such investigation and the associated burial expenses. The same shall be recoverable by
the county.

Sec. 38-134. Transportation costs.

All transportation costs of the, body incident to the Medical Examiner's
investigation shall be recoverable from the estate of the deceased.

Sec. 38-135. Buplieatien?fee Fees.

 

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 131

The Medical Examiner shall charcke the followinq fees with the amounts as set in
Section 32-1 of this Code.

(1)
(2)
i3}

(4)

(5)

(El

(8)

Autopsy report .
Toxicoloqy report.

Miscellaneous Reports. includinq artist's drawinos, but not including police
reports.

Permit to cremate a dead human body obtained from the Office of the
Medical Examiner. by facsimile or electronic filinq.

Return fee. The Return Fee is charqed to funeral homes that pick up
bodies from the Medical Examiner's Office and then request to return
them to the Office after determininq that the family has no funds for burial.
This cost would include the cost of the burial shell and the burial cost.

Death certi?cate amendment fee. Fee is charged if the amendment is
made later than 1 year of the person's death (due to a return by Funeral
Home). The Office of the Medical Examiner is charqed by the Illinois
Department of Vital Records for amendments made to a death certificate
after 1 year of the death.

Storage fee. This fee covers the bodies returned by the Funeral Homes)
to the Office of the Medical Examiner for storaqe while families secure
funds for burial services. This "storaqe fee" would replace the "return
fee" if a funeral home returns a body and picks it up aqain within 10 days.
If the body is not picked up within 10 days, the body will be held and
buried by the County accordino to the standard ooeratino procedures of
the Medical Examiner. This "storaqe fee" discouraqes the use of the Office
of the Medical Examiner as a storaqe location by funeral homes and also
encourages the funeral directors to verify that have funds for
burial prior to removinq a body from the Office of the Medical Examiner.

 

Photoqraphs, radioquhs. and histoloqy slides.

Sec. 38-136. Debt due County.

All fees and expense reimbursements shall constitute a debt due the County of
Cook and be paid to the Medical Examiner who shall deposit the same with the County
Treasurer on the last day of every month.

Sec. 38-137. Impersonation unlawful.

It shall be unlawful for any individual to impersonate the Medical Examiner and/or
any Medical Examiner investigator.

Sec. 38-138. Penalty for violation.

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 132

Sec. 38-138. Penalty for violation.

Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this ordinance shall be fined
not more than $1,000 and imprisoned not more than six months.

Sec. 38-139. Annual report.

The Medical Examiner shall prepare and submit to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners an annual report of the activities of his/her office.

Sec. 38-140. Medical Examiner Fees Fund.

Beginning on or before March 1, 2011, the Comptroller shall create a special
revenue fund to be entitled the, "Medical Examiner Fees Fund." The revenue collected by
the Office of the Medical Examiner from all of the various fees of the Office of the Medical
Examiner shall be placed in such special fund for the Office of the Medical Examiner to
be held by the Treasurer of the County. Such revenues collected and placed in such
special fund shall only be disbursed by appropriation of the County Board and shall be
used solely for the purchase of electronic and forensic identification equipment or other
related supplies and the operating expenses of the Medical Examiner?s Office.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that
Chapter 32 Fees, Sec. 32-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 32-1. Fee schedule.

The fees or charges provided for or required by the below listed sections shall be
as shown below:

Code Section Description F993: Rates Charges

(in dollars)
CHAPTER 38, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
38?1 35(a)(1) Autopsy report 30700 
Toxicology report 45.00 

Miscellaneous Reports. including 3"?er 457992500

drawings, but not including police reports

 

Permit to cremate a dead human body 40700 50.00
Return fee 300.00
Death certificate amendment fee 15.00

50.00/day (not to
38 135(a)(71 Storage fee exceed $500.00:

Photographs, radiographs, histology actual cost or

slides $3.00 whichever is more

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 133

Effective date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon
adop?on.

*Referred to the Committee on Finance on 2I1I11.
Commissioner Steele, seconded by Commissioner Sims, moved approval of the
Proposed Ordinance Amendment (Communication No. 310976). Commissioner Steele

called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays being as follows:

Roll Call on Motion to Approve a Proposed Amendment to the Cook County
Medical Examiner Ordinance (Communication No. 310976)

Yeas: Commissioner Beavers, Chairman Daley, Commissioners Collins, Gainer,
Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Vice Chairman Sims,
Steele, Suffredin, and Tobolski (14)

Nays: None (0)

Absent: Commissioners Butler, Fritchey and Reyes (3)

The motion carried and the Proposed Amendment to the ordinance establishing the

Office of the Medical Examiner (Communication No. 310976) was approved and adopted.

COMMISSIONER GARCIA, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER STEELE,
MOVED TO ADJOURN. THE MOTION CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS
ADJOURNED.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 310964 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 310965 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 310966 Approved As Amended
Communication Number 310967 Approved
Communication Number 310968 Approved
Communication Number 310969 Approved
Communication Number 310970 Approved
Communication Number 310971 Approved
Communication Number 310972 Approved
Communication Number 310973 Approved
Communication Number 310974 Approved
Communication Number 310975 Approved As Amended

Communication Number 310976 Approved

Finance Committee Report

Public Hearing

February 10, 2011 reconvened February 15 and 16, 2011
Page 134

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Finance Committee

9:9 v? 
ye. Daley, Chairman 

 

Attest:

EH

 

 

J, ..
B. DeLeon, Secretary

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North
Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, lL 60602.

Illinois Retail Merchants Association ATTACHMENT A



19 South LaSa/le Street, 300
Chicago, Illinois 60603
TEL (312) 726-4600 FAX (312) 726-9570

February 14, 2011

The Honorable John P. Daley
Commissioner

Cook County Board

118 N. Clark Street Room 567
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Commissioner Daley:

At its last meeting of the Committee on Finance, the County Board considered a package of ordinances
submitted by the Department of Revenue regarding changes to certain home rule taxes. The members of
IRMA ask that you consider a pressing concern they have about the protection of their proprietary
business information and the unprecedented action the County is proposing to take regarding retail gas
and alcohol dea1ers.

According to the new language proposed in Sections 74-354 and 74-356 of the Cook County Alcoholic
Beverages Tax, and Sections 74-474 through 74?476 of the Cook County Gas Tax, retailers in Cook
County would have to do the following: regiSter with the county, file reports stating inventory,
purchases and sales, and maintain books and records for review upon inspection by county investigators.
Keep in mind the retailer has no relationship to the County because we pay the liquor and gasoline taxes
to our distributor. Currently, retailers are only required to register and submit information to the Illinois
Department of Revenue (IDOR) which licenses them. If Cook County of?cials have a concern about
whether tax is being collected or whether liquor or' gas is being purchased from licensed distributors,
then they can review the taxes paid on items purchased from the distributor and encourage IDOR to take
disciplinary action for noncompliance if warranted.

The amount of sales a retailer makes and the number of items they purchase on a basis affects
business decisions. The process of making these decisions, and the information companies use to make
them, is proprietary. The ability to control the ?ow of that information is essential to the continued
growth of business in Cook County. We strongly oppose any attempt by the county to expand its police
power by mandating that retailers submit this information 

The proposed changes to the Cook County Code of Ordinances are unprecedented. They would make
Cook County the only local jurisdiction in this state to add such a signi?cant and sensitive operational
burden to its businesses. At a time when the county Should be trying to attract retailers, these ordinances
are giving them more reasons to locate elsewhere. We encourage you to vote on unnecessary

burdens to the retail community.

Sincerely,

{Mas/an

Tanya Triche
Senior Counsel

