COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONERS
EARLEAN COLLINS 151 DISTRICT PETER N. SILVESTRI 9TH DISTRICT
ROBERT STEELE 2nd DISTRICT BRIDGET GAINER 10TH DISTRICT
JERRY BUTLER 3rd DISTRICT JOHN P. DALEY 11TH DISTRICT
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS 4th DISTRICT JOHN A. FRITCHEY 12TH DISTRICT
DEBORAH SIMS 5th DISTRICT LARRY SUFFREDIN 13TH DISTRICT
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY 61h DISTRICT GREGG GOSLIN 14TH DISTRICT
JESUS G. GARCIA 71h DISTRICT TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER 15TH DISTRICT
EDWIN REYES 8th DISTRICT JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI 16TH DISTRICT

 

ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN 17TH DISTRICT

TONI PRECKWINKLE

PRESIDENT

OFFICE OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

118 NORTH CLARK STREET #567
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603-6398


MATTHEW B. DELEON
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD

APRIL 26, 2011

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the Technology Committee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
on Monday, May 2, 2011 at the hour of 2:30 P.M. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118
North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois to consider the following:

312343

COOK COUNTY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY GOVERNANCE AND PROGRAM
MANAGEMENT (PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance
sponsored by Toni Preckwinkle, President and John A. Fritehey, County Commissioner.

PROPOSELI ORDINANCE

COOK COUNTY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY GOVERNANCE
AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2
Administration, Article Departments and Similar Agencies, Division 4 Bureau of
Technology, Sections 2?460 through 2-463 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as
follows:

Sec. 2-460. Cook County Bureau of Technology.

The Cook County Bureau of Technology is headed by the Cook County Chief
Information Of?cer. The Chief Information Officer shall be responsible for the
management and direction of the Bureau of Technology and shall be responsible to review
and approve County-wide technology planning and policy as well as the technological
infrastructure required among each of the County agencies and offices of the separately
elected Cook County officials. In determining County?wide technology planning and policy
as well as the required technological infrastructure, an Information Technology
Collaborative Board and Information Technology Investment Board shall be established.

Printed on Recycled Paper

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE NOTICE
APRIL 26, 201 1
PAGE2

Sec. 2-461. Cook County Information Technology Collaborative Board.

Purpose. The Cook County Information Technology Collaborative Board
Collaborative Board?) shall assist in Cook County information technology strategy and
governance. The IT Collaborative Board will assist in developing and implementing Cook
County?s enterprise information technology strategy. The primary focus of the IT
Collaborative Board will be on optimizing information technology investments through
cross?agency collaboration. This will include development of and adherence to enterprise
information technology architecture standards governing information technology hardware,
software, information security, remote access and hosting, systems integration, and shared
services. The IT Collaborative Board will have four work groups that will develop strategic
plans to advance business ef?ciencies and public value in the following areas:

(1) Integrated justice systems; and
(2) Integrated property systems; and
(3) Integrated health systems; and
(4) Integrated business systems.

a. Board Constitution. The IT Collaborative Board shall be headed by the
Cook County Chief Information Of?cer and shall include, a representative of the Of?ce of
the President, a representative from each of the of?ces of the separately elected Cook
County of?cials, and the CEO of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System or his or
her designee and other members as determined by the Chief Information Of?cer.

Sec. 2-462. Cook County Information Technology Investment Board.

The Information Technology Investment Board Investment Board?) shall
consist of the Cook County Chief Financial Of?cer and the Cook County Chief Information
Of?cer. The IT Investment Board shall assist in determining the availability of ?nancial
and technical resources necessary to implement requested technology related projects and
provide additional functions as required by this section.

Sec. 2?463. Cook County Information Technology Governance and Program
Management.
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations governing

the approval of and reporting on information technology projects in Cook County
government, including those originating in departments under the purview of the Of?ce of
the Cook County Board President, the of?ces of other elected Cook County of?cials, and
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

The approval and reporting requirements set forth in this section will apply
to any information technology project that exceeds $100,000 in total cost, or any other
information technology project that is identi?ed by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, the IT Collaborative Board, or the IT Investment Board as being subject to
these requirements. Projects subject to the requirements of this section include, but are not
limited to: new, expanded, amended and enhanced information technology projects; sole

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE NOTICE
APRIL 26, 2011
PAGE 3

source information technology projects; and professional services information technology

projects.

(C)



following steps:

Cook County information technology governance may involve the input
and collaborative decision-making of the following bodiesCollaborative Board; and

the IT Investment Board; and

the Cook County Health and Hospital System Board; and
the Cook County Information Technology Committee; and

the Cook County Board of Commissioners.

Cook County information technology governance will consist of the

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

County Departments and Agencies, including the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, and the of?ces of the separately
elected officials will submit information technology project
requests to the Cook County Bureau of Technology Program
Management Of?ce (PMO), in a manner prescribed by the PMO.
The PMO will review requests for completeness, and forward them
to the IT Collaborative Board; and

The IT Collaborative Board will evaluate, rate, prioritize, and,
where possible, make recommendations to merge or combine
information technology project requests. The IT Collaborative
Board will submit approved project requests to the IT Investment
Board; and

The IT Investment Board will determine the availability of
financial and technical resources necessary to implement requested
IT projects, and will evaluate project costs and bene?ts, any
applicable mandates, and the projected return on investment to
Cook County. The IT Investment Board will provide its
recommendation to the IT Collaborative Board, PMO andUsing
Department of Agency; and

Upon approval from the IT Collaborative Board and IT Investment
Board, the information technology project may then be presented
by the Using Department or Agency to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, or Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board for approval. The appropriate authorizing body may then
approve, defer or deny the project request or may refer the matter to
committee; and

312366

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE NOTICE
APRIL 26, 2011
PAGE 4

(5) County Departments and Agencies, including the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, and the offices of the separately
elected officials will submit regular information technology project
status reports to the PMO and the PMO will provide online project
portfolio reporting that enables County Departments and Agencies,
the authorizing bodies, and the public to monitor information
technology project expenditures and outcomes.

Information Technology projects exceeding $100,000 in total cost must
obtain the approval of the IT Collaborative Board and IT Investment Board prior to seeking
authorization from the appropriate authorizing body.

Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect upon adoption.
*Referred to the Committee on Technology on April 20, 2011.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COOK COUNTY OPEN GOVERNMENT PLAN
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Toni
Preckwinkle, President and John A. Fritchey, County Commissioner and Co-sponsored by
Bridget Gainer, Elizabeth ?Liz? Doody Gorman, Gregg Goslin, Timothy 0. Schneider,
Peter N. Silvestri, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R. Tobolski, County Commissioners.

EUPOSED ORDINANCE

 

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COOK COUNTY OPEN GOVERNMENT PLAN

WHEREAS, Cook County is cOmmitted to creating an unprecedented level of openness in
County government; and

WHEREAS, it is the desire and intention of the Cook County Board of Commissioners to
have County officials work together with the public to ensure open and effective
government; and

WHEREAS, through the establishment of an Open Government Plan, Cook County will
institute a system of transparency, public participation, collaboration and accountability; and

WHEREAS, such public participation and involvement will engage more minds, which in
tum shall generate dynamic feedback and innovative ideas; and

WHEREAS, the online provision of public data in an accessible format would be
instrumental in helping to encourage cooperation and technological advancement; and

WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of Cook County to pursue efficiency through the Open
Government Plan so as to create economic opportunities, increase transparency, use new
technologies to the County?s advantage, and eliminate wasteful redundancy; and

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE NOTICE
APRIL 26, 2011
PAGE 5

WHEREAS, within 90 days, the County shall issue, through separate guidance or as part
of, or in collaboration with, any planned comprehensive management guidance, a
framework for how the County can use challenges, prizes, and other incentive?backed
strategies to ?nd innovative or cost-effective solutions to utilizing or improving open
government; and

WHEREAS, these objectives all work towards the overarching goal of ensuring that
taxpayer dollars are spent ef?ciently and Cook County government fosters public trust.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, that Chapter 2, Article 1, Sec. 2-5 of the Cook County Code is hereby
enacted as follows:

Sec. 2-5. Open Government Plan

Purpose. In order to increase transparency, accountability, and informed public
participation, and to create economic development opportunities, Cook County (?County?)
departments and agencies, including the of?ces of the separately elected County of?cials
(?County Of?cials? or ?County Agency?) shall expand access to information, by making
certain information available online in a machine-readable, open format, that can be
retrieved, downloaded, indexed, sorted, searched, and reused by commonly used Web
search applications and commonly used open format software that facilitate access to, and
the reuse of, such information.

Website. In not less than 90 days, the Cook County shall establish a
common website that shall serve as the source for countywide and departmental activities
related to this Open Cook County Initiative (the Website). County Of?cials shall use their
best efforts to publish information to the Website, including, but not limited to: revenue,
spending and procurement information; crime and health statistics; contracts with private
?rms; policies or procedures; and other data or information commonly requested pursuant to
the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) in a format consistent with the standards set forth
herein.

Schedule. Inasmuch as timely and consistent publication of information is an essential
component of open government, the County shall develop schedules for making information
available to the public and indicating when such information is updated.

With respect to County information and data, the presumption shall be in favor of openness,
to the extent permitted by law and subject to valid privacy, con?dentiality, security, or other
restrictions and exemptions afforded under FOIA or other applicable federal, state of local
laws. Where practicable, County Of?cials shall publish all data that is not subject to valid
exemptions provided under FOIA as well as privacy, security, or privilege limitations or
that is not otherwise made available by the County pursuant to other initiatives.

Within 120 days, each County Agency shall create a catalog of its public information. The
catalog shall be accessible through this Open Cook County Initiative Website.

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE NOTICE

APRIL 26, 201 1
PAGE6
The catalog shall indicate:
(1) If the information is publicly-accessible; and
(2) The date of when the information was made publicly-accessible; and
(3) The date the information was last updated; and
(4) If the information is from a primary source or has been aggregated or modified; and

(5) If the information is restricted by any license or privacy restrictions.

Within 120 days, each County Agency shall identify and publish to the Website, in an open
format, the data listed in its catalog of its public information that is readily available and
that is available online, which shall in any event, consist of at least three high-value data
sets or other types of previously non?publicly accessible information.

The Website shall additionally include a mechanism that shall allow for the public to
provide feedback to the COunty on, and assess the quality of, published information. This
mechanism shall additionally allow for recommendations from the public to the County of
other information to consider prioritizing for publication.

Each County Agency shall engage in its best efforts to respond to public feedback received
via the Website on a regular, timely basis. Responses to such public feedback may include
descriptions of actions taken, or reasons for not taking action, based on such public
feedback received.

Each County Agency shall publish every FOIA request in an open format on the Website,
unless a request is subject to valid privacy, security, or privilege limitations. If a request is
subject to limitation, there shall be a redacted version of the request released that discloses
the nature of the request, but not the speci?cs of the request. Each FOIA request shall be
listed in conjunction with the status of the request and whether such request has been
fulfilled.

Where deemed appropriate, the County may assert or establish any licensure or use
restrictions for information provided on the Website.

Within 120 days, each County Agency shall develop and publish an Open Government Plan
(?Plan?) that shall describe how each department will enhance and develop transparency,
public participation, and collaboration. The Open Government Plan shall describe steps the
County Agency will take to conduct its work more openly and to publish its information
online. The Plan shall describe how the County Agency is currently meeting its legal
information dissemination obligations under FOIA and how the County Agency plans to
create more access to information and opportunities for public participation.

The Open Government Plan. shall describe steps the County shall take to enhance and
expand its practices to further cooperation among County Agencies, other governmental
agencies, the public, and non-profit and private entities in fulfilling the goals and objectives
of the County. The Plan shall include speci?c details aboUt:

TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE NOTICE

APRIL 26, 2011
PAGE 7
(1) Proposed changes to internal management and administrative policies to improve
collaboration; and
(2) Proposals to use technology platforms to improve collaboration among employees
and the public; and
(3) Descriptions of and links to appropriate websites where the public can learn about
existing collaboration efforts; and
(4) Innovative methods, such as prizes and competitions, to obtain ideas from, and to

increase collaboration with, the public, as well as those in the private sector, non-profit, and
academic communities.

Within 45 days, the President shall establish a working group that focuses on transparency,
accountability, public participation, and collaboration within County government. This
group, with senior level representation from other County Agencies, shall serve several
critical functions, including:

(1) Transparency Forum. The working group shall provide a forum to share best
practices on innovative ideas to promote transparency. This shall include system and
process solutions for information collection, aggregation, validation, and dissemination; and

(2) Participation and Collaboration Forum. The working group shall provide a forum
to share best practices on innovative ideas to promote participation and collaboration,
including how to experiment with new technologies, take advantage of the expertise and
insight of people both inside and outside of County government, and form high?impact
collaborations with researchers, the private sector, and the public; and

(3) Public Input Forum. The working group shall provide a forum for developing
resolutions to issues in accordance with See. 2?5(h) herein.

Within 120 days, the Chief Information Of?cer shall review existing County policies to
identify impediments to open government and to the use of new technologies and, where

necessary, issue clarifying guidance and/or propose revisions to such policies, to promote
greater openness in government.

Any clarifying guidance and/or proposed policies related to this Open Government
Directive shall be available through the County?s Open Government Website.

Effective Date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

*Referred to the Committee on Technology on April 20, 2011.

73.214.

[$7]th B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

Chairman: Fritchey
Vice-Chairman: Gorman
Members: Butler, Daley, Garcia, Goslin, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele

