The Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation & Policy Advisory Council
January 20, 2015
Call to Order. Council chair Wendy Paulson called the meeting to order at 3 pm. The following
council members and others attended:
Advisory Council Members
Wendy Paulson, chair
Commissioner Robert Steele
Dr. Sylvia Jenkins
Falona Joy
Laurel Ross
Linda Mastandrea
Mark Templeton
Michael De Santiago
Peter Ellis
Robert Castaneda
Terry Guen

Forest Preserve Staff
Amanda Grant
Anthony Tindall
Arnold Randall
Cathy Geraghty
Cynthia Moreno
Daniel Betts
Dennis White
Eileen Figel
Erik Varela
John McCabe
Lisa Lee
Lydia Uhlir
Mary Pat Cross
Stephen Hughes

Partners
Benjamin Cox (FOTFP)
Daniel Saurez (Volunteer)
Emily Harris (Harris Strategies)
Ginny Hotaling (CBG)
Gregory Mueller (CBG)
Lenore Beyer-Clow
(Openlands)
Rebecca Sanders (Audubon)
Richard Gamble (CZS)
Shelley Davis (FP Foundation)

Public Comments. There were no comments from the public.
Overview of the Forest Preserves of Cook County and the Next Century Conservation Plan
(NCCP). General Superintendent Arnold Randall presented an overview of the district and the
NCCP.
Testimonial. Daniel Suarez of Audubon Chicago and a long-time volunteer with the forest
preserves discussed how and why he got involved as a volunteer. He stated, “Growing up,
nature was not on my radar. Nature seemed to be an “other” place—not something accessible
to me.” As a teenager, Suarez volunteered for a workday along the North Branch and has been
deeply committed to restoration efforts ever since.
Implementation Strategy and Council Responsibilities. Deputy Superintendent Eileen Figel
provided an overview of the process and strategy which is being used to implement the plan
and the role of the council in guiding these efforts.
Challenges and Opportunities. Wendy Paulson asked members of the council to share what
they see as challenges and opportunities related to the plan. These include:

1

 CHALLENGES
Don’t get stuck on dollars needed; we have lots
of other resources (people, partners, etc.)
We need to look at the forest preserves as a
whole; don’t allow one site to compete against
another.
What is the message and who do we need to get
it to? How will we use technology to connect to
urbanites and get them out here?
What will kids get excited about? Land
restoration is a primary goal, but will these kids
respond to that? How do we get to underrepresented communities?
Need to retain sense of urgency.

Is the County Board behind this? Commissioner
Steele stated that many of them are users of the
Forest Preserves and indicated he will be an
advocate within the board AND will be a
national advocate to get more resources here.
Ginny Hotaling suggested a regular update at
the Cook County Board meeting.
Cynthia explained to the People Committee how
we got here; that might be helpful to council.

OPPORTUNITIES
Thousands of volunteers.
Council members have lots of connections;
we can pull in more partners.
We must get the house in order and protect
the preserves, but also think about how we
reach back and bring the model of
conservation into the city.
How will you track the improved accessibility
for people with disabilities?

The council can help with the “call to action.”
What are we asking partners to do? What
are we asking the public to do? We have
very specific ideas under each of the four
pillars which we can measure against.
Setting the bar high is important; if you don’t
set it high, you will never get there. What
makes it realistic is that we have 25 years to
get it done and people want to be part of the
winning team that gets it done.

The plan is grand; we must look for
synergies. Think about who is taking on
responsibility for getting this done.

Council Operations & Resources. Cathy Geraghty presented the operating guidelines for the
council and provided an overview of the resources included in their binder.
Adjournment. The meeting was adjourned at 5 p.m.

2

 