 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, February 18, 2014 9:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings
of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time speci?ed in the meeting
agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a speci?c item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

13REAL0002

ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent, requesting authorization for the District to grant License
Number 1729 to the Village of Morton Grove (Village) for construction, operation and maintenance of a 12-inch
water main and a 20-inch water main through Miami Woods from Caldwell Avenue at Main Street to the St. Paul
Woods parking area. The area requested for the License is 0.976 acres. The Village indicates that 33 trees will be
removed and another 39 trees may be impacted by construction.

Reason: The Village operates and maintains existing 12-inch and 20-inch water mains at this location under
License 605 granted by the District in 1965. The existing water mains are deteriorated and need frequent repair.
Replacement of the water mains will reduce leakage onto District property and minimize future disruptions for
repair.

Legislative History: 7/16/13 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the
Real Estate Committee,

14-0024

EASEMENT REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the ?District?) to grant
permanent and temporary easements to the Illinois Department of Transportation at Algonquin Woods,
along the east side of Des Plaines River Road from Touhy Avenue to Oakton Avenue for 0031 acre or 1,350 square
feet of permanent easement and 0.056 acre or 2,439 square feet of temporary easement.

Reason: The permanent easement is for construction and maintenance of drainage structures. The temporary
easement is for re?grading and reconstruction of driveway entrances. IDOT states that the existing road is severely
deteriorated and the project will improve safety and capacity. In addition, raising the road pro?le will reduce
?ooding on the road and adjacent properties.

The area for the permanent easement is 0.056 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are expected to be removed for this
project.

Easement Fee: $5,900.00

Tree Mitigation Fee: None

Concurrence(s): The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Officer have approved this item.
District(s): 17

Legislative History: 1/4/14 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the Real
Estate Committee:

14-0032

PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (?The District?), as Licensor
to grant a License the Village of Elmwood Park (?the Village?), Licensee, to locate, operate and maintain a storm
sewer outfall structure to the Des Plaines River, a ?oodwall along Thatcher Avenue, and a ?oodgate at the entrance
to Evans Field as part of a Flood Mitigation Project to reduce ?ooding of Thatcher Avenue and adjacent
neighborhoods. The project will separate the storm water from an existing combined sewer and eliminate the
potential for combined sewage to enter District property. The ?oodwall will allow Thatcher Avenue to remain open
during ?ood events. In addition, the ?oodgate will automatically close the entrance to Evans Field during ?ood
events. The Village states that the ?ood stage and duration will not increase due to the ?oodwall.

The proposed license also is contingent upon the Village?s agreement to acquire (at their appraised value) two small
parcels owned by the District that already have been deemed surplus property by the District, thereby relieving the
District of the responsibility and expense for maintaining the same.

Term: Continuous

License Fee: $11,477.27
Page 2 of 3

License Application Fee: $500.00

Yelar Fee: $3,300.00 Total one-time upfront fee of $15,277.27 for the term of the License (See. 5-2A-4 and
5-2B-4)

Tree Mitigation Fee: $13,281.09

The area of the License is: 0.174 acre

Concurrences: The Chief Attorney and Chief Financial Of?cer have approved this item.Grantee has met the
insurance requirements under the License Agreement.

District(s): 9

Legislative History: 1/ 14/14 Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners referred to the

Real Estate Committee,
?rm we;

45?: retary

 

Chairman: Murphy
Vice Chairman: Gorman
Members:Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

