MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING - RIVERBOAT
OPEN SESSION
December 14, 2016
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
Chicago, ILLINOIS
On Wednesday, December 14, 2016 a Regular Meeting - Riverboat of the Illinois Gaming Board
(“Board”) was held on the 5th floor at 160 N. LaSalle at the Michael J. Bilandic Building,
Chicago, Illinois at 9:12 A.M. Present were the following: Chairman Don Tracy, Members
Hector Alejandre, Member Dee Robinson, Member Steve Dolins and Member Thomas Dunn.
APPROVAL OF OPEN SESSION MINUTES:
Member Dunn moved that the Board approve the open session minutes from its Regular Meeting
of November 3, 2016. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Penn National Gaming, Inc. – Request to Refinance Current Credit Facility
Member Dolins moved that the Board approve the refinancing transaction request
submitted by Penn National Gaming, Inc. to allow Alton Casino, LLC; HC Aurora,
LLC; and HC Joliet, LLC to be attached as subsidiary guarantors of a credit facility
refinancing, if issued, of up to $1.5 billion, subject to final approval by the
Administrator. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.


Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC – d/b/a Rivers Casino –
Refinancing

Member Dolins moved pursuant to Section 230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules to
approve the refinancing of Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC debt through a new
senior credit facility of Midwest Gaming Borrower, LLC, consisting of a $525 million
term loan and a $90 million revolving credit facility, consistent with the transaction
documents provided to the Board.
Member Dolins moved that pursuant to Section 235(b) of the Board’s Adopted Rules to
approve the pledge of certain collateral pursuant to the Security Documents to be entered
into by Midwest Gaming Borrower, LLC as borrower and guarantor, by Midwest Gaming
Mezzanine, L.P. as pledgor, and by Midwest Gaming & Entertainment, LLC, Midwest
Gaming Finance Corp. and Devon Parcel, LLC as guarantors; including the Pledge and
Security Agreement, Equity Pledge Agreement, Subsidiary Guaranties and Mortgage,
consistent with the transaction documents provided to the Board.
Member Dolins moved to approve Midwest Gaming Borrower, LLC’s use of one or more
swap agreements for all or a portion of the contemplated debt.

 Member Dolins further moved to delegate to the Administrator final approval of the
financing documents as long as the terms and conditions therein do not materially
change. Member Dunn seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.


Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC – d/b/a Rivers Casino – Jillian N.
Wilcox, Vice President of Finance – Level 1 License

Member Robinson moved that the Board approve Jillian N. Wilcox as a Level One
Occupational Licensee in her position as Vice President of Finance for Midwest Gaming
and Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino. Member Alejandre seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.


Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC – d/b/a Rivers Casino – Joshua J.
San Salvador, Assistant General Manager – Level 1 License

Member Robinson moved that the Board find Joshua J. San Salvador suitable as a
Level One Occupational Licensee in his position as Assistant General Manager for
Midwest Gaming and Entertainment, LLC d/b/a Rivers Casino. Member Alejandre
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
SUPPLIER LICENSEE ITEMS
Final Consideration
(Board Action / Vote Required)
 Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. – Supplier License Renewal
Member Alejandre moved that the Board approve the renewal of the supplier license of
Gaming Partners International USA, Inc. for a period of four (4) years, retroactive to
July 2016, expiring in July, 2020, and authorize the Administrator to issue a warning to
the company regarding three recent issues with playing cards. Member Dunn seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSEE ITEMS
Approvals and Denials – Level 2 and Level 3 Licenses
Member Alejandre moved to find suitable and approve 57 Level 2 occupational licenses,
and 127 Level 3 occupational licenses. Member Robinson seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Member Dolins moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Patriot
Gaming & Electronics, Inc. fining the licensee $5,000.00 for failing to timely file its
supplier license annual update, said action to take effect 21 days from the date of service
of the Complaint, unless an Answer to the Complaint is properly filed within that time

2

 frame. Member Dunn seconded the motion.
unanimously by roll call vote.

The Board approved the motion

Member Robinson moved that the Board rescind disciplinary complaint DC-16-33 issued
against The United States Playing Card Company at the October 2016 meeting, and
authorize the Administrator to issue a warning to the company regarding the recent
playing cards issue. Member Alejandre seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Dunn moved to delegate to the Administrator the authority to execute a
settlement agreement with Casino Queen, Inc., related to DC-16-37 issued at the
November 2016 meeting. Member Dolins seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
At 9:27 A.M. Member Dunn motioned to adjourn and Member Robinson seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

3

 