STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on December 9, 2008
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; Albert
Washington, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F.
Brosnan acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD SEPTEMBER 9, 2008

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the September 9, 2008 meeting. Member Hade
moved to approve the minutes. Member Piper seconded. The Board passed the motion—three in favor, none
against—Member Washington abstained.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from October 1 through November 30, 2008. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-RC-08-081
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 51/City of Peru

Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its background. Acting General Counsel Brosnan
reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Wells' Recommended
Decision and Order (RDO), and recommend that the Board find the petitioned-for unit appropriate and direct
a representation election therein. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
2.
Case No. S-RC-08-091
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/City of Peru
Chairman Gallagher called the case and summarized its procedural background. Acting General Counsel
Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and recommended that the
Board find the petitioned-for unit appropriate and direct the certification of Petitioner as the exclusive
representative of the petitioned-for employees. After discussion, Member Hade moved to accept the acting
general counsel's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it
unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-CA-06-128
Service Employees International Union, Local 73/Sarah D. Culbertson Hospital
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Clifford's recommendation. After a discussion of

 the merits, Member Piper moved to accept the ALJ's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
4.
Case No. S-CA-06-250
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of Illinois,
Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by the
exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Waechter's recommendation, but decline to review
on its own motion his disposition of the alleged 10(a)(2) violation. After discussion, Member Piper moved
to accept the ALJ's recommendation, without reviewing the 10(a)(2) disposition. Member Washington
seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-RC-06-195
Elgin Association of Firefighters, Local 439, International Ass'n of Firefighters/City of Elgin
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-CA-07-261
International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150/City of West Chicago
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Clifford's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
VI.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of January, 2009.

2

 