 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Finance Subcommittee on Workers' Compensation

Tuesday, December 11, 2018 1:00 PM Cook County Building, Board Room 569,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present Chairman S. Morrison, Vice Chairman Britton, Commissioners Degnen, Johnson, and K.
Morrison (5)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Morrison asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance With Cook County Code.

No Public Speakers

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Johnson, moved that the Workers?

Compensation Subcommittee convene in Open Session to consider matters of pending Workers?
Compensation. The motion carried.

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Johnson, moved Approval of the cases over
$25,000.00. The motion carried.

19-0642
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 1 1/13/2018

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Degnen, to approve
19-0642. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman S. Morrison, Vice Chairman Britton, Commissioners Degnen, Johnson, and K.
Morrison (5)

1. SETTLEMENTS
County Government

LOPEZ RUBIN

16 WC 31722 Petitioner injured his head, back, right knee, and left hand
and elbow, while attempting to secure a combative detainee
in the ward at Cermak.

 

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner
Johnson moved Approval. The motion carried.

MILLER. ELAINE
13 WC 25358 Petitioner was leaving a home visit when she injured her
right knee and back after she slipped on ice and fell.

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner
Johnson moved Approval. The motion carried.

PITAK, STEVE

09 WC 36785 Petitioner developed the condition of rhabdomyolysis and
lumbar radiculopathy from doing strenuous physical
exercise with little water over three days at the academy.

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner
Johnson moved Approval. The motion carried.

SALVINO, GREGORY
14 WC 31392 Petitioner injured his left shoulder, while attempting to lift
voting machines.

Vice-Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner
Johnson moved Approval. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Britton, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman S. Morrison, Vice Chairman Britton, Commissioners Degnen, Johnson, and K.
Morrison (5)

Page 2 of3

Respectfully submitted,

Secre ary

 

 

 

complete record of this meeting is available at 

 

Page 3 of3

