STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on August 11, 2009
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Michael Hade, Member of the Board;
Rex Piper, Member of the Board (participated by telephone-conference); Albert Washington, Member of
the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director; and staff members. John F. Brosnan and Sylvia Rios
acted as counsel to the Board at this meeting.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD JULY 14, 2009

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the July 14, 2009 meeting. Member Coli
moved to approve the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion
unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to distribute the State Panel administrative actions
report for the period of time from July 1 through July 31, 2009. He distributed the report to the Board and
the Board examined it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-CA-07-085
International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 95/Village of Oak Park

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Petitioner's request for oral argument was pending. After
a short discussion, Member Hade moved to grant the request for oral argument. Member Coli seconded
the motion. The Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote, setting the argument for the Board's
September 15 meeting.
2.
Case No. S-CA-07-231
International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 2392/Village of Villa Park
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by
the exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) Clifford's Recommended Decision and Order (RDO),
and recommended that the Board accept the ALJ's recommendation. After discussion, Member Coli
moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
3.
Case No. S-RC-08-024
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31/State of
Illinois, Department of Central Management Services
Chairman Gallagher called the case. Acting General Counsel Brosnan reviewed the issues presented by
the exceptions and recommended that the Board accept ALJ Clifford's recommendation. After a
discussion of the merits, Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation.
Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.

 4.
Case No. S-CA-05-106
Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee/City of Bloomington
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Rios' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
5.
Case No. S-CA-07-119
Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter No. 483/Village of Hawthorn Woods
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Wells' RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
6.
Case No. S-CA-09-001
Markham Professional Fire Fighters Association, International Association of Fire Fighters,
Local 3209/City of Markham
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to ALJ Strizak's RDO, and
asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
7.
Case No. S-CA-08-203
Wood Dale Professional Fire Fighters Association, International Association of Fire
Fighters, Local 3594/Wood Dale Fire Protection District
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that Executive Director Brosnan issued a partial dismissal on
July 8, 2009, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Rios reviewed the issues presented by the
appeal, and recommended that the Board uphold the executive director's order. After discussion, Member
Hade moved to uphold the executive director's order. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the
Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher observed that there was nothing to report with regard to either legislative or fiscal
matters. After a brief discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli
made a motion to go into executive session to discuss personnel matters. Member Washington seconded
the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the
discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave executive session. Member Washington seconded the
motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli then made a motion to
return to open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously,
by a voice vote.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Coli made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
Chicago, Illinois, this 15th day of September, 2009.

2

 