MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
MAY 19, 1998
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on May 19, 1998 in the
auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120.
The following Board Members were present: J. Thomas Johnson, Chairman; and
Members William B. Browder, Gayl S. Pyatt, Terry A. Scrogum and Robert F. Vickrey.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Michael A. Belletire, Deputy Administrators
Joseph Haughey, Allan McDonald, and Thomas Swoik, Chief Counsel Mareile’ Cusack,
other members of the staff, the media, the general public and interested parties.
Chairman Johnson called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m. Member Browder moved that
the Board retire to Closed Session pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (4), (11),
(14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act, to discuss the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Issues Concerning Applicants and Licensees
Recommendations of Administrative Law Judges
Investigatory Matters
Personnel Matters
Closed Session Minutes

Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board adopted the motion by unanimous
consent.
The Board convened in Open Session at 12:00 p.m.
Board Minutes
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve the minutes from the open and closed
sessions of the April 22, 1998 regular meeting and the open and closed sessions of the
May 12, 1998 special meeting. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report
The Chairman noted one change to the agenda. Under the Supplier Licensee section of
the agenda the Circus Circus item should be moved to items for final action under the
Owner Licensee section. The Chairman reported that the Governor has reappointed
members Vickrey and Johnson to the Board to three year terms expiring July 1, 2001.
The Governor also designated Mr. Johnson as Chairman of the Board.
The Chairman reported that the National Gambling Impact Study Commission
(“NGISC”) will hold its two day meeting in Chicago May 20 and May 21. Administrator
Belletire will be one of the panelists making a presentation on the regulation and regional
competition of riverboat casinos.
Administrator’s Report
The Administrator reported that Susan Weber and Marianne Floriano were instrumental
in assisting the NGISC in its arrangements and preparation for its two day meeting.
Administrator Belletire summarized the following monthly reports: Adjusted Gross
Receipts; Underage Patrons; Cruise Disruptions/Cancellations; Credit Issuance; and
Internal Control System changes.
The Administrator also reported that:
• Minimum Internal Control System changes have been issued to owner
licensees, requiring licensees to make ICS changes related to credit, check
cashing and problem gambling matters.
• Donna More, who represents several Illinois licensees, has been appointed to
the Board of Directors of Circus Circus Enterprises.
• Adrienne Levatino, Executive Director of the Illinois Casino Gaming
Association (“ICGA”), has resigned from this position. The Administrator
wished her well in her future endeavors.
• Players International has addressed staff concerns regarding how the licensee
handles capital investments. Players International will no longer be drawing
distributions while simultaneously “lending” funds for capital improvements to
SIRCC.
Joe Haughey gave a report updating last month’s discussion of vessel safety.
Member Scrogum asked if the Coast Guard will be making a formal recommendation
regarding moored riverboat casinos. Mr. Haughey stated that he would request a written
report from the Coast Guard.

2

 Member Vickrey asked Mr. Haughey how long it takes a barge or a tow of multiple
barges to stop. Mr. Haughey stated that it takes approximately 1 mile in distance to stop.
Chairman Johnson thanked Ms. Levatino for her efforts with the ICGA.
Owner Licensee Items
EMPRESS RIVER CASINO (“Empress”) - John Costello, representing Empress,
requested initial consideration of the second tier of its proposed capital restructuring -- a
Bank Credit Facility. Mr. Costello stated that with $150 million in Subordinated Notes,
the $100 million Bank Facility would cover the approximately $25 million additional up
front borrowing requirements, while providing both pre-payment flexibility and additional
borrowing capacity. The Bank Facility interest costs will be based upon a pricing matrix
tied to the London International Bank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) and a prime rate figure.
The two-tiered capital structure approach will allow Empress to achieve its goal of
matching its capital structure with its new holding company (LMC Leasing, Ltd.)
structure.
Chairman Johnson asked if Mr. Costello has informed the staff of the expected utilization
of the $75 million. Mr. Costello stated that the $75 million is additional borrowing
capacity with no current plans for its use. Chairman Johnson asked if Empress will use
the money to pay off its existing debt. Mr. Costello stated that the new notes, in
conjunction with the credit facility and cash on hand will be used to retire all existing
indebtedness, including the $150 million of 10 3/4 notes along with $52 million in
outstanding debt at Hammond.
CASINO ROCK ISLAND (“CRI”) - Ron Wicks, representing CRI, introduced John
Phillips, City Manager of Rock Island, to address the Board’s concerns over parking at
the CRI.
Mr. Phillips stated that the City of Rock Island works very closely with the CRI. CRI
helps the City with marketing and underwriting costs of special events held in downtown
Rock Island known as the “District”. The City feels that the largest problem that CRI
faces is not parking but inconvenient boarding restrictions for customers. Mr. Phillips
stated that the City believes there is sufficient parking for CRI’s customers. He further
stated that if the CRI were to be able to compete under similar rules as Iowa gaming
operators the City would work with CRI to develop more parking.
Dan Carmody, Executive Director of Renaissance Rock Island, gave an overview of past
efforts to assist CRI during the “shakeout” of the Quad-cities gaming industry. He
observed that following setbacks in 1996, the District has resumed growing. Mr.
Carmody reported that Renaissance Rock Island is looking at six different projects in the
food and beverage and hotel sectors. Investors are showing confidence in the District.
3

 Mr. Carmody addressed the parking issue. He referenced a map of the area, identifying
the location of current and potential future parking sites.
Member Vickrey asked what the immediate plans are to alleviate parking problems or to
increase the number of parking spaces close to the casino. Mr. Wicks stated that CRI has
adequate parking for its current customer count. He stated that there are 330 parking
spaces directly across the street from the casino, and there are 60 spaces around the
Armory Building, just East of the Casino, that CRI uses for valet parking.
Member Vickrey asked what the average attendance is on a cruise. Mr. Wicks stated that
CRI is averaging 200 - 250 patrons per cruise. On weekends CRI averages 550 - 600
patrons per cruise.
Member Vickrey asked if CRI has looked at the number of patrons per automobile. Mr.
Wicks stated that the range is from 1.9 - 2.3 patrons per car.
Member Vickrey asked what is going on across the river in Iowa. Mr. Wicks stated that
the Lady Luck in Bettendorf has a hotel and parking facility under construction. The
hotel site is six miles West of the CRI. The President casino is 500 yards directly across
the river from the CRI.
In response to Chairman Johnson, Mr. Wicks stated that CRI believes that any investment
today, without a change in legislation, could not produce any better financial results than
CRI is able to achieve in the market place right now. It is CRI’s belief that no one could
produce better results in the market place given the conditions and competitive
environment between Illinois and Iowa. Mr. Wicks stated that CRI is willing to meet the
competitive challenge but stressed they need to have a level playing field.
Mr. Johnson asked if the problem in the Quad-cities is dockside gaming alone or is it
dockside gaming and over capacity. Mr. Wicks stated that it is both. The Iowa
competitors have seen that CRI cannot compete, and they have capitalized on it. Mr.
Wicks stated that even if legislation passed it would still take them a long time to
recapture their fair share of the market place.
Chairman Johnson asked what the gaming admissions would be if there was an
equalization of the law. Mr. Wicks stated that CRI has calculated that it would have 1.2 1.4 million patrons per year. Currently the level is at 600,000 patrons per year.
Chairman Johnson asked how many gaming positions CRI currently has. Mr. Wicks
stated that CRI currently has 480 gaming positions. If there is a legislative change CRI

4

 expects to use the 1200 gaming positions allowed by the Act. Administrator Belletire
corrected Mr. Wicks and stated that CRI has 417 gaming positions in use at this time.
Member Vickrey asked the City of Rock Island representatives if the CRI is doing
everything reasonable to make its operation viable given the competitive environment.
Mr. Phillips stated that he believes they are. Member Vickrey asked what is the future for
CRI if the law never changes. Mr. Phillips stated that is a business decision of the CRI.
The City has done everything it can to help the licensee stay in operation and the entire
community is behind them. Member Vickrey asked Mr. Wicks how long CRI can stay in
business without a law change. Mr. Wicks stated that they have seen a stabilization in
revenues, and CRI is prepared to stick it out until there is a legislative change.
Member Vickrey stated that he would like to see the CRI do everything possible to make
it more convenient for people to come to the CRI. He further encouraged the City to
work with the CRI and bring some additional parking closer to the riverboat, possibly
around the Armory Building.
Member Vickrey asked what is the longest customers have to wait to get on the riverboat.
Mr. Wicks replied 1 1/2 hours. Member Vickrey further asked if marketing is doing
anything to hold the customers at the pavilion. Mr. Wicks stated that patrons are offered
free meals and non-alcoholic beverages. CRI also promotes the District to its patrons to
keep them in the area.
Mr. Wicks requested renewal of CRI’s owner’s license.
Member Vickrey moved that the Board renew the owner’s license of Rock Island
Boatworks, Inc. (“RIBI”) for a period of one year commencing May, 1998. In
renewing the license the Board orders the following:
1. RIBI shall make no cash or non-cash distributions to its shareholders without
prior Board approval.
2. RIBI shall make no loans nor shall it invest in other entities without the prior
approval of the Administrator.
3. RIBI is to provide by June 30, 1998 revised financial projections for the years
1998, 1999 and 2000. The revised projections shall be based upon recent
operating trends and more supportable assumptions. These projections shall
also reflect the capital investments to be implemented as a result of the capital
plan proposed by the licensee in November 1997, or a modified version of
such plan. The capital plan shall be modified so as to not be contingent upon
statutory changes in the Riverboat Gambling Act.
5

 4. RIBI shall work with staff and provide written evidence of sufficient working
cash available to meet ongoing operating needs as well as adequate cash on
hand for daily casino operations.
Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA, INC. (“HCA”) and SOUTHERN ILLINOIS
RIVERBOAT CASINO CRUISES, INC. (“SIRCC”) - Pat Medchill, representing HCA,
and Patrick Madamba, representing SIRCC, requested approval of their preventive
maintenance requests.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve Hollywood Casino Aurora’s
(“HCA”) request for a waiver of Board rule 3000.510 to allow HCA to conduct
gaming and remain dockside while HCA is conducting an underwater hull
inspection on the City of Lights I and the City of Lights II consecutively. Member
Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Scrogum moved that the Board approve SIRCC’s request for a waiver of
Board Rule 3000.510 to allow SIRCC to conduct gaming while remaining dockside
while preventive maintenance is being performed on the Player’s II port main
engine. Member Vickrey seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
CIRCUS CIRCUS - Donna More, representing Circus Circus, requested approval of
Yvette Landau as a Key Person.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve Yvette E. Landau as a Key Person of
Elgin Riverboat Resorts, Inc. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licenses
SIGMA GAME, INC.
Member Pyatt moved that the Board approve James P. Jackson as a Key Person of
Sigma Game, Inc. Member Browder seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Occupational Licenses
Member Browder moved that the Board approve 94 applications for an Occupational
License, Level 2, and 237 applications for an Occupational License, Level 3, and
6

 deny 1 application for an Occupational License, Level 3. Member Vickrey seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearings/ALJ Reports
Having reviewed the staff’s report Member Scrogum moved that the Board reconsider
the initial denials of Russell Hauser and Eva Salinas and issue both individuals an
occupational license. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
Complaints & Disciplinary Actions
Member Pyatt moved that the Board issue a disciplinary complaint against Eric
Connell and revoke his license. Member Scrogum seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Board Policy Items
PUBLIC COMMENTARY - Anita Bedell, Executive Director of Illinois Church Action
on Alcohol Problems, thanked the Board for its Patron Survey report. Ms. Bedell
expressed concern for owner licensee marketing programs targeting senior citizens and
women. She cited several examples of promotions used by owner licensees and stated
she feels the promotions target senior citizens, women with children and compulsive
gamblers. She expressed concern over Empress’ essay contest held at schools. She feels
it advertises one more addictive behavior to children.
Ms. Bedell asked the Board several questions. She wanted to know if the Board reviews
the licensee’s promotions; if the Board could compile a list of Slot Club Members; and, if
the Board could provide monthly figures of callers to the Compulsive Gambling Hot Line
for 1996 - 1998 by area code.
Chairman Johnson asked Ms. Bedell to provide copies of promotional items she referred
to in her presentation. Member Pyatt asked Ms. Bedell to provide the Board with a
written request for information.
WAGERING TAX RULE - Administrator Belletire reported that JCAR issued no
objection to the Board’s proposed rule 3000.1071 implementing the graduated wagering
tax law passed by the General Assembly and signed by the Governor in December 1997.
Member Browder moved that the Board approve the final publishing and adoption of
Board rule 3000.1071. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by voice vote.
BLACKJACK WIN CARDS - Cory Aronovitz, representing Gaming International, Inc.,
requested approval of Blackjack Win Cards. Mr. Aronovitz described the Win Card and
7

 the intended use of the card. He stated that an owner licensee would purchase the card
directly from Gaming International and distribute the card to its patrons through a
marketing program.
Chairman Johnson asked if the distribution of Win Cards could be construed as the
licensee instructing a patron on how to place a bet. Mr. Aronovitz replied no.
Chairman Johnson asked if Gaming International would be a supplier. Mr. Aronovitz
stated that the product is not gaming related and that it would be used only as a marketing
device. Administrator Belletire stated that the Board has never limited its authority to
construe what constitutes a gaming device.
Mr. Aronovitz passed out a photo copy of a sheet of paper outlining basic strategies for
Blackjack. He stated that a patron could bring a photocopy of strategies into a casino
because it, like the Win Card, is not a gaming device. He stated that the Win Card
requires Board approval because it has two working parts and therefore could be
construed as a device.
Chairman Johnson asked for identification of the jurisdictions in which the Win Card is
currently distributed. Mr. Aronovitz stated Nevada, New Jersey, Mississippi, Louisiana,
Iowa, Indiana, and all the Native American gaming jurisdictions. He noted that Win
Cards are prohibited in Missouri because the Commission promulgated a regulation that
stated no device is authorized for use in the State.
Chairman Johnson asked what if the Win Card was on a hand held mechanical electronic
document. Mr. Aronovitz stated that he feels the legislature intended to bar such devices.
Mr. Aronovitz stated that Gaming Laboratories, Inc. conducted an analysis of the Win
Card for Missouri and found it is a device only because it has two working parts. It is a
novice strategy that does not have the ability to affect the outcome of the game.
Chairman Johnson declared that the issue of Win Cards will be considered as an item for
Initial Consideration. He asked Mr. Aronovitz to supply the Board and staff with further
information addressing why he believes the Win Card is not a gaming device and any set
precedent.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Member Scrogum moved that
the Board stand adjourned. Member Pyatt seconded the motion. The Board approved
the motion unanimously by voice vote and adjourned at 1:40 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

8

 Susan 0. Weber
Secretary of the Board

