BOARD OF ETHICS

OPEN SESSION MINUTES
MAY 14, 2019, 12:05 P.M.
740 North Sedgwick, Suite 500

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT
William F. Conlon, Chair
Zaid Abdul-Aleem
David L. Daskal
Dr. Daisy S. Lezama
Hon. Barbara McDonald
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT
Nancy C. Andrade
Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson

I.

STAFF PRESENT
Steven I. Berlin, Executive Director
Lisa S. Eilers, Deputy Director
Richard Superfine, Legal Counsel
Ana Collazo, Attorney/Investigator
Edward Primer, Program Director
Paully Casillas, Staff Administrator
GUESTS ATTENDING
Benjamin Angel, Represent Us
Justin Bryant, Represent Us
Ben Goldsmith, Citizen
Robbie McBeath, Represent Us (Chicago Chapter)
Daniel Wolk, Represent Us

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Board VOTED 5-0 (Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to approve the open
session minutes of the Board’s meeting of April 26, 2019.

II.

CHAIR’S REPORT
The Board and staff have been working for months on a package of recommended ethics reforms, which we
will make public as soon as possible after the Memorial Day weekend. They will be addressed to Mayor
Lightfoot and all 50 City Council members. On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present these; they
represent decades of wisdom and experience, and include major changes to the fines for ethics violations
and conflicts of interests rules. And, I hope that the momentum and desire for change that the Mayor-elect
has heralded continues, and that the Board can participate fully in those efforts. The Board plays a unique
role in ethics reform. The Board’s enabling law gives it the power and duty to recommend legislative action
deemed appropriate to effect the policy of the City’s Governmental Ethics Ordinance.
In particular, one of the key changes is that the Board should have the ability to assess fines in amounts
much greater than $2,000. That ceiling has caused the Board to be unfairly and incorrectly mocked by
editorial cartoonists, and gives the impression that ethics violations are treated lightly.
Equally importantly, I wish to thank those members of the public, some of whom are present today, for
submitting thoughtful comments to our earlier drafts. They were invaluable.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 2

III.

MEMBERS’ REPORTS
None

IV.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
A.

Amendments to the Ordinance
Recent Ordinance amendments, effective May 29, do a number of things: (i) provide that if City
Council committee chairs recuse as required by the Ethics Ordinance from more than four (4)
distinct matters in a 12-month period, they must end the business relationship that gives rise to the
recusal, or step down from their Committee chairmanships (Rule 14 disclosures not required by law
do not count toward these four (4)); (ii) clarify long-standing Board-made law (see Case No.
00008.A, https://www.chicago.gov/dam/city/depts/ethics/general/AO_ConflictOfInterest/00008-AOredact.pdf) that a City Council member may not preside as Chair or Vice Chair over any parts of City
Council committee meetings from which he or she must recuse; (iii) require more detailed
disclosure about matters from which a City Council member is recusing, such as the nature of the
relationship giving rise to the recusal and when it originated; (iv) require continued amendment of
one’s filed Statement of Financial Interests to show new reportable interests within 30 days of such
occurrence; and (v) extend the definition of those “seeking to do business with the City” and thus
subject to the Ordinance’s $1,500 per calendar year/per candidate political contribution limit to
those who have had certain types of specified matters pending before the City Council during the
period six (6) months before the matter was introduced and after the matter was introduced.
We will publish the changes as they become effective.
As we will discuss soon in open session, the Board’s own proposed amendments are lengthy and
substantive, and we will vote on our draft, having solicited and received very fine comments from
the public.

B.

Transition to the Lightfoot Administration
I and two (2) staff members met on April 29 with members of the Mayor-Elect’s transition team,
who work for the Civic Consulting Alliance, to discuss ongoing projects and goals. On May 21, at the
first scheduled cabinet meeting for the incoming Lightfoot administration, I was asked to do a brief
ethics training – this is an important honor. I had given the incoming Mayor’s Chief of Staff designate
a copy of the Board’s then-current draft of suggested amendments on April16.

C.

Education
Classes and Other Presentations
Since the Board’s last regularly scheduled meeting, 20 employees and officials attended a class here
on May 9. There are 61 scheduled for May 21 and 30 and June 11.
All Board classes cover sexual harassment.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 3
On June 4, I will make a 30 minute presentation to the “Chi Hack Night,” which is a regular meeting of
local computer programmers and app builders.
On-line Training
For appointed officials
We completed a PowerPoint for all appointed officials, including members of this Board, and will
email it to all appointed officials, and have them complete it, with the Assistance of the Office of
Legislative Counsel and Government Affairs (which is responsible for coordinating the
appointments of all Mayoral appointees/appointed officials).
For lobbyists
The 2018-2019 lobbyist training program is being posted today. To date, 335 have completed it,
which is about 44.4% of the total. The deadline is before July 2.
For all employees and aldermen
We began drafting this training, but have delayed it, due to possible Ordinance amendments.

D.

Council on Governmental Ethics Laws (“COGEL”)
COGEL’s 2019 annual conference will be here in Chicago, at the Michigan Avenue Marriott in early
December of that year. We will work closely with the current and next Mayor’s Office, City Council,
and Budget Office to ensure a successful conference. We expect about 450 ethics, campaign
financing, lobbying, freedom of information, and election administration officials from across the U.S.
and Canada to attend, plus private practitioners and academics. We are serving on the conference’s
program committee, and will be reaching out to various elected and appointed officials, attorneys,
public figures, and media personnel to serve on panel discussions or otherwise contribute to the
Conference. We will co-host the Conference with our colleagues at the Chicago Board of Election
Commissioners, Illinois State Board of Elections, and Illinois State Executive Ethics Commission, and
possibly other local agencies involved in ethics or freedom of information administration.
As President-elect of COGEL, I also serve on the Program and Host committees, and continue to Chair
the Publications committee. The 2019 Conference is an opportunity to showcase our agency, our
mission, our ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, and election administration colleagues at the City,
County, and State levels. And I am hoping that our Board members will lend support to make the
41st Conference nonpareil.
On March 7 and 8, we had productive program meetings, and the program has largely been set. It
will include two Chicago-centric breakout sessions. We are excited about it, and have extended
invitations to several locally-based potential participants. On May 3 and 4, we had Steering
Committee meetings.

E.

Executive Editorship – Public Integrity/Guardian Issue
I am a member of the Executive Editorial Board of the journal Public Integrity, which is affiliated
with the American Society for Public Administration. It is published by Taylor & Francis six (6)
times a year. We are in the midst of a joint project between this journal and the COGEL Guardian to
bridge gaps between academics and practitioners. The first edition of the 2019 COGEL Guardian will
be published around May 31.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 4

F.

Sister Agency Ethics Officers
We will next meet on June 25 with our ethics counterparts at other local governmental agencies: the
Cook County Board of Ethics and the Ethics Officers from the Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of
Chicago, and Chicago Housing Authority.

G.

2019 Statements of Financial Interests
On March 1, we sent filing notices to 3,688 City employees and officials (via email and U.S. first class
mail) notices regarding their requirement to file their 2019 Statements of Financial Interests before
June 1. This includes individuals identified by each Ward or alderman who fall into the definition in
the Ordinance of “City Council employee” even though they are paid as independent contractors. As
of this writing, 2,877 have filed, which is 78% compliance. By law, notices will go out to all not-yetfiled persons on Thursday, May 16. We are in regular contact with our Ethics Liaisons in every City
department and Ward office as to not-yet-filed individuals. The goal: 100% compliance: no
violations.
Forms are posted on our website as soon as they are processed by staff – the goal is to have all filed
forms posted within 24 hours of when they are filed. Once posted, they reside on the Board’s
website for seven (7) years from the date of filing, after which they are removed and destroyed,
pursuant to the Board’s Document Retention Schedule kept with the Illinois Secretary of State and
Local Records Commission of Cook County.
Note: part of the amendment package approved Wednesday by City Council is that, beginning in
2020, the deadline for filing Statements of Financial Interests will be pushed up to May 1, not May
31.
All newly-elected officials must file before they take their oath of office on May 20, 2019. I
distributed Statements of Financial Interests to all newly-elected aldermen at the orientation a few
days ago, and we are working with LCGA to ensure that all newly-elected officials file on time.

H.

Advisory Opinions
Since the Board’s last meeting on April 29, we have issued 149 informal advisory opinions. The
leading categories were, in descending order: travel; Statements of Financial Interests; Gifts; Postemployment; City property (including proper website postings or blockings); and lobbying.
The leading City departments from which requesters came in this period were (in descending
order): Chicago Police Department; Mayor’s Office (including the Lightfoot Transition Team); City
Council; Department of Public Health; Department of Planning & Development; Chicago Public
Library; and the Offices of Management and Budget and Inspector General (“IG”).
Informal opinions are not made public but are logged, kept, and used for training and future
advisory purposes. (This same practice occurs with our colleagues at the New York City Conflicts of
Interest Board, who issue roughly the same number of informal opinions.) They form the basis for
much of our annual and periodic educational programs. Formal opinions are made public, in full text,
with names and other identifying information redacted out.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 5

I.

Summary Index of Formal Advisory Opinions/Text of all Formal Advisory Opinions
Every formal Board opinion issued since 1986 is posted on the Board’s website (more than 900 of
them), redacted in accordance with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions. Redacted opinions
are posted once issued by or reported to the Board. Further, summaries and keywords for each of
these opinions are available on the Board’s searchable index of opinions. Only a handful of other
ethics agencies have comparable research tools.
We are unaware of jurisdictions that make their informal opinions public—though others issue them
confidentially and enable requesters to rely on them in the event of an investigation or enforcement.

J.

Waivers
Since July 1, 2013, the Board has had authority to grant waivers from certain provisions in the Ethics
Ordinance. The Board has granted three (3), each involving a former City employee. By law, we make
these waivers public.

K.

Summary Index of Board-Initiated Regulatory Actions/Adjudications/pre-2013
Investigations
We post the summary index of all investigations, enforcement and regulatory actions undertaken by
the Board since its inception in 1986 (other than those for violations of filing or training
requirements or campaign financing matters). It includes an ongoing summary of all regulatory
actions the Board undertook without an IG investigation.
The Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties it assesses where authorized by law
to do so. There have been, to date, 122 such matters (including 4 on today’s agenda), but only in
those that occurred after July 1, 2013 can the Board release the names of those found to have
violated the Governmental Ethics Ordinance. Since July 1, 2013, alone, there have been 49 such
matters, including 4 from today. Eight (8) of these matters involved apparent campaign financing
violations; 34 (including 4 from today) have involved unregistered or undisclosed lobbying, or latefiling lobbyists.
The document makes clear that, despite comments made in the media over the last decade, the
Board has been a robust enforcement agency, though rarely acknowledged as such. This continues
through the Board’s ongoing regulatory actions, described above, and with respect to lobbying and
campaign financing, even though the Board no longer has investigative authority.

L.

Summary Index of Ongoing IG/LIG Investigations/Adjudications
We post and continually update, on our website, an ongoing investigative record showing the status
of every completed investigative report brought to the Board by both the IG (a total of eight (8) since
July 1, 2013) and the former Office of the Legislative Inspector General (“LIG”), since January 1,
2012, and the status of all 50 petitions to commence investigations presented to the Board by the
LIG. It is updated as appropriate, consistent with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 6
Whenever the IG presents the Board with a completed ethics investigation in which the IG believes
there have been any violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance, the procedure that follows is
governed by §2-156-385(3) and (4) of the Ordinance: the Board reviews the IG’s report,
recommendations, and the entirety evidence submitted in its completed ethics investigation,
including a review to ensure that the IG conformed with the requirement that it complete ethics
investigations within two (2) years of commencing them (unless there is evidence that the subject
took affirmative action to conceal evidence or delay the investigation), and that investigations are
commenced within two (2) of the last alleged act of misconduct.
Then, if the Board finds that the evidence presented warrants a prima facie finding of probable cause
to believe the subject violated the Ordinance, it notifies the subject of the allegations and affords the
subject the opportunity to present written submissions and meet with the Board, together with an
attorney or other representative present. The Ordinance provides that this meeting is ex parte – no
one from the City’s Law Department or IG is present. Note that the Board may request clarification
from the IG as to any evidence adduced in its investigation before making a probable cause finding
(and indeed has done so). The Board cannot administer oaths at this meeting, but can and does
assess the subject’s credibility and the validity and weight of any evidence the subject provides.
If the subject is unable to rebut the Board’s prima facie probable cause finding, the Board may enter
into a settlement agreement – all settlement agreements are made public – or the Board or subject
may decide to proceed to a merits hearing that is not open to the public. That hearing would be held
before an administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed by the Department of Administrative Hearings.
The City would be represented by the Law Department (or a specially hired Assistant Corporation
Counsel for that purpose), and the subject by his or her attorney. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the ALJ submits findings of fact and law to the Board, which can accept or reject them, based solely
on the record of the hearing. The Board will then issue a public opinion in which it finds one or more
violations of the Ethics Ordinance (or finds none) and imposes appropriate fines.
This process may seem cumbersome. However, it was added to the Ordinance and became effective
on July 1, 2013, based on specific recommendations of Mayor Emanuel’s Ethics Reform Task Force in
Part II of its 2012 Report – the primary purposes being (i): to guarantee due process for all those
investigated by the IG or former LIG; (ii) to ensure that only the Board of Ethics could make
determinations as to whether a person investigated by the IG or LIG violated the Ordinance, given
the Board’s extensive jurisprudence and unique expertise in ethics matters; and (iii) to balance due
process for those investigated by the IG with an accurate and precise adjudication by the Board of
Ethics and the public’s right to know of ethics violations.
On our website, we have a publication that describes this process in detail:
https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/ethics/general/Publications/EnforceProcedures.pdf
Two (2) of these eight (8) IG matters remain pending. In each, the Board settled the matters as to
the primary subjects, and commenced follow-up enforcement actions against secondary subjects.
Specifically:
In Case No. 18039.IG (corresponding to IG Case # 17-0082), the final investigative report was sent to
our office on November 30, 2018. The case involves prohibited gifts offered to a current and a nowformer City employee from a City subcontractor. At the Board’s February 2019 meeting, it
determined that the subcontractor and current City employee committed minor violations. Staff
sent a detailed explanation to the IG explaining the Board’s determination. The Board found
probable cause to conclude that the former City employee violated the Ordinance, and a subject
meeting is scheduled for the Board’s June meeting.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 7
In Case No. 18023.IG (corresponding to IG Case #17-0148), the IG presented its completed
investigative report and corroborating evidence on June 20, 2018. The case involves a now-former
employee who, the IG believed, violated the Ordinance by accepting gifts to a Cubs’ post-season
game from a business over which he had official authority, in excess of the Ordinance’s $50 per
source/per year limit, failed to report the gift on his annual Statement of Financial Interests, and
provided advice or assistance on matters concerning City business that were not wholly unrelated to
his City job. The Board made a prima facie probable cause finding at its July 2018 meeting, and
settled the matter with the former employee for a $500 fine. At its January 2019 meeting, the Board
found that there is probable cause to conclude that the gift-giver violated the Ordinance by giving
the former employee a prohibited gift. A meeting with the business-owner gift-giver is scheduled for
today. The gift-giver is subject to a fine between $1,001 - $5,000.
There are no other pending investigations from the IG.
Please note finally that, in all matters adjudicated or settled on or after July 1, 2013, the Board makes
public the names of all violators and penalties assessed, or a complete copy of the settlement
agreement.

M.

Disclosures of Past Violations
July 2013 amendments to the Ordinance provide that, when a person seeks advice from the Board
about past conduct, and discloses to the Board facts leading it to conclude that he or she committed a
past violation of the Ordinance, the Board must determine whether that violation was minor or nonminor. If it was minor, the Board, by law, sends the person a confidential letter of admonition. If it
was non-minor, then, under current law, the person is advised that he or she may self-report to the
IG or, if he or she fails to do so within two (2) weeks, the Board must make that report.
Since the time this provision (§2-156-070(b)) became effective on July 1, 2013, the Board has
advised three (3) aldermen, two (2) aldermanic staffers, one (1) mid-level City employee in an
operating department, one (1) department head and one (1) former department head that their past
conduct violated the Ordinance. In three (3) of these cases, one (1) involving an alderman, the
second an aldermanic staffer, and the third a former department head, the Board concluded that the
apparent violations were not minor or technical, and the aldermen and aldermanic staff selfreported to the former LIG, and the former department head self-reported to the IG. Since the time
that all matters involving the former LIG were consolidated with the IG, the IG has informed us that
it has no record that the LIG ever commenced an investigation in the matter involving the alderman,
and that the matter involving the aldermanic staff was closed, apparently without further
investigation by the LIG.
As noted above, the Board received a completed investigative report from the IG on May 26, 2017,
with a petition for a probable cause finding. The case was based on the Board’s earlier conclusion
that the subject appeared to have committed a non-minor past violation of the Ordinance, then
advised the subject of the self-reporting-to-the-IG provisions in the Ordinance. After the IG
investigated and confirmed the Board’s earlier conclusion, the matter was settled for a $1,500 fine.
The agreement is posted on our website.
In the three (3) cases in which the Board determined that minor violations had occurred, the Board
sent confidential letters of admonition, as required by the Ordinance.
There is no legal requirement imposed on the IG to report back to the Board on any actions it takes
on matters or persons referred to it by the Board, unless the IG completes an investigation and

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 8
submits a petition for a finding of probable cause to the Board based on that investigation. This is
unlike the arrangement in New York City between its Conflicts of Interests Board and Department of
Investigation, and the Board’s current draft of Ordinance changes would require the IG to make such
reports to the Board, confidentially.

N.

Lobbyists-Regulation and Enforcement
To date for 2019, there are 754 registered lobbyists. We have collected $385,875 in lobbyist
registration fees.
First Quarter lobbying activity reports were due on or before April 22. We sent out reminders of this
deadline to all lobbyists via email on March 29. On April 24, as required by law, we notified the 28
lobbyists who had not yet filed. One (1) lobbyist was determined to have violated the Ordinance for
failure to file by the deadline, and his name and violation were posted on our website on May 9. He
filed before the time in which fines would be imposed, so he was not fined.

O.

Freedom of Information Act
Since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting, the office has received one (1) new request under
the Freedom of Information Act. The request was for help regarding unsafe conditions at a property
within the City. This agency responded that it was not the correct department from which to request
records and had no responsive records.

V.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Daniel Wolk, from Chicago Documenters, thanked the Board for allowing the public the opportunity to
comment on the proposed ethics amendments, and stated that one of his concerns, which he understands
the Board has addressed, is that real estate developers exert influence through campaign contributions that
is out of balance.

VI.

OLD BUSINESS
Approval of Board-proposed amendments to the City’s ethics laws
The Executive Director reiterated that the Board’s statutory power and duty is to recommend legislative
changes, and is proud to do so now, as it did eight (8) years ago when the Emanuel Administration began.
Many of the Board’s suggestions made at the time were picked up by the Ethics Reform Task Force, and then
codified it into the Governmental Ethics Ordinance. We hope that continues, and appreciate the opportunity
to assist the Mayor and City Council.

VII.

NEW BUSINESS
Semi-Annual Review of the Confidentiality of Executive Session Minutes under the Illinois Open Meetings
Act
The Board will consider in executive session staff’s recommendation with respect to continued
confidentiality of executive session minutes pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 9

At 12:20 p.m., the Board VOTED 5-0 (Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to adjourn into
Executive Session under: (i) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1) to discuss the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the
public body to determine its validity. However, a meeting to consider an increase in compensation to a specific
employee of a public body that is subject to the Local Government Wage Increase Transparency Act may not be
closed and shall be open to the public and posted and held in accordance with this Act; (ii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) to
hear and discuss evidence or testimony in closed hearing as specifically authorized pursuant to Governmental
Ethics Ordinance Sections 2-156-385 and -392, and the Board’s Rules and Regulations, as amended, effective
January 5, 2017, presented to a quasi-adjudicative body, as defined in the Illinois Open Meetings Act, provided that
the body prepares and makes available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative
reasoning; and (iii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(21) to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this Act, whether for
purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated by Section 2.06.
At 1:43 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to
reconvene into open session.
MATTER CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION
VIII.

APPROVAL OF THE EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES
The Board confirmed its discussion in executive session, VOTING 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade
and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) in open session, to approve the executive session minutes, of the
April 26, 2019 meeting.

IX.

NEW BUSINESS
Semi-Annual Review of the Confidentiality of Executive Session Minutes under the Illinois Open Meetings
Act
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to
approve continued confidentiality of the executive session minutes of the Board.

X.

OLD BUSINESS
Approval of Board-proposed amendments to the City’s ethics laws
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to
approve the package of suggested amendments to the City’s ethics laws with two alterations: (i) the
maximum fine for substantive violations other than campaign financing, training, late filing, and late lobbyist
registration be set at $20,000, not $5,000 or $10,000, as in previous drafts; and (ii) the suggested
amendment to the campaign contribution provision (§2-156-445(a)), should subject real estate developers
to the Ordinance’s $1,500 per candidate/per calendar year contribution limitation for one full year after
their matters receive final approval from the last City body or department whose approval is required, not
for just six (6) months after that final approval, as in previous drafts.

 Open Session Minutes
May 14, 2019
Page 10
XI.

CASEWORK
A.

Board Meeting with Respondent Gift-Giver Pursuant to §2-156-385(3) of the Governmental
Ethics Ordinance after Issuance of Probable Cause Finding
1.

Case No. 18023.IG.2, Gifts
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,
absent), after meeting with respondent and his attorney, to sustain a finding of probable cause
against the respondent. The Board determined that, at this stage in the proceeding, the
evidence showed that the respondent violated the Ordinance’s Gift and Other Favors provision,
§2-156-142, by giving a prohibited gift to a City employee. The Board voted to seek to settle
this matter by imposing the minimum $1001 fine, pursuant to §2-156-385(4) and Board Rule
4-1(d).

B.

Potential Issuance of Probable Cause Notices
2.

Case No. 19018.C.1., Unregistered Lobbying

3.

Case No. 19018.C.2., Unregistered Lobbying

5.

Case No. 19018.C.4., Unregistered Lobbying
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,
absent) to find that there is probable cause to conclude unregistered lobbying occurred in
these three cases and, accordingly, to issue notices of the Board’s findings of probable cause.

6.

Case No. 19018.C.3., Unregistered Lobbying
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,
absent) to find that there is no probable cause to conclude unregistered lobbying occurred in
this case and, accordingly, to dismiss and close this case.

XII.

OTHER BUSINESS
None

At 1:55 p.m., the Board voted 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to
adjourn the meeting.
bd-minutes-6-14-19-os-ff

 