Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Minutes of the Business and Economic Development Committee
9:15 AM
Wednesday, December 13, 2017

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:

García, Arroyo, Deer, Gainer and Morrison (5)

Absent:

Moody, Butler, Moore and Schneider (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman Garcia asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code.
1.

Beth Wanless
18-1064

COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 11/15/2017
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to approve
18-1064. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Deer, Gainer and Morrison (5)

Absent:

Moody, Butler, Moore and Schneider (4)
17-6085

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and GREGG GOSLIN, Cook County Board Of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Page 1 of 15

 KTR ILL, LLC D.B.A. PROLOGIS 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: KTR ILL, LLC d.b.a. Prologis
Address: 514-532 S. Hicks Road, Palatine, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Palatine
Cook County District: 14
Permanent Index Number: 02-23-313-037-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Palatine, Resolution No. R-22-17
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 13 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
TEERM (TEMPORARY EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION
(Vacant for more than 12 months but less than 24 months - No Purchase for Value)
Justification: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: None
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 30 full-time jobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20 construction workers
Proposed use of property: Industrial use, warehousing, manufacturing and/or distribution.
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial/commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
Page 2 of 15

 municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property as abandoned for purpose of the Class 6b TEERM (TEMPORARY
EMERGENY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment according to the TEERM definition, abandonment is defined as
a facility being vacant over 12 months but less than 24 months with no purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, in such instances, the County may determine that special circumstances exist under
TEERM; thus qualifying the property as abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b TEERM requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as
abandoned for the purpose of the Class 6b TEERM; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b TEERM is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition
of abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b TEERM; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
A motion was made by Commissioner Gainer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to
recommend for approval 17-6085. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

García, Deer and Morrison (3)

Nayes:

Arroyo and Gainer (2)

Absent:

Moody, Butler, Moore and Schneider (4)
17-6086

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and EDWARD M. MOODY, Cook County Board
Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
LaMASTUS DEVELOPMENT CO. INC. CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE
REQUEST
Page 3 of 15

 WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:
Applicant: LaMastus Development Co. Inc.
Address: 11 N. Steger Road & 13-15 W. Steger Road, Steger, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Steger
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: 32-32-429-025-0000 and 32-32-429-015-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Steger, Ordinance No. 1146
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Number of months vacant over 24 months
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Four (4) full-time jobs, 10 part-time jobs
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: None
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: N/A
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Commercial use - Restaurant
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: No, commercial use
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 8 that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial
facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property as being deemed
abandoned; and
Page 4 of 15

 WHEREAS, Class 8 requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as abandoned for
the purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to
recommend for approval 17-6086. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Deer, Gainer and Morrison (5)

Absent:

Moody, Butler, Moore and Schneider (4)
17-6096

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HIRSCH BUILDING, LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Hirsch Building, LLC
Address: 3003 Hirsch Avenue, Melrose Park, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Melrose Park
Cook County District: 16
Permanent Index Number: 15-04-201-037-0000
Page 5 of 15

 Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Melrose Park Resolution No. 45-17
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 15 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 37 full-time, 12 temporary jobs
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: None
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: See above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 20-30 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Industrial - Manufacturing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
Page 6 of 15

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to
recommend for approval 17-6096, as corrected in the Errata. The motion carried by the
following vote:
Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Deer, Gainer and Moore (5)

Absent:

Moody, Butler, Morrison and Schneider (4)
17-6106

Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, Cook County
Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PLASTIC RECOVERY TECHNOLOGIES 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Plastic Recovery Technologies
Address: 920 Remington Road, Schaumburg, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Village of Schaumburg
Cook County District: 15
Permanent Index Number: 07-11-400-030-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of Schaumburg Resolution No. R-17-097
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 13 months vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 15 full-time jobs, three (3) part-time jobs
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 10 full-time jobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: None
Page 7 of 15

 Proposed use of property: Industrial use warehousing and distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation ; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested
buyer, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property as being deemed
abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as abandoned for
the purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
A motion was made by Commissioner Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Arroyo, to
recommend for approval 17-6106. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Nayes:
Absent:

García, Arroyo, Deer and Morrison (4)
Gainer (1)
Moody, Butler, Moore and Schneider (4)
17-9977
Page 8 of 15

 Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
TAX INCENTIVE ORDINANCE
Sec. 74-68. - Classification system to apply with tax assessment year.
(a) The incentive provisions of this Division provided to qualifying parcels of real estate for Class 6b,
Class C, Class 7a, Class 7b, and Class 8 shall expire on December 31, 2025, unless otherwise reviewed by
action of the County. Real estate granted a Class 6, Class 6a, Class 6b, Class 7, or Class 8, Class 9, Class
C, Class S or Class L classification on or before April 15, 2017, and any renewals thereof, shall retain
such classification under the terms and conditions of this Division prior to April 16, 2017. Real estate for
which an application for Class 6a, Class 6b, Class 7, or Class 8, Class C, Class S or Class L classification
is filed with the Assessor on or before April 15, 2017, and which thereafter is determined by the Assessor
to be eligible for the classification under the terms and conditions of this Division after April 16, 2017,
and any renewals thereof, shall be entitled to receive such classification under such terms and conditions.
(b) Real estate granted a Class 6b, Class 6c, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classification on or before
December 31, 1999, shall retain such classification under the terms and conditions of this Division prior
to January 1, 2000. Real estate for which an application for Class 6b, Class 6c, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class
8 classification is filed with the Assessor on or before December 31, 1999, and which thereafter is
determined by the Assessor to be eligible for classification under the terms and conditions of this Division
existing prior to January 1, 2000, shall be entitled to receive such classification under such terms and
conditions.
(c) Real Estate granted a Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8 classification on or before
December 31, 2004, shall retain such classification under the terms and conditions of the Ordinance prior
to January 1, 2005. Real estate for which an application for Class 6b, Class 7a, Class 7b or Class 8
classification is filed with the Assessor on or before December 31, 2004, and which thereafter is
determined by the Assessor to be eligible for classification under the terms and conditions of this
Ordinance existing prior to January 1, 2005, shall be entitled to receive such classification under such
terms and conditions.
Sec. 74-71. - Laws regulating the payment of wages.
(a) For the purposes of this Section:
Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily
residential property. "Property tax incentive" shall not include a Class 9 designation granted to
supportive living facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income
older persons and persons with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the State
Department of Public Aid pursuant to Division 2 of this Article; and Sales tax means the
Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.
(a)(b) Living wage requirement.
Page 9 of 15

 (1) Unless expressly waived by the County Board, any Employer occupying a property that
receives a property tax incentive for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property,
or Class 9 multifamily residential property shall pay not less than the Living Wage, as
defined in the Cook County Procurement Code (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. IV,
Div. 1 § 34-121), to each of its onsite Employees, unless such Employees' Wages are
governed by Federal or State prevailing wage law. For purpose of this Section, the term
"Employee" shall mean an Employee who performs duties or services for an Employer on
average at least 30 hours per week in any two-week period for which the Employee is paid;
"hours per week" shall mean hours for which an Employee is paid or entitled to payment by
the Employer for a period of time during which no duties are performed by the Employee due
to vacation, holiday, illness, incapacity, jury duty, military duty or approved leave of absence.
(2) On and after July 1, 2020, the owner of any property that receives a property tax incentive
shall notify all Employers who occupy such property as lessees of the requirements of this
Section. Upon commencement of a lease, on or after July 1, 2020, of a property that receives
a property tax incentive, any new lessee shall be required to submit to the municipality or the
Cook County Board, as the case may be, an affidavit stating that such lessee is paying a
Living Wage to its Employees in compliance with this Section. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, the requirements of this Section shall not apply to an Employer who is
a lessee and not an owner-occupant of a property that receives a Class 8 industrial property
tax incentive or an Employer who was a lessee and not an owner-occupant of a property that
receives a property tax incentive prior to July 1, 2020.
(3) This Section shall not apply to Employers that are not-for-profit organizations or funded by
Federal grants or Federal loans or Employers who are lessees but are not owners of a
property that receives a property tax incentive prior to adoption of this amended Ordinance.
Further, this Section shall not apply to Employers who can demonstrate to the County Board
that compliance with the requirements of this Section would cause such Employer to be in
violation of the terms of a collective bargaining agreement between the Employer and a labor
union.
(4) Every Employer required to pay the Living Wage shall notify its Employees of the Living
Wage requirements and shall notify all of its Employees annually of any adjustment to the
Living Wage. In addition, the Employer shall notify its Employees that if any Employee
contends that the Employer is not paying a Living Wage or has otherwise violated this
section, that Employee may file a complaint with the Cook County Commissioner on Human
Rights ("Commission"). The Commissioner shall investigate alleged violations of the Living
Wage Ordinance and is authorized to adopt regulations for the proper administration and
enforcement of its provisions. If at the conclusion of the Commission's investigation, the
Commission finds that the Employer has violated this section, it shall (i) in the case of an
Employer receiving a property tax incentive, notify the Assessor and the municipality, or the
County, as the case may be; or (ii) in the case of a Contractor or a subcontractor required to
pay the Living Wage, notify the Chief Procurement Officer, who shall exercise such remedies
as are in the best interest of the County, including ordering the Employer to pay back pay and
penalties, as provided in this section.
(5) If an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, such Employer may be required to
Page 10 of 15

 pay back pay to each affected Employee, and may also be fined by the County up to $100.00
for each affected Employee for each day paid at less than the Living Wage. Such penalties
will not be imposed on any Person except after a hearing (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 2,
Art. IX). Further, if an Employer is found to be in violation of this section, the property tax
incentive for this property is subject to revocation.
(6) If an Employer is found to have retaliated against an affected Employee, the Employer's
property tax incentive may be terminated unless such Employer appropriately reinstates or
compensates such Employee.
(7) For the purposes of this Section:
Property tax incentive means a reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article for Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily
residential property. "Property tax incentive" shall not include a Class 9 designation granted to
supportive living facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for low income
older persons and persons with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the State
Department of Public Aid pursuant to Division 2 of this Article; and Sales tax means the
Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.
(8)(7) Living Wage Affidavit. Every municipality or the Cook County Board that provides a
Resolution or Ordinance or authorized officer letter, as the case may be, to an applicant for
a Class 6b industrial property or a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive shall maintain
in its files and records documentation that such municipality or the County Board received
and filed the Living Wage Affidavit submitted by the applicantowner or lessee of such
property stating that such applicantowner or lessee is paying a Living Wage to its
Employees in compliance with this Section. Further, an applicant or lessee of a Class 9
multifamily residential property tax incentive shall provide the municipality or the Cook
County Board, as the case may be, a Living Wage Affidavit which shall be maintained by
such municipality or the Cook County Board in its files and records. For purposes of clarity
and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Employers who are lessees and not
owner-occupants shall not be required to comply with the requirements of this paragraph
until on or after July 1, 2020. Further, the requirements of this paragraph shall not be
applicable to a lessee of a property that receives a Class 8 industrial property tax incentive.
(b)(c) State or Federal Laws.
(1) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly finds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person
including any Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34367) shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this
Article if, during the five-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or
Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) admitted
guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative
proceeding of committing a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and
Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et
seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq.,
Page 11 of 15

 the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the
Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938,
29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which
governs the payment of wages.
(2) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial
Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) who seeks a property
tax incentive from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying that the Person
or Substantial Owner (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has not
violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a)(1) of this Section.
(3) If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in
Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. V § 34-367) has admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a
repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS
115/1 et seq., the Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment
and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820
ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any
comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of wages
during the five-year period prior to the date of the application, but after the County has
reclassified the Person's or Substantial Owner's (as defined in Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch.
34, Art. V § 34-367) subject property under a property tax incentive classification, then, after
notice from the Assessor of such violation, the Person or Substantial Owner shall have 45
days to cure its violation and request an exception or waiver from the Assessor. Failure to
cure or obtain an exception or waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve as grounds
for revocation of the classification as provided by the Assessor or by the County Board by
Resolution or Ordinance. In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classification
shall be deemed null and void for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked or
cancelled as to the subject property. In such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and
shall reimburse to the County Collector an amount equal to the difference in the amount of
taxes that would have been collected had the subject property not received the property tax
incentive.

(d) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
who seeks a property tax incentive from the County that the applicant pays a Wage as defined in Section
42-8 to its employees in accordance with Sections 42-7 through 42-15 of the Cook County Code.
Sec. 74-72. - Compliance with laws.
(a) Beginning on July 1, 2018, Aan owner of real estate that is an applicant for an incentive under any
Assessment Class for which a Resolution or Ordinance from the municipality or the County Board is
required, or where an authorized officer letter is obtained in lieu of such Resolution or Ordinance, that
describes why the incentive is necessary for the development to occur and that an Economic Disclosure
Statement was received and filed by the municipality or the County Board, or a lessee of such real estate
is, hereby, required to conduct its business or activities comply in Cook County in compliance with -the
Page 12 of 15

 following all applicable ordinances, laws and regulations for as long as such owner or lessee occupies
such
real estate that is the recipient of an incentive, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The Cook County Workforce Resource Ordinance (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 2, Art. XIV)
as applicable;
(2) The Cook County Wage Theft Ordinance (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 34, Art. IV, Div. 4 §
34-179);
(3) The Cook County Human Rights Ordinance (Cook County, Ill., Code, Ch. 42, Art. II);
(4) The Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/2-105);
(5) Title VII and Title IX of the Civil Rights Act (42 USC § 2000e, et seq.);
(6) The Age Discrimination in Employment Act (29 USC §§ 621-634); and
(7) The Americans with Disabilities Act (42 USC §§ 12101-12213).
(b) Every municipality, or the Cook County Board as the case may be, that provides a Resolution
or Ordinance or authorized officer letter to an applicant for an incentive under any Assessment Class shall
maintain in its files and records documentation that such municipality, or the Cook County Board as the
case may be, received and filed such applicant's Economic Disclosure Statement. Further, every
municipality, or the Cook County Board as the case may be, that provides a Resolution or Ordinance or
authorized officer letter shall require that the owner of real estate that is an applicant for an incentive
under any Assessment Class, or a lessee of such real estate, submit an affidavit to such municipality, or
the Cook County Board as the case may be, that such applicant owner or lessee is in compliance in Cook
County with all the laws listed in subsection (a) herein. applicable laws.
Sec. 74-73. - Revocation or cancellation of incentive classification.
(a) The following Incentive Classifications are subject to revocation herein: Class 6b (special
circumstances); Class 6b TEERM; Class 6b SER; Class 7a; Class 7b; Class 7c; Class 8; and Class 8
TEERM.
(b) The incentive may be revoked under the following circumstances:
1. By rule, as provided by the Assessor;
2. By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance for property tax incentives awarded in
unincorporated Cook County, which revocation is based on a report from the Bureau of
Economic Development that has been approved by the Economic Development Advisory
Committee of the County;
3. By the County Board by Resolution or Ordinance at the request of the Municipality by
submission of a Municipal Resolution or Ordinance; and
Page 13 of 15

 4. By request of the taxpayer to cancel.
(c) A basis for revocation pursuant to Section 74-73(b)(2) or (b)(3) above includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
1. Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 74-71 or 74-72;
2. Delinquency in the payment of any property taxes administered by Cook County or by a local
municipality; or
3. Inaccuracies or omissions in documents submitted by the taxpayer, including, but not limited
to, the application and the Economic Disclosure Statement.
Sec. 74-74 - Employer Paid Sick Leave.
(a) Except where a Person has requested an exception from the Assessor and the County Board
expressly finds that granting the exception is in the best interest of the County, such Person including any
Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code)
shall be ineligible to receive any property tax incentive noted in Division 2 of this Article if, during the
five-year period prior to the date of the application, such Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in Part
I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or
willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq., the Illinois
Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification
Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29 U.S.C. 2101 et
seq., the
Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et. seq., the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C.
201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state, which governs the payment of
wages.
(b) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
(as defined in Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) who seeks is an
applicant for a property tax incentive from the County as noted in Division 2 of this Article certifying
that the Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in Part I, Chapter, Article V, Section 34-367 of the
Cook County Code) has not violated the statutory provisions identified in Subsection (a) of this Section.
(c) If the County or Assessor becomes aware that a Person or Substantial Owner (as defined in
Part I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) has admitted guilt or liability or
has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a
repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 et seq.,
the Illinois Minimum Wage Act, 820 ILCS 105/1 et seq., the Illinois Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, 820 ILCS 65/1 et seq., the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, 29
U.S.C. 2101 et seq., the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq., the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any
state, which governs the payment of wages during the five-year period prior to the date of the
application, but after the County has reclassified the Person's or Substantial Owner's (as defined in Part
I, Chapter 34, Article V, Section 34-367 of the Cook County Code) subject property under a property
tax incentive classification, then, after notice from the Assessor of such violation, the Person or
Substantial Owner shall have 45 days to cure its violation and request an exception or waiver from the
Page 14 of 15

 Assessor. Failure to cure or obtain an exception or waiver of ineligibility from the Assessor shall serve
as grounds for revocation of the classification as provided by the Assessor or by the County Board by
Resolution or Ordinance. In case of revocation or cancellation, the Incentive Classification shall be
deemed null and void for the tax year in which the incentive was revoked or cancelled as to the subject
property. In such an instance, the taxpayer shall be liable for and shall reimburse to the County
Collector an amount equal to the difference in the amount of taxes that would have been collected had
the subject property not received the property tax incentive.
(d) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit or certification from every Person and Substantial Owner
who seeks is an applicant for a property tax incentive from the County that the applicant pays a Wage
as defined in Section 42-12 to its employees in accordance with Sections 42-11 through 42-19 of the
Cook County Code.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Chairman Garcia indicated 17-9977 will be deferred
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Arroyo, seconded by Commissioner Morrison that this
was adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

García, Arroyo, Deer, Gainer and Morrison (5)

Absent:

Moody, Butler, Moore and Schneider (4)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 15 of 15

 