 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Contract Compliance Committee

Tuesday, March 11, 2014 9:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board?s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee
meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have
submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time
speci?ed in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the
time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar,
abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in
expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

14-0117
Report

Department: Finance Administration

Request: referral to the appropriate committee or subcommittee of the Board
Report Title: Chicago Botanic Garden Expenditure Report
Report Period: 9/12/2012 - 12/31/2013

Summary: Submitting the Chicago Botanic Garden Minority Business Enterprise/Women Business Enterprise
Actual Expenditures Report.

Legislative History: 2/18/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Contract Compliance Committee

14-0118
Report

Department: Finance Administration

Request: referral to the appropriate committee or subcommittee of the Board
Report Title: Chicago Zoological Society Expenditures Report
Report Period: 9/12/2012 - 12/31/2013

Summary: Submitting the Chicago Zoological Society Minority Business Enterprise/Women Business
Enterprise Actual Expenditures Report.

Legislative History: 2/18/14 PD Board of Commissioners referred to the Contract Compliance Committee

14-01 19
Report

Department: Finance Administration

Request: referral to the appropriate committee or subcommittee of the Board
Report Title: Forest Preserve of Cook County BE Expenditures Report
Report Period: 9/12/2012 - 12/31/2013

Summary: Submitting the Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Minority Business Enterprise/Women Business Enterprise Actual Expenditures Report.

Legislative History: 2/1 8/ 14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Contract Compliance Committee



Maft/ hewB. DeLeon

 

Secretary
Chairman: Steele
Vice-Chairman: Silvestri
Members: Butter, Garcia, Gorman, Moore, Murphy, Reyes and Sims

Page 2 of 2

