Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Agenda

Public Hearing
Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia Horton, Chairman of Finance Gloria Alitto
Majewski, Commissioner Barbara J. McGowan, Vice-President Kathleen Therese Meany,
Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Thursday, October 7, 2010

9:30 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
Roll Call
Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

10-1091

Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will hold a public hearing at 9:30
a.m. on the 7th day of October 2010 in the Board Room in the
Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago,
Illinois. The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public comments on
the intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to issue not to
exceed $500,000,000 General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds to
provide funds required for the replacing, remodeling, completing, altering,
constructing and enlarging of sewage treatment works, water quality
improvement projects, or flood control facilities, and additions therefor,
including, but not limited to, the construction of pumping stations, tunnels,
conduits, intercepting sewers and outlet sewers, together with the
equipment, including air pollution equipment, and appurtenances thereto,
to acquire property, real, personal or mixed, necessary for said purposes,
and for costs and expenses for the acquisition of the sites and
rights-of-way necessary thereto, and for engineering expenses for
designing and supervising the construction of such works and other related
and incidental expenses.
By order of Terrence J. O’Brien, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago.
Dated the 23rd day of September 2010.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Printed on 9/30/2010

 Public Hearing

2

10-1116

Agenda

October 7, 2010

Report on the District’s Capital Projects to be funded by the anticipated
December 2010 Bond Sale

Open Discussion
Adjournment

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

Printed on 9/30/2010

 