Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, March 22, 2016

9:40 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will
keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to
provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting,
or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing future testimony.

16-0157
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 12/15/2015

 15-0708
Sponsored by: LUIS ARROYO JR., County Commissioner, TONI PRECKWINKLE, President,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JOHN A. FRITCHEY, BRIDGET
GAINER, JESÚS G. GARCÍA, GREGG GOSLIN, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M. MORRISON, JOAN
PATRICIA MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SUPPORTING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A VETERANS’ MEMORIAL HONORING THOSE
WHO FOUGHT AND DIED IN OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM, OPERATION IRAQI
FREEDOM, AND OPERATION NEW DAWN
WHEREAS, the freedoms we enjoy as Americans have been demonstrated through patriotic commitment
and sacrifice of many veterans from Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County veterans are owed a great debt for serving in defense of this nation; and
WHEREAS, those sacrifices of our veterans have resulted in permanent injury or death, yet their spirit
remains in the continued promise and perseverance of liberty for all the oppressed individuals throughout
our world; and
WHEREAS, over 2 million members of the United States Armed Forces have been deployed to warzones
since the commencement of Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and Operation New
Dawn; and
WHEREAS; many have been deployed for multiple tours of duty. More than 5,500 troops have been
killed while serving in Iraq or Afghanistan, and tens of thousands have been seriously wounded in the line
of duty; and
WHEREAS, in honor of these dedicated citizens of Cook County, the Cook County Forest Preserve
Commissioners wish to memorialize the enduring efforts of our veterans in preserving the site at the Cook
County Forest Preserve Headquarters area as a lasting symbol to the principles of freedom and democracy;
and
WHEREAS, family members, friends and those of every walk of life may be offered a sanctuary, to reflect
on the lives of those that have made the ultimate sacrifice and those still serving; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, it is hereby decreed by the Cook County Forest Preserve
Commissioners that a memorial be designed and built on the land where the Cook County Forest Preserve
Headquarters resides; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Forest Preserve shall accept entries for the Memorial’s design
and construction from our Cook County Colleges and Universities, while working with members of the
Veterans Assistance Commission, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Iraq and Afghanistan Veteran Association,
Chicago Veterans, Superintendent of the Cook County Forest Preserve District and two members of the
Cook County Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners; and
Page 2 of 4

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that those United States Armed Service heroes from Cook County that
have fallen during the line of duty post 911 shall have their name inscribed on the Memorial.
10/31/2015
Legislative History 12/15/15 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real EstateCommittee

16-0042
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as
Licensor to grant a License to National Wireless Ventures, LLC., Grantee, to locate, operate and
maintain a communications tower near the intersection of 31st Street and Prairie Avenue on the
Preserves land currently managed by agreement with the Brookfield Zoo. The location of the
communications tower is upon a distressed maintenance area of the Brookfield Zoo not open to the
public. This site has been approved by the staff of the Preserves and the Brookfield Zoo. Grantee is
solely responsible for compliance with all the Preserves and County ordinance and permit requirements
related to construction, operation and removal of communication towers .
Term: Five (5) years with four (4) additional five-year extension terms.
License Fee: During the term of the License, Grantee shall pay the Preserves $30,000.00 Base Fee
annually beginning upon the Construction Start Date. Additionally, after the first sublicense, Grantee
shall pay a Sublicense Fee of $9,750.00 annually for each additional sublicense added to the
communication tower. Both the Base Fee and Sublicense Fee shall increase by 3% annually. These fees
are to be collected monthly.
License Application Fee: N/A (revenue generating)
YELAR Fee: N/A (revenue generating)
Total one-time upfront fee of $12,000.00 (payable as $2,000.00 at time of execution of the License and
$10,000.00 on the Construction Start date) in further additional compensation is due to the Preserves
from the Grantee for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: 1650 sq. ft.
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff reviewed this license application and plans and found them to be acceptable;
Page 3 of 4

 therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the
issuance of this license.
District(s): 16
Legislative History 1/12/16 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

16-0071
EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”) to
grant a temporary easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) at Cicero Avenue (IL
Rte 50) at Midlothian Creek in the Midlothian Meadows Preserve for 0.05 Acres or 2,059 square feet.
Reason: IDOT proposes to replace the existing 60-80 year old culverts that convey Midlothian Creek
under Cicero Avenue with a new concrete structure. The temporary easement is needed for grading to
align the existing stream bank with the new structure. The proposed stream bank grading will reduce the
existing stream bank erosion along the south bank of the creek, on the Preserves’ land.
No permanent structures are proposed to be built on District land.
The area for the temporary easement is 0.05 acres. IDOT indicates that no trees are expected to be
removed for this project.
Easement Fee: $8,200.00
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.
District(s): 5
Legislative History 2/9/16 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee

_____________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Murphy
Vice Chairman: Moore
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

 