Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Chairman of Finance Frank
Avila, Commissioner Timothy Bradford, Vice President
Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos,
Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner Kari K. Steele,
Commissioner David J. Walsh, President Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos
Thursday, October 29, 2015

10:00 AM

Board Room

COMMITTEE ON BUDGET AND EMPLOYMENT

Call Meeting to Order
President Mariyana T. Spyropoulos presiding, called the meeting to order at
10:15a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

8-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; and Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

1-

Michael A. Alvarez

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
15-0931
Public Notice is Hereby Given that the Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the “District”) will
hold a public hearing at 10:00 a.m. on the 29th day of October, 2015, in the
Board Room at the Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street,
Chicago, Illinois. The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public
comments on the Capital Improvement Program.
Attached for your information is the 2016 Budget Schedule

/s/Jacqueline Torres
Clerk, Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
Attachments:

2016 Budget Calendar
2015 Presentation CIP
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Kari K. Steele, that this
Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes

October 29, 2015

Open Discussion
Dr. Catherine O'Connor, Director of Engineering, gave a presentation on the current
and future Capital Improvement Projects, Stormwater Projects and Green
Instrastructure Projects included in the 2016 Budget and the District's 5-year plan.
David St. Pierre, Executive Director, gave a presentation on the funding of the Capital
Improvement Projects and Stormwater Projects.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Timothy Bradford, seconded by Kari K. Steele, move that
this Public Hearing be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote: /s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

8-

Frank Avila; Timothy Bradford; Barbara J. McGowan; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra
Shore; Kari K. Steele; David J. Walsh; Mariyana T. Spyropoulos

Absent:

1-

Michael A. Alvarez

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the foregoing
agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this October 29, 2015, are hereby
approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Mariyana T. Spryopoulos
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
October 29, 2015

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 