REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON AUDIT
February 27, 2002

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County
ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Daley, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Butler, Hansen and
Lechowicz (5)

Ex Officio
Members:

Laura A. Burman, County Auditor and Thomas Glaser, Chief Financial Officer (2)

Absent:

None.

Also
Present

Commissioner Moran; Patrick Driscoll, Chief-Civil Actions Bureau, Cook County
State’s Attorney’s Office; John Chambers, Comptroller-Bureau of Finance; Ronald J.
Banks, Comptroller-Clerk of the Circuit Court; Vincent Garrett, Director of the
Computer Aided Booking System-Sheriff’s Office; Jack J. Kelly, Chief Financial
Officer-Sheriff’s Office; Kimberly Feeney, Chief Financial Officer-Cook County
Treasurer’s Office; Gary Fink, Arthur Andersen LLP; Dan G. Parmer, D.V.M.,
Administrator-Department of Animal Control; Ray Wolverton, Director of Technical
Services-Recorder of Deeds Office; Catherine Maras O’Leary, Chief Information
Officer-Bureau of Information Technology and Automation; Ray Balcarcel, Director of
Financial Control-Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office; Dan Degnan, Assistant Chief
Financial Officer-Treasurer’s Office; Barb Bruno, Director-Cook County Department of
Revenue; Donald H. Wlodarski, Commissioner-Department of Building and Zoning;
William Franek, Ph.D., Manager-Department of Environmental Control; Marlene
Dantino, Chief Financial Officer-Department of Highways; and Alvin Starks, Deputy
Director-Bureau of Administration.

Court
Reporter:
Anthony W. Lisanti, C.S.R.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Audit of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice
on Wednesday, February 27, 2002 at the hour of 11:00 AM in the Board Room, Room 569, County
Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:
Following the call of the meeting, Chairman Daley stated for the record that he and other members of
the Audit Committee submitted questions on the following audit reports and requested responses from
various county agencies (ref. Attachment 1).

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 2

1. 248518

CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT, Dorothy Brown, transmitting a Communication,
dated December 4, 2001:
Please find the submitted Fiscal Years 1999 and 2000 Independent Audit Reports and
their related Memorandum on Internal Controls for the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit
Court. Please accept these reports and refer them to the Cook County Audit
Committee for the appropriate review.
*Referred to the Audit Committee on December 18, 2001

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page one regarding the status of the conversion of
records to an integrated cashiering system, Ronald Banks stated the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit
Court was completing its review and validation of information contained in an integrated study done by
UNISYS and was finalizing the specifications on a Request for Proposal (RFP) for a new Integrated
Cashiering System.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's inquiry on the approximate cost of an integrated cashiering
system, Mr. Banks stated he estimated a cost of over $3 million.
Commissioner Hansen requested a target date for completion of a RFP and its submittal to the Board.
Mr. Banks stated he anticipated the RFP would be forwarded to the Purchasing Agent and submitted to
the Board by April 1, 2002.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page two regarding if full recovery of
overpayments to municipalities on traffic disbursements versus receipts during the 2001 fiscal year has
been completed, Mr. Banks stated that the Office has recovered and reduced the receivables cited in
the report with the exception of three municipalities.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page two regarding the status of escheatment of
Child Support checks outstanding from 1981 to June 1994, Mr. Banks stated this item was completed
on November 1, 2001 with the escheatment of $372,924.49 in outstanding Child Support checks to the
State of Illinois Department of Financial Institutions in accordance with the Illinois Unclaimed Property
Statute.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page four regarding if the Office had requested a
legal opinion from the State's Attorney's Office related to writing off NSF checks deemed uncollectable,
Mr. Banks stated the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit sent correspondence dated November 15, 2001
requesting a legal opinion but had not yet received a response from the State's Attorney.
Chairman Daley called on Patrick Driscoll to respond to the status of a legal opinion from the State's
Attorney's Office to the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court on this issue.
Mr. Driscoll stated that approximately three months ago the State's Attorney received several requests
for legal opinions from the Circuit Clerk on the issues found on pages 4, 5 and 6 of this Internal Control
Memorandum Audit Report. He noted the State's Attorney had just received a copy of the report
yesterday and should have a response to the Clerk on each request in seven to ten days.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page seven regarding if the Office had automated
reconciling the Cash Bond Account, Mr. Banks stated this was completed November 30, 2001 with all

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 3
supporting documentation retained and a uniform procedure for the release of bonds when probation is
a factor is in place.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page eight regarding the status of the Office's
review of its escheatment procedure or policy relating to compliance with statutory requirements, Mr.
Banks stated the review has been completed, escheatment of outstanding Child Support checks and
Bail Bonds was done in 2001 and to date the Office is in compliance with the requirements of the Illinois
Unclaimed Property State and Abandoned Bond Statute.
Commissioner Butler commented on the length of time to cash a check and the recent change from 90
days to 30 days. He requested information from the State's Attorney on whether the County would still
be liable for funds on checks outstanding after 31 days.
Patrick Driscoll responded that a claim could be made to the County requesting that a new check be
issued. He noted that 30 days is considered a relative short turn-a-round timeframe, which may create
more paperwork and cost for the County.
In response to Commissioner Goslin's question on page two regarding what is being done to achieve
full recovery of overpayments to municipalities, Ron Banks stated all payments have been received
with the exception of the Village of Deerfield, the Village of Burr Ridge and South Suburban College.
He explained the Office is working with these 3 agencies to recoup the payment, but since each does
not receive a significant amount of traffic revenue it is taking longer for them to repay.
Commissioner Lechowicz requested a letter be sent from the Auditor and the Audit Committee stating
that the timeframe for cashing checks should remain at 90 days instead of 30 days. Chairman Daley
stated he agreed and would have his staff work with the Auditor on preparing the letters.
Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Hansen, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 248518.The motion carried.
2. 249261

SINGLE AUDIT REPORT. Transmitting a Communication, dated, January 22, 2002 from
Thomas J. J. Glaser, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance:
SUBJECT: SINGLE AUDIT REPORT FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING NOVEMBER 30, 2000
Submitting a copy of Cook County’s Single Audit Report for fiscal year ending November
30, 2000, as prepared by Washington, Pittman & McKeever, LLC. I respectfully request
that the report be referred to the Audit Committee for further discussion.
*Referred to the Audit Committee on January 24, 2002

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 25 regarding the proper maintenance of
records for funds received from Federal grants, Vince Garrett stated to date the Office had
implemented the Auditor's recommendation found on page 26 of the report.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's regarding the use of Narcotics and Asset Forfeiture Fund on
real estate or real estate improvements, Jack Kelly stated funds were used on two storage facilities
(one on county property and one on forest preserve property).
Commissioner Hansen asked if Board approval was received for these improvements. Mr. Kelly stated
he would research whether approval was received and provide a written response to the Chairman.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 4

In response to Commissioner Goslin's question regarding the status of the Auditor's recommendation
relating to inventory and reconciliation of the Narcotics and Asset Forfeiture Fund, Jack Kelly stated a
new general ledger accounting system was installed in December 2001 and all financial transactions for
fiscal year 2002 will be recorded in the new accounting system.
Commissioner Lechowicz commented on the importance of knowing for next year’s budget preparation
if any state or federal grant funds will be diminished. He requested an opinion from the County Auditor
on any estimated shortfalls of grant funds, including a recommendation for the Board on what to do in
preparation for such shortfalls and the impact on grant funded programs.
Laura Burman reminded the members that the Board approved an amendment during the 2002 Budget
process calling for any county agency or office seeking new grants to first submit information to the
Board for approval before obtaining new grant dollars.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page 10 regarding negative balances in grant
funds, John Chambers stated that grant programs are continued or renewed prior to the grant funds
being received due to the differences in the county, state, and federal governments fiscal years. He
stated this is only done to allow for the uninterrupted continuance of grant programs where funds are
known to be forthcoming.
Commissioner Hansen recommended in future reports that the Auditors include a simple asterisk and
footnote with an explanation on negative balances.
On the issue raised regarding future shortfalls in state and federal grant funds for county programs,
Chairman Daley agreed with Commissioner Lechowicz's concern and noted the President has directed
the County's Budget Director to make sure all agencies are aware of the new budget amendment
relating to grants and to report to the Administration and Finance Committee on any foreseen shortfalls
in grant funds including any recommended actions to consider in preparation for next year’s budget.
Commissioner Lechowicz, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 249261. The motion carried.
3. 245586

BUREAU OF FINANCE, by Thomas J. Glaser, Chief Financial Officer. Transmitting a
Communication dated, August 9, 2001:
SUBJECT: COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT (CAFR) FOR FISCAL
YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2000
Enclosed is a copy of Cook County’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR)
for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2000 prepared by Arthur Andersen LLP. I am
hereby requesting the opportunity to discuss this report with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Commissioners.
*Referred to the Audit Committee on August 9, 2001

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding how the Forest Preserve District's deficit is
handled since the District's financial statements are combined with the County's in the CAFR, Gary Fink
stated the District's fund balances are shown separate throughout the report and the deficit is disclosed
on page 45 in the footnote which is then rolled up and included in the total aggregate on page 60 as
part of the Special Revenue Fund.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 5

As a point of information, Tom Glaser noted he was informed yesterday that the County's Bond Rating
had been raised from AA3 to AA2.
In response to Commissioner Moran's question regarding the procedure for selecting the outside
auditors, Laura Burman stated that every so often an RFP goes out, and the selection process follows
the statutory and county procedures for selecting bids and entering into contracts with outside vendors.
Ms. Burman noted that contract renewals are worked out with the Chief Financial Officer and submitted
to the Board for approval.
Commissioner Lechowicz, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 245586. The motion carried.
4. 249895

MEMORANDUM ON INTERNAL CONTROL. Transmitting a Communication, dated
February 18, 2002 from Thomas J. Glaser, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance.
Submitting the Memorandum on Internal Control for Cook County, Illinois relating to the
audit for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2000. The accompanying Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2000 was
previously distributed to the Board. I respectfully request that this report be referred to
the Audit Committee for further discussion.
*Referred to the Audit Committee on February 21, 2002

In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page two regarding how much of the amounts
classified as unidentified have been distributed, Kim Feeney stated the Office is in the middle of its
2000 and 2001 audits and once those audits are completed the Office will most likely finish distributing
the remaining money according to the direction of the State's Attorney. She stated the Office
distributed $22.9 million of the original $26.5 million on July 31, 2001 to various taxing bodies; however
she noted approximately $3.7 million is being held back and earmarked to address issues found prior to
1998.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question regarding what is being done to address the issue of
GASB reporting requirements having a negative impact on the County's system of internal control and
its ability to prepare timely and accurate GAAP financial statements, John Chambers stated he
disagreed with the statement that the requirements may threaten the systems and accuracy of county
financial reports. However, he noted the new standards might require the creation of a Financial
Reporting position in the 2003 Budget to ensure compliance with the new GASB reporting
requirements.
Chairman Daley requested a written response from the Chief Financial Officer and Auditor addressing
the new GASB reporting requirements impact on the County's system of internal control and budget.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page four regarding the status of the department
being in compliance with the Cook County’s Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance, Dr. Parmer
stated the department would be in total compliance in a week or two. He explained the department has
initiated with the Bureau of Finance and bank the paperwork necessary to implement the
recommendation and has also begun sending checks to the Comptroller on a regular schedule.
In response to Commissioner Hansen's question on page nine regarding an explanation of the problem,
John Chambers stated the alleged problem dealt with how the County paid contractual employees such

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 6
as court reporters and interpreters. He explained the Bureau of Finance consulted with Deloitte to
review what could be deemed regular employees rather than contracted employees and they provided
an opinion and recommendation on how to proceed. He stated the issue has been remedied by placing
these individuals on the payroll as 130 employees rather than 110 regular employees.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on page 10 regarding the recommendation for making
the implementation of an off-site security system, disaster recovery and business continuity plan a
priority, Cathy Maras-O’Leary stated the issue is being reviewed and has been found to be very
complicated to gather the detailed specifications due to the lack of resources she currently has in her
office. She said she has budgeted monies for an outside consultant that could be dedicated to
researching and coordinating the various county agencies mission-critical system needs, the data
exchange needs of outside users and the overall RFP specification and capital planning for this
initiative. She noted that the county has already invested in uninterruptible power supplies, redundant
hardware, and generators for its main processing center. She also noted that the point-to-point circuits
for the wide area network (WAN) will be replaced by a fiber ring for added disaster recovery.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question regarding what the estimated initial capital outlay
would be and whether other major counties of comparable size had completed an off-site operations
center in case of a disaster, Ms. Maras-O’Leary stated the initial capital outlay is estimated to be
between $12 to $18 million. In terms of a survey of where other major counties are on this issue, she
stated she would begin to inquire and get back to the Committee.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s questions on page 13 regarding if the Sheriff’s Office had
implemented a new general ledger system and complied with the Auditor’s recommendation relating to
the escrow account of forfeited funds, Jack Kelly confirmed that the Office had completed both issues.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s questions on page 18 regarding if the Veterans’ Assistance
Commission had implemented the Auditor’s recommendations relating to monthly reconciliation and the
clarification of authority limits and segregation of duties, Alvin Starks confirmed that the Commission
had completed both recommendations.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on page 19 regarding if the Liquor Control
Commission had implemented the Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance requirements, Laura
Burman stated the Commission does hold balances that exceed the $100,000 FDIC insurance limit for
a short period of time when license fees are being collected (in April and May). She confirmed that the
Deputy Liquor Commissioner, Jack Weinrauch, was in the process of working on the collateralization
factor with the depository bank.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question regarding the status of the Recorder of Deeds Office’s
RFP for a new cashiering system, Ray Wolverton stated the RFP for a new cashiering system was
released on November 17, 2001. He said responses were received in early January, evaluation of the
seven responses received has been done, the scope was narrowed down to a short list of three
companies in early February, and demonstrations of the three companies’ products were provided in
the Office. He stated the Office is prepared to submit to the Board a request for approval on entering
into contract negotiations with the selected company, which should appear on the agenda at the March
7, 2002 meeting.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on when the current UNISYS system was installed
and the estimated cost of a new cashiering system, Ray Wolverton stated the UNISYS system was
installed in October 1997 with acceptance of the product by the Office given in early 1998. Shortly
thereafter implementation problems were found; the company that installed the product was called back

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 7
in for assessment and their findings called for replacement of the system.
system would cost no more than $3 million.

He estimated the new

Commissioner Hansen commented on how upsetting it was to see money spent on a system that within
three years needs replacement. He recommended in the future, RFP specification and review of the
scope of services should be evaluated by not only the Office purchasing the hardware or software
system but also coordinated with the Chief Information Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
On this issue, Cathy Maras-O’Leary stated that she was not involved in the UNISYS system RFP and
implementation but at the request of the Audit Committee, participated first-hand in looking at the scope
of the project and personally assisted on drafting the RFP for a new cashiering system with the
Recorder’s Office.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s request for her opinion on whether an RFP is better than a bid,
Ms. Maras-O’Leary stated yes. She commented on the difficulties of clearly defining the hardware or
software specifications in a bid packet, as well as the limitations placed on the county in making any
changes to the scope to take advantage of new technology through the bid process. In her opinion,
RFPs give the county more options at no cost by allowing input from the vendors through their
proposals to find improved or more innovative technological means to address the systems current
scope, as well as upon review of the proposals, the flexibility to make changes for future needs that
originally the county may not have specified or considered.
As a follow-up, Chairman Daley asked if the county received what was promised in terms of the
previous RFP and contract for services with the UNISYS cashiering system or is there a liability issue
that needs to be addressed. He also inquired on the cost of the UNISYS system. Mr. Wolverton noted
the total cost of the past system was $3.2 million and replacement cost is estimated at less than $3
million. He stated in terms of liability, the Recorder’s Office did bring a warranty issue and question of
vendor liability up with the State’s Attorney’s Office, but was told it would not be cost effective to pursue
the issue.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on page 21 regarding if the State’s Attorney’s Office
had implemented the Auditor’s recommendation to collateralize three accounts to be in compliance with
the Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance, Ray Balcarcel stated the Office is in
compliance with the Ordinance. He noted the recommendation involved three accounts at Bank One,
which the Auditor said totaled more than the $100,000 FDIC insured limit. Since the Audit Report was
issued, the Office confirmed with the bank that these accounts were already included on a larger list of
collateralized deposits.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on page 22 regarding a target date for a county-wide
investment policy, John Chambers stated he was not responding for the Treasurer’s Office on this
particular issue but was aware it is the intention to bring before the Board an amendment to the
Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance to reduce the 110% collateralization to 102%. Responding
on a target date for a county-wide investment policy, Dan Degnan stated the Treasurer’s Office did
implement a formal investment policy on December 1, 1999 in compliance with state statutes. He
noted in terms of a county-wide investment policy, the Treasurer did submit the Office’s formal
investment policy to the County’s Chief Financial Officer and would be happy to discuss it further if the
County wishes to adopt this policy county-wide.
Commissioner Hansen requested information from the County Auditor, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer’s Office covering the recommendation found on page 22 regarding a county-wide investment
policy, which the committee could discuss at its next meeting.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 8
Laura Burman stated the Treasurer implemented an internal office Investment Policy that is in
compliance with the County’s Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance. However, a county-wide
investment policy has not been developed or coordinated with the Treasurer’s Office, which the audit
recommendation states should be considered.
Chairman Daley asked Tom Glaser to meet with the Treasurer’s Office and follow-up on this request
with a written response to the Chairman for further discussion. He asked that the response include the
recommended actions and need for implementing a county-wide investment policy.
Commissioner Lechowicz commented on the current 110% collateralization policy on county-wide
investments of public funds under the Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance Ordinance. He
mentioned the Comptroller’s previously stated comments on the Administration’s intentions to amend
the Ordinance to lower the requirement to 102%. He stated he understands some banks or agencies
may believe the current collateralization is too restrictive, however he stressed the policy was put in
place to not only assure the safety of the county’s investments, but most importantly for the taxpayers
benefit to assure them that all public funds held by the county get the highest return of interest. He
noted the State of Illinois also collateralizes their funds at 110% and feels it is important that the
County’s Ordinance is enforced with no exemptions except with Board approval. He referenced the
current audit report and the agencies that were shown to be in noncompliance with the Ordinance and
asked what was being done to bring all county agencies into compliance.
Chairman Daley recommended a letter be sent to all county agencies reiterating the 110%
collateralization policy on funds along with a copy of the Cook County Taxpayers’ Interest Assurance
Ordinance.
Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to receive and file
Communication No. 249895. The motion carried.
5.

Sheriff’s Court Services Department – Civil Process Division and Administrative &
Support Services Department – Fees and Trust Funds for year ended
November 30, 1999.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on January 28, 2002

In response to Commissioner Lechowicz’s question on page five regarding what were the economic
reasons for not using interest-bearing accounts, Jack Kelly stated the funds were insufficient in these
accounts to cover the monthly service fees of $30 per month charged by Amalgamated Bank.
Commissioner Lechowicz commented that if the monthly service fees exceed the interest generated,
the agencies should seek Board review and approval for an exemption from the Taxpayers’ Interest
Assurance Ordinance.
In response to Commissioner Lechowicz’s question on page six regarding the reason for the significant
increase in the community service fee, Mr. Kelly stated the increase was due to a large increase in the
number of participants in the SWAP community program.
In response to Commissioner Lechowicz’s question on a reason for the significant levy increase, Mr.
Kelly stated he did not know the reason but would look into it and get back to the Committee with an
answer.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 9
In response to Commissioner Lechowicz’s question on whether a general ledger system had been
implemented, Mr. Kelly responded it was installed in December 2001.
Commissioner Lechowicz commented that he noticed several times in the audit a reference to a
Peachtree Software system and asked for some information on this system. Mr. Kelly stated it refers to
the software used in the Sheriff’s general ledger accounting system.
In response to Chairman Daley’s question on page nine regarding if the December 1, 2001 target date
was met, Mr. Kelly stated it was.
Commissioner Hansen, seconded by Commissioner Butler, moved to receive and file Item 5.
The motion carried.
6.

Department of Building and Zoning – Fee Report for year ended November 30, 2000.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on January 28, 2002

In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on page eight regarding if there had been any
discussion to resolve the problem of sending the public to various offices in different buildings simply to
pay for permits or licenses. Commissioner Hansen noted the audit recommendation mentioned the
possibility of setting up a satellite office for the Department of Revenue at the Cook County
Administration Building.
Barb Bruno noted there wasn’t a problem when the Department of Building and Zoning was located in
the same building and stated that most of the fees are paid by mail.
Don Wlodarski stated he did not have any numbers to reflect if this was a big problem, but noted his
department has been meeting with the Bureau of Administration and the Industrial Engineers, and
would reach out to MIS and the Department of Revenue to see if some online payment system might
be feasible to solve this inconvenience to the public.
Chairman Daley commented that this problem of shuffling the public back and forth between county
offices is not just confined to the Department of Building and Zoning. He mentioned his office
encounters individuals frustrated by being sent to and from the various county agencies that service
property records, assessments and tax payments.
Commissioner Lechowicz agreed with the Chairman and suggested the county look into what he
termed a “one-stop-shopping” system using electronic links on the county WAN between the various
offices to provide access to payment options.
Commissioner Hansen, seconded by Commissioner Lechowicz, moved to receive and file Item
6. The motion carried.
7.

Department of Environmental Control – Fee Accounts for year ended
November 30, 2000.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on January 28, 2002

In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on page two regarding what action the department
has taken on amounts owed or overdue as of November 30, 2000, Dr. William Franek stated the

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 10
majority of the fees billed ($204,461.22) for operating permits were received shortly after November 30
by the County. However, for the remaining ($42,866.22) outstanding money owed from prior monthly
billings the department has sent second and final notices out to the businesses. He explained if
payment is not received after four months of nonpayment from the original bill, a court citation is issued
pursuant to the Cook County Environmental Control Ordinance, Article 5.4-1, “Certificate of Operation
Required” and the businesses must appear in court ready to make payment if a judgment is entered.
Commissioner Hansen asked the percentage resolved once a citation is issued. Dr. Franek responded
80% to 90% of nonpayments are resolved after a court citation is issued.
Commissioner Butler, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to receive and file Item No. 7.
The motion carried.
8.

Veterans’ Assistance Commission – Financial Report for year ended
November 30, 1999.
Submitted to the Audit Committee on January 28, 2002

Commissioner Goslin commented on the numerous findings made in the report on bookkeeping
problems or the general lack of proper accounting methods and practices.
In response to Commissioner Goslin’s question on what had been done to date by the Commission to
implement the Auditor’s recommendations, Alvin Stark responded that Superintendent Houlihan had
met with the County Auditor and has implemented all the recommendations.
Commissioner Goslin asked the County Auditor to confirm if all the recommendations contained in this
report had been implemented.
Laura Burman stated she met with Superintendent Houlihan on rectifying the problems found at the
time this report was completed. She said the Veterans’ Assistance Commission has made significant
progress in addressing each recommendation.
Commissioner Hansen, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, moved to receive and file Item No.
8. The motion carried.
1. Old Business - Highway Department: Fee Schedule
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on the status of a previous audit recommendation
regarding the department getting the Board’s authority to collect approximately $15 thousand in
miscellaneous fees annually, Laura Burman stated that the response from the Highway Department
was provided and distributed with the meeting back-up material.
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question on a target date on resolving this issue, Marlene
Dantino stated the Highway Department did a comparison survey of other governmental agencies on
this issue and was in the process of drafting a proposed ordinance with the necessary enabling
authority for the collection of these miscellaneous fees. She gave a target date of April 2002 for
submittal of the proposed ordinance to the Board.

 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
FEBRUARY 27, 2002
PAGE 11

Commissioner Goslin moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Butler. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Audit

____________________________
John P. Daley, Chairman
Attest:

_________________________________
Sandra K. Williams, Secretary

The transcript for this meeting is available in the Office of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

 