Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, November 19, 2014

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at the
date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item
that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
The items that are to be received and filed will not be heard for action. These items are being received and
filed to clean up the remaining items leftover in the committee before the end of the 2010 2014 Term of the
Cook County Board of Commissioners.
14-6119
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of the
regular meeting held on Wednesday, October 8, 2014.
14-6180
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings of the
special meeting held on Thursday, October 9, 2014.

 THE FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE RECEIVED AND FILED:

14-5417
Sponsored by: ROBERT STEELE, EDWIN REYES, County Commissioner JERRY BUTLER, JESÚS G.
GARCÍA, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R.
TOBOLSKI, County Commissioner
310963
AMENDMENT TO THE ETHICS ORDINANCE INTEREST IN COUNTY BUSINESS, CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION, ARTICLE VII, SECTION 2-581 OF THE COOK COUNTY CODE (PROPOSED
SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
Robert B. Steele and Edwin Reyes, County Commissioners; Co-Sponsored by William M. Beavers, Jerry Butler,
John A. Fritchey, Jesus G. Garcia, Joan Patricia Murphy, Deborah Sims, Larry Suffredin and Jeffrey R.
Tobolski, County Commissioners.
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO THE ETHICS ORDINANCE INTEREST IN COUNTY BUSINESS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration, Article VII
Ethics, Section 2-581 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 2-581.

Interest in County business.

(a) No elected official or employee shall have a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of any
other person in any contract, work or business of the County or in the sale of any article, whenever the expense,
price or consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid with funds belonging to or administered by the
County. Compensation for property taken pursuant to the County's eminent domain power shall not constitute a
financial interest within the meaning of this section. Unless sold pursuant to a process of competitive bidding
following public notice, no elected official or employee shall have a financial interest in the purchase of any
property that:
(1)

Belongs to the County;

(2)

Is sold for taxes or assessments; or

(3)

Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the County.

(b)
No appointed official shall engage in a transaction described in Subsection (a) of this section unless the
matter is wholly unrelated to the appointed official's County duties and responsibilities.
(c) Any person who is not a County employee who has a financial interest in his or her own name or in the name of
any other person in any contract, work or business of the County or in the sale of any article, whenever the expense,
price or consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid with funds belonging to or administered by the
County, shall be ineligible from being hired by the County for employment for a period of one year from the
termination of their engagement in the transaction. Compensation for property taken pursuant to the County’s
eminent domain power shall not constitute a financial interest within the meaning of this section.

Page 2 of 7

 (cd) For purposes of this section, the term "financial interest" shall not include the interest of the spouse of an
official or employee which interest is related to the independent occupation, profession or employment of the
spouse.
Effective Date: This Ordinance Amendment shall be in effect immediately upon adoption on June 1, 2011.
Legislative History:
Legislative History:
Legislative History:

2/1/11 Board of Commissioners referred to the Rules and Administration Committee
2/28/11 Rules and Administration Committee recommended for deferral
3/1/11 Board of Commissioners deferred

14-5418
Sponsored by: ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
310977
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A PROHIBITION ON THE HIRING OF ANY PERSON WHO
RECEIVES PUBLICLY FUNDED PENSION PAYMENTS IN EXCESS OF $39,999 PER YEAR
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting a Proposed Ordinance sponsored by Elizabeth “Liz” Doody Gorman,
County Commissioner.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A PROHIBITION ON THE HIRING OF ANY PERSON WHO
RECEIVES PUBLICLY FUNDED PENSION PAYMENTSIN EXCESS OF $39,999 PER YEAR
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 44 Human Resources, Section
44-57 of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 44-57. Prohibition on employment.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 44-53 of the Cook County Code with regards to “source of
income”, no person shall be employed by the County of Cook who is a current retiree of another unit of
government and receiving publicly funded pension payments in excess of $39,999 per year. The provisions of this
section apply to retirees of all of the following governmental agencies:
(1) United States Federal Government;
(2) Any State or territory of the United States;
(3) Any political sub-division of any State or territory of the United States.
(b) For the purposes of the provisions of this section, employment shall not be construed to include
any elected official of Cook County Government.
(c) This Ordinance shall be retroactive to January 1, 2010. Any person falling within the scope of
subsection (a) of this section who was hired as of January 1, 2010 shall be terminated upon passage of this
ordinance.
Effective date: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 3 of 7

 Legislative History: 2/1/11 Board of Commissioners referred to the Rules and Administration Committee
Legislative History: 2/28/11 Rules and Administration Committee recommended for deferral
Legislative History: 3/1/11 Board of Commissioners deferred

14-5419
Sponsored by: WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, County Commissioner
310979
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM
(PROPOSED ORDINANCE). Submitting Proposed Ordinance by William M. Beavers, County Commissioner.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM
BE IT ORDAINED, Pursuant to Cook County's home rule authority under Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970
Constitution of the State of Illinois, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners (“County Board”) that Chapter
44, Human Resources, Article V, Section 44-140 through 44-145 are hereby inserted into a newly created Article
V, entitled the “Cook County Affirmative Action Program” and are thereafter amended and renumbered as follows:
ARTICLE V. COOK COUNTY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM.
44-140.

DECLARATION OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the County of Cook (the “County”) to provide equal employment opportunities to all
qualified persons without regard to their race, religion, color, age, disability, sex, national origin, sexual orientation,
marital status, membership in the military reserves, creed, ancestry, arrest or conviction record, or use or nonuse
of lawful products away from work. In adhering to this policy, the County complies with the Illinois Human
Rights Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
and other applicable statutes and regulations relating to equal employment opportunities. This policy represents
the County’s commitment to a nondiscriminatory work environment for all qualified applicants and employees.
The County is an employer that values the diversity of its employees and as such seeks to achieve the goal of
hiring and maintaining an overall County workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled in every
County bureau including the following elected officials or otherwise (as hereinafter defined): the Assessor, the
Clerk of the Circuit Court, the County Clerk, the Board of Review, the Recorder of Deeds, the Sheriff, the State’s
Attorney, the Public Defender, the Cook County Health and Hospitals System and the Treasurer.
44-141.

DEFINITIONS.
In this Article V entitled “Cook County Affirmative Action Program” --

a. “Affirmative action” means, in employment, the screening of position descriptions and selection
criteria to ensure the use of appropriate, job-related requirements; comprehensive and inclusive advertising and
recruiting efforts; special or targeted recruiting in addition to traditional methods; training plans and programs,
including on-the-job training; and gender-neutral and culturally bias-free criteria to be used when making
employment decisions relating to recruitment, hiring, performance evaluation, promotion, transfers, training
opportunities, compensation and other terms and conditions of employment and termination.

Page 4 of 7

 b. “Diversity” means, in addition to differences based on ethnicity, gender, age, religion, disability,
national origin and sexual orientation, an infinite range of individuals’ unique characteristics and experiences,
such as communication styles, career, work, life experience, educational backgrounds and other variables.
Diversity focuses on tapping the talents of people of different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives as a
means of improving the workplace environment and productivity. Diversity awareness works to create an
environment that recognizes values and utilizes the unique skills and abilities of all employees. The goal of
diversity awareness is to create an inclusive, respectful and equitable work environment.
c. “Equal employment opportunity” means the equal and fair treatment of all qualified applicants and
employees with regard to county employment practices, including, but not limited to, recruitment, selection, hiring,
training, promotion, compensation, benefits, transfers, discipline, terms and conditions of employment, and
layoffs.
d. “Elected Officials or Elected Offices” means the Assessor, the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the County
Clerk, the Board of Review, the Recorder of Deeds, the Sheriff, the State’s Attorney, the Public Defender, the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System and the Treasurer.
e. “Minority” means any person who is one of the following:
(1) African-American or Black (persons with origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa);
(2) Hispanic American (persons of Spanish culture with origins from Puerto Rico, Mexico, Cuba, South
or Central America, Spain, Portugal, or the Caribbean Islands regardless of race);
(3) Native American (American Indian);
(4) Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Japan, China, the Philippines, Vietnam, Korea,
Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific, Northern Marianas, Laos, Cambodia, Taiwan, or the
Indian subcontinent) or
(5) Any other ethnically or racially identifiable group found by the Contract Compliance Administrator to
have suffered actual racial or ethnic discrimination resulting in a competitive disadvantage or decreased
opportunities to do business with the County.
f. “Disabled” means that same meaning found under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
as amended.
44-142.

OFFICE OF DIVERSITY AND OUTREACH OFFICE.

There is established an Office of Diversity and Outreach that shall be budgeted as a department under the
Bureau of Human Resources and shall maintain at least five (5) full time equivalents (“FTE”) for the purpose of
promoting the importance, benefit and necessity of maintaining diversity within the County’s workforce and
ensuring compliance with applicable policies, ordinances, statutes, laws and executive orders. With the express
goal of achieving an overall County workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled, this Office shall
have the following authority and duties pertinent thereto, including but not limited to:
a. Reviewing and assisting the development of diversity, equal employment opportunity, affirmative
action plans of the various County bureaus and Elected Officials to ensure that each plan is consistent with the
overall County plan.

Page 5 of 7

 b. Maintaining and reporting to the County Board on a quarterly basis statistics, which include, but are
not limited to, the proportion of underrepresented group members at all levels and job classifications in the County’s
workforce and the availability of qualified underrepresented group members in the labor force of the relevant
labor areas. The statistics shall indicate how each group has been affected by new hires, training opportunities,
promotions, discipline and terminations.
c. Counseling employees, managers and others about diversity, equal employment opportunity and
affirmative action issues in the workplace.
d. Facilitating diversity related training programs and workplace mediation.
e. Receiving and investigating complaints of discriminatory employment practices, workplace violence,
or of harassment in the workplace from County employees. If an investigation discloses a violation has occurred,
the Diversity and Outreach Officer as defined in Section 44-143 of this Ordinance shall work with bureau chiefs,
department heads, managers and Elected Officials to implement corrective action and resolve the situation.
f. Receiving and filing investigating complaints with the County’s Inspector General regarding any
employee or applicant who believes that he or she has been discriminated against by the County.
g. Identifying and maintaining comprehensive and effective recruitment methods that promote a diverse
workforce.
h. Monitoring results of all training, with emphasis on minority, female and disabled recruits.
i. Participating in performance examinations, job fairs, and recruitment activities at high schools,
universities, law schools, chambers of commerce and other locations.
j. Reviewing all State of Illinois and federal laws, rules and regulations concerning equal
employment opportunities to ensure compliance.
k. Direct participation in the hiring, termination and promotion of each employee of the County
including employees of each Elected Official to determine whether such hiring, termination or promotion is
promoting this Ordinance’s goal of achieving an overall County workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and
5% disabled.
44-143.

DIVERSITY AND OUTREACH OFFICER.

The President of the Cook County Board with the advice and consent of a majority of the County Board
shall appoint the Diversity and Outreach Officer to a term of six (6) years. The Diversity and Outreach Officer
may be removed by a majority vote of the County Board. The Diversity and Outreach Officer shall manage the
day-to-day operations of the Office of Diversity and Outreach; perform complaint intake functions; investigate
complaints; serve as the County’s Americans with Disabilities Act coordinator; directly participate in the hiring,
termination and promotion of each employee of the County including employees of each Elected Official;
ensure compliance with applicable ordinances, statutes, laws and executive orders; have responsibility and
authority for the development and implementation of a comprehensive diversity, equal employment opportunity
and affirmative action plan for the County; and function as the liaison between the County and the media and
the community.

Page 6 of 7

 44-144.

DEPARTMENT DIVERSITY, EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AND

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLANS.
Beginning thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Ordinance, each County bureau and each
Elected Official shall submit and present to the County Board and the Diversity and Outreach Officer its present
racial, gender and disabled employment make-up and its diversity, equal employment opportunity and
affirmative action plan to achieve in their bureau or elected offices a workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman
and 5% disabled. Thereafter, each County bureau and each Elected Official shall submit and present every year
to the County Board and the Diversity and Outreach Officer its racial, gender and disabled make-up for that
fiscal year and its diversity, equal employment opportunity and affirmative action plan to achieve in their bureau
or Elected Offices a workforce of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled.
44-145.

IMPLEMENTATION.

a. Recruitment. In collaboration with the Diversity and Outreach Officer, the Director of Human
Resources and all Elected Officials shall practice comprehensive and inclusive advertising and recruiting efforts,
which may include special recruiting targeting previously underrepresented groups in addition to traditional
recruiting methods, and report such recruitment findings to the County Board every year.
b. Training. In collaboration with the Diversity and Outreach Officer, the Director of Human
Resources and all Elected Officials shall develop training plans and programs, including on-the-job training,
designed to develop the knowledge, skills and abilities essential for developing each employee’s fullest
potential. The Diversity and Outreach Officer shall develop and provide relevant training to each County
bureau and Elected Officials to increase employees’ knowledge and awareness of laws and regulations, as well
as the County’s policies relating to diversity, equal employment opportunity, affirmative action and respecting
diversity in the workplace. The Director of Human Resources and each Elected Official shall report their
training findings to the County Board each year.
c. Testing, Selection, Placement and Promotion. The Diversity and Outreach Officer shall review
the County testing, selection, placement and promotion polices of each bureau and each Elected Official to
ensure that they comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to the goal achieving a workforce
consisting of 50% minority, 25% woman and 5% disabled.
Legislative History: 2/1/11 Board of Commissioners referred to the Rules and Administration Committee
Legislative History: 2/28/11 Rules and Administration Committee recommended for deferral
Legislative History: 3/1/11 Board of Commissioners deferred

_________________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Gorman
Daley, Fritchey, Gainer, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele

Page 7 of 7

 