COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF
COOK COUNTY
And Ex-Officio for the
FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND
MEETING OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
33 N. DEARBORN STREET – SUITE 1000
Minutes for October 25, 2011 Meeting of the Investment Committee

1.

Call to Order and Roll Call at 12:30 p.m.
IC Members Present:
Staff Present:
Others Present:

Invited Presenters:

2.

Mr. Robert Benjamin, Mr. John Fitzgerald, Mr. Patrick
McFadden, Mr. Robert Janura and Mr. Takashi Reinbold
D. Degnan, N. Hackett, M. Maratea, F. Vinzons, and D.
Walker
M.P. Burns – Burke, Burns & Pinelli, K. Dolsen, M.
Joecken, S. Haskins, K. Brunke – Callan, T. Picketts –
Cabrera, S. Piet - Podesta, A. Myers – Loop Capital
B. Parise, A. Pfeiffer, A. Cole – J.P. Morgan, K. Smith, C.
Marcus, L. Teitelbaum – PRISA, K. Crean, R. Lanier –
UBS, R. Felice, M. Collins, M. Thames – Prudential, R.
Raczkowski, W. Averill – Loomis Sayles, T. Hernandez, S.
Buckley – MacKay Shields

Approval of September 27, 2011 Investment Committee Meeting Minutes;
Motion for Approval and Adoption of Minutes. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald
and seconded by Trustee Janura that the minutes of the September 27, 2011
Investment Committee meeting be approved and adopted.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

3.

Manager Updates;
Due to organizational events and performance updates, Optimum was presented to the
Investment Committee for further clarification. Based on this review, the Investment
Committee affirmed the recommendation that Optimum would not be retained and a
search would be conducted for a new manager as previously approved in the
Structure Implementation Plan.
Motion to not retain Optimum. It was moved by Trustee Benjamin and seconded by
Trustee Janura to recommend to the Board not to retain Optimum Investment
Advisors for their Large Cap Growth mandate valued at approximately $150 million.
It is further moved that the Fund Investment Staff and Executive Director be
authorized to take all actions reasonably necessary to effect the foregoing.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:

Benjamin, McFadden, Janura and Reinbold
1

 NAYS:
PRESENT:
Vote Result:

None
Fitzgerald
MOTION ADOPTED

As part of the Structure Implementation Plan, the NCM Capital Management Large
Cap Core equity portfolio was presented for review based on organization events and
performance. The Investment Committee affirmed the recommendations as presented
and elected to reallocate the funds to Rhumbline’s S&P 500 portfolio.
Motion to reallocate the NCM Large Cap Core Mandate. It was moved by Trustee
Janura and seconded by Trustee Reinbold to recommend to the Board not to retain
NCM Capital Management for their Large Cap Core mandate. It is further moved
that the Board approve to transfer these assets of approximately $50 million to
Rhumbline’s S&P 500 portfolio and that Fund Investment Staff and Executive
Director be authorized to take all actions reasonably necessary to effect the foregoing.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
Vote Result:
4.

Benjamin, Fitzgerald, McFadden, Janura and Reinbold
None
MOTION ADOPTED

Core Open Real Estate Fund Search;
Upon the conclusion of the core real estate search, three finalists were invited to
present to the Investment Committee. J.P. Morgan, Prudential and UBS presented the
strategy, capabilities and performance of their firms’ Core Open End Real Estate
portfolios. The Committee listened to the evaluations and due diligence findings
regarding each candidate and recommended the selection of J.P. Morgan (for both
Cook and Forest) and Prudential (for Cook only).
Motion to Select J.P. Morgan and Prudential. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald
and seconded by Trustee Reinbold to recommend to the Board to select J.P. Morgan’s
Select Property Fund and Prudential’s PRISA for a $75 million mandate each for the
Cook County Fund funded from the current fund structure implementation subject to
satisfactory completion of final due diligence and successful contract negotiations. It
is also recommended to approve J.P. Morgan’s Select Property Fund for a $3 million
mandate for the Forest Preserve District Fund funded from the current fund structure
implementation subject to satisfactory completion of final due diligence and
successful contract negotiations. It is further moved that the Fund Investment Staff
and Executive Director be authorized to take all actions reasonably necessary to effect
the foregoing.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
Vote Result:

Benjamin, Fitzgerald, McFadden, Janura and Reinbold
None
MOTION ADOPTED

2

 5.

Core Plus Fixed Income Search;
Upon completion of their core plus fixed income search, finalists were invited to
present to the Investment Committee. Loomis Sayles, Prudential and MacKay
Shields presented capabilities and performance of their firms’ core plus fixed income
portfolios.
A subsequent discussion about selection factors was then held
immediately after the presentations including summary evaluations of each of the
candidates. The Investment Committee recommended the selection of MacKay
Shields based on the selection factors of strategy, performance and complementary
characteristics of their portfolio.
The Investment Committee also reviewed the core plus portfolio and the status of its
legacy managers and directed the Investment Consultant to conduct their due
diligence and present a final structure recommendation. The remaining finalists
would remain in consideration until final structure recommendations are presented.
Motion to Select MacKay Shields. It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded
by Trustee Janura to recommend to the Board to approve the recommendation by the
Investment Committee to select MacKay Shields for an approximate $300 million
mandate for the Cook County Fund funded from the current fund structure
implementation subject to satisfactory completion of final due diligence and
successful contract negotiations. It is further moved that the Fund Investment Staff
and Executive Director be authorized to take all actions reasonably necessary to effect
the foregoing.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:
Vote Result:

6.

Benjamin, Fitzgerald, McFadden, Janura and Reinbold
None
MOTION ADOPTED

Adjournment.
It was moved by Trustee Janura and seconded by Trustee Fitzgerald that the meeting
be adjourned.
Vote Result: MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

3

 