REPORT OF THE COMIVIITTEE ON LEGISLATION
AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS

November 14, 2012

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Present:

Absent:

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Suffredin, Commissioners Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Reyes,
Schneider and Silvestri (9)

Vice Chairman Fritchey, Commissioners Beavers, Butler, Collins, Gainer, Sims, Steele and
Tobolski (8)

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County met pursuant to notice on Wednesday, November 14, 2012 at the hour of 9:15 A.M. in the
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following item and, upon adoption of this report, the
recommendation is as follows:

320600

SUPPORTING THE REPORTING OF LOST OR STOLEN FIREARMS (PROPOSED
RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Larry Suffredin, John P.
Daley and Edwin Reyes, County Commissioners.

SUPPORTING THE REPORTING OF LOST OR STOLEN FIREARMS

WHEREAS, gun Violence is a public health epidemic that touches the lives of ALL
Americans, and every year thousands of families, friends, schools and communities are
devastated by gun violence; and

WHEREAS, according to the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, 1,064
people died from gun injuries in Illinois in 2010, the most recent year for which statistics
are available; and

WHEREAS, federal law 18 U.S.C. 923 requires licensed ?rearms dealers, but not
?rearms owners, to report the loss or theft of ?rearms to law enforcement Within 48 hours;
and

WHEREAS, laws requiring the reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms are bene?cial to law
enforcement because: (1) when a crime gun is traced by law enforcement to the last
purchaser of record, that person may falsely claim that the gun was lost or stolen to hide his
or her involvement in the crime or in gun traf?cking; and (2) reporting laws provide a tool
for law enforcement to detect this behavior and charge criminals who engage in it; and

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 14, 2012

PAGE 2

WHEREAS, a December 2008 report by Mayors Against Illegal Guns entitled he
Movement of Illegal Guns in America: The Link between Gun Laws and Interstate Gun
ra?icking? concluded that lost or stolen ?rearm reporting laws ?can help law enforcement
more easily identify and prosecute gun and

WHEREAS, a September 2010 report by Mayors Against Illegal Guns entitled race the
Gus: The Link Between Gun Laws and Interstate Gun presented data showing
that states that do not require gun owners to report lost or stolen guns to police are the
source of guns used in crimes that are recovered in other states at a rate more than two and a
half times greater that states that have lost or stolen rep01ting laws; and

WHEREAS, reporting laws help disarm persons prohibited from possessing ?rearms.
When a person who legally owned a gun falls into a prohibited category, it is crucial for law
enforcement to be able to remove the ?rearm from his or her possession. For example, a gun
owner who is convicted of a felony or who becomes the subject of a domestic violence
restraining order is not permitted under federal law to continue to possess ?rearms.
However, when ordered to surrender a ?rearm by law enforcement or a judge, the owner
may falsely claim it has been lost or stolen; and

WHEREAS, reporting laws protect gun owners from unwarranted criminal accusations
when their guns are recovered at a crime scene, and make it easier for law enforcement to
locate a lost or stolen ?rearm and return it to its lawful owner. A 2007 report, the
International Association of Chiefs of Police concluded that, ?law enforcement?s early
awareness of every lost and stolen gun will enhance their ability to recover those guns and
reduce gun violence? and recommended that state and local governments mandate reporting
of lost or stolen ?rearms; and

WHEREAS, according to a 2000 report from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco Firearms
entitled ?Following the Gun: Enforcing Federal Laws Against Firearms Traf?ckers,? at
least 500,000 ?rearms are stolen each year from residences across the United States; and

WHEREAS, the extreme danger ?rearms pose to public safety requires a heightened level
of accountability on the part of individuals who choose to own ?rearms; and

WHEREAS, laws requiring the reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms have been adopted in
jurisdictions throughout the country. Firearm owners are currently required to report lost or
stolen ?rearms in seven states and the District of Columbia, and in a number of local
jurisdictions in Califomia and as well as in certain other major cities,
including Chicago, Illinois; Hartford, Connecticut; and New York, New York; and

WHEREAS, the American public overwhelmingly supports laws requiring the reporting of
lost or stolen ?rearms. A 2011 survey by American Viewpoint/Momentum Analysis of
public attitudes toward gun violence prevention measures found almost unanimous support
for these laws: 94% of all people surveyed, including 94% of gun owners polled, favored
reporting laws; and

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 14, 2012
PAGE3

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County urge the Illinois General Assembly to require ?rearm owners to report to law
enforcement if a ?rearm they own or possess is lost or stolen; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
believes that requiring the reporting of lost or stolen guns will help improve public safety by
deterring gun traf?cking, improving gun crime investigations, protecting gun owners from
unwarranted accusations, and enabling law enforcement to disarm ineligible gun owners and
return lost or stolen ?rearms to their owners.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does
hereby urge the Illinois General Assembly to improve state laws that make gun owners
accountable for their ?rearms and require them to act responsibly; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County urges
the Illinois General Assembly to enact a law making it unlawful for a person who resides in
Illinois to fail to report to law enforcement the theft or loss of a ?rearm he or she owns or
possesses within forty-eight (48) hours of the time he or she knew or reasonably should
have known that the ?rearm had been stolen or lost.

*Referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee on 11/01/12.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved to Accept the Substitute to
Communication No. 320600. The motion carried.

SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION TO COMMUNICATION NO. 320600

Sponsored by

LARRY SUFFREDIN, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER AND EDWIN REYES,
COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Supporting the Reporting of Lost or Stolen Firearms

WHEREAS, gun violence is a public health epidemic that touches the lives of ALL Americans,
and every year thousands of families, friends, schools and communities are devastated by gun
violence; and

WHEREAS, according to the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, 1,064 people
died from gun injuries in Illinois in 2010, the most recent year for which statistics are available;
and

WHEREAS, federal law 18 U.S.C. 923 requires licensed ?rearms dealers, but not
?rearms owners, to report the loss or theft of ?rearms to law enforcement within 48 hours; and

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 14, 2012
PAGE 4

WHEREAS, laws requiring the reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms are bene?cial to law
enforcement because: (1) when a crime gun is traced by law enforcement to the last purchaser of
record, that person may falsely claim that the gun was lost or stolen to hide his or her
involvement in the crime or in gun traf?cking; and (2) reporting law-s provide a tool for law
enforcement to detect this behavior and charge criminals who engage in it; and

WHEREAS, Cook County States Attorney Anita Alvarez has long supported legislation to
require the reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms to law enforcement; and

WHEREAS, Cook County States Attorney Anita Alvarez encouraged Illinois State
Representatives Edward Acevedo, Eddie Winters, Maria Antonia Berrios and Luis Arroyo to
introduce House Bill 1855, which requires the reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms to law
enforcement; and

WHEREAS, a December 2008 report by Mayors Against Illegal Guns entitled ?The Movement
of Illegal Guns in America: The Link between Gun Laws and Interstate Gun ra?icking?
concluded that lost or stolen ?rearm reporting laws ?can help law enforcement more easily
identify and prosecute gun traf?ckers;? and

WHEREAS, a September 2010 rep01t by Mayors Against Illegal Guns entitled ?Trace the Gus:
The Link Between Gun Laws and Interstate Gun Tra?icking, presented data showing that states
that do not require gun owners to report lost or stolen guns to police are the source of guns used
in crimes that are recovered in other states at a rate more than two and a half times greater that
states that have lost or stolen reporting laws; and

WHEREAS, reporting laws help disarm persons prohibited from possessing ?rearms. When a
person who legally owned a gun falls into a prohibited category, it is crucial for law enforcement
to be able to remove the ?rearm from his or her possession. For example, a gun owner who is
convicted of a felony or who becomes the subject of a domestic violence restraining order is not
permitted under federal law to continue to possess ?rearms. However, when ordered to surrender
a ?rearm by law enforcement or a judge, the owner may falsely claim it has been lost or stolen;
and

WHEREAS, reporting laws protect gun owners from unwarranted criminal accusations when
their guns are recovered at a crime scene, and make it easier for law enforcement to locate a lost
or stolen ?rearm and return it to its lawful owner. A 2007 report, the International Association of
Chiefs of Police concluded that, ?law enforcement?s early awareness of every lost and stolen gun
will enhance their ability to recover those guns and reduce gun Violence? and recommended that
state and local governments mandate reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms; and

WHEREAS, according to a 2000 report from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco Firearms
entitled ?Following the Gun: Enforcing Federal Laws Against Firearms Traf?ckers,? at least
500,000 ?rearms are stolen each year from residences across the United States; and

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 14, 2012
PAGES

WHEREAS, the extreme danger ?rearms pose to public safety requires a heightened level of
accountability on the part of individuals who choose to own ?rearms; and

WHEREAS, laws requiring the reporting of lost or stolen ?rearms have been adopted in
jurisdictions throughout the country. Firearm owners are currently required to report lost or
stolen ?rearms in seven states and the District of Columbia, and in a number of local
jurisdictions in California and as well as in certain other major cities, including
Chicago, Illinois; Hartford, Connecticut; and New York, New York; and

WHEREAS, the American public overwhelmingly supports laws requiring the reporting of lost
or stolen firearms. A 2011 survey by American Viewpoint/Momentum Analysis of public
attitudes toward gun violence prevention measures found almost unanimous support for these
laws: 94% of all people surveyed, including 94% of gun owners polled, favored reporting laws;
and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County
urge the Illinois General Assembly to require ?rearm owners to report to law enforcement if a
firearm they own or possess is lost or stolen; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County believes that
requiring the reporting of lost or stolen guns will help improve public safety by deterring gun
trafficking, improving gun crime investigations, protecting gun owners from unwarranted
accusations, and enabling law enforcement to disarm ineligible gun owners and return lost or
stolen ?rearms to their owners; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County does hereby
urge the Illinois General Assembly to improve state laws that make gun owners accountable for
their ?rearms and require them to act responsibly by passing House Bill 1855 or a similar bill;
and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County urges the
Illinois General Assembly to enact a law making it unlawful for a person who resides in Illinois
to fail to report to law enforcement the theft or loss of a ?rearm he or she owns or possesses
within forty-eight (48) hours of the time he or she knew or reasonably should have known that
the ?rearm had been stolen or lost.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved the Approval of Communication
No. 320600 as Substituted. The motion carried.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Garcia, moved to Amend the Substitute to
Communication No. 320600, replacing ?48 hours? with ?72 hours? in the last paragraph. The
motion carried.

Chairman Suffredin stated that the Substitute as Amended to Communication No. 320600 will be mailed
to each individual member of the Illinois Legislature.

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
NOVEMBER 14, 2012
PAGE6

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. Colleen Daley Executive Director, Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence

Commissioner Daley moved to Adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 320600 Approved Substitute as Amended

Respectfully submitted,

Committee on Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations

-


. Vii-wt- '1
Larry Suffredin,lCllai1'iuan 

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretaiy

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on
the Video Page at 
board?video-and-audig/

