Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Business and Economic Development Committee

Tuesday, April 12, 2016

8:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-2563
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/23/2016

16-2150
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
JOLEN ELECTRIC COMPANY CLASS 8 PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 8 application containing the following information:

Page 1 of 8

 Applicant: Jolen Electric Company
Address: 3259 Holeman Avenue, South Chicago Heights, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Bloom Township
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: 32-33-103-109-0000 and 32-33-103-110-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Village of South Chicago Heights Resolution Number 2014-R-9
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: One (1) month vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: one (1) - two (2) full-time jobs
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: Eight (8) full-time jobs
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Same as above
Estimated Number of construction jobs: Five (5)-10 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: warehousing and distribution of electrical parts and servicing
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classification 8
that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as buildings and
other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months, have been purchased
for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that justify
finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 8; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser in whom
the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the
property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase
for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 8 is necessary for development to occur on this specific real estate.
The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of abandoned with special
circumstances; and
WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying commercial real
estate eligible for the Class 8 can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that new
construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of substantial

Page 2 of 8

 re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 8 will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the
11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook,
that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed abandoned with
special circumstances under the Class 8; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified
copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Board of Commissionersreferred to the Business and Economic Development
Committee

16-2205
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President and LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
LITTLE BEANS CAFÉ CLASS 7A PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 7A application containing the following information:
Applicant: Little Beans Café
Address: 430 Asbury, Evanston, Illinois
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Evanston
Cook County District: 13
Permanent Index Number: 10-25-206-007-0000; 10-25-206-008-0000 and 10-25-203-011-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: Resolution No. 64-R-14 approved 9/14/2014, 2014 and Resolution No. 80-R-15
approved 8/17/2015
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: Seven (7) years vacant
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Confirmation supporting that all five (5) eligibility factors have been met: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: Four (4) full-time, 19 part-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: None
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: Two (2) full-time, eight (8) part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: Eight (8) - 14 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Commercial
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Not applicable

Page 3 of 8

 WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment Classification
7A that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as buildings and
other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous months, there has been no
purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that justify
finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 7A ; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of over 24 months and no purchase for value by a disinterested buyer, the
County may determine that special circumstances justify finding the property as being deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 7A requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as abandoned for the
purpose of Class 7A; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 7A is necessary for development to occur on this specific real estate.
The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of abandoned with special
circumstances; and
WHEREAS, commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying commercial real
estate eligible for the Class 7A can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the date that new
construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property from the date of substantial
re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 7A will be assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for
the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the County of Cook,
that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is deemed abandoned with
special circumstances under the Class 7A; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified
copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Business and Economic Development
Committee

16-2290
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, DEBORAH SIMS and STANLEY
MOORE, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING THE COOK COUNTY COMMISSION ON SOCIAL INNOVATION FOR JOB
CREATION, WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT, ENTREPRENEURSHIP, COMMUNITY
REVITALIZATION, AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.
WHEREAS, the municipalities throughout Cook County, including inner-city Chicago and those comprising the
Chicago Southland, are facing high unemployment and other economic challenges; and
WHEREAS, high levels of economic distress in the aforementioned areas have been reported in the Distressed
Community Index from Washington D.C. based, Economic Innovation Group, that shows high levels of inequality;
and

Page 4 of 8

 WHEREAS, people throughout Cook County are urgently seeking knowledge-based, innovation-driven solutions
to social problems relating to education, health care, unemployment, and poverty.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 14
Community Development, Article IX, sections 14-89 through 14-97 of the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted
as follows:
Sec. 14-89. Short title
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Commission
on Social Innovation.”
Sec. 14-90. Declaration
The County Board hereby establishes the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
Sec. 14-91. Definitions
The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where otherwise
specifically indicated:
Board of Commissioners or County Board means the Board of Commissioners for Cook County, Illinois.
Commission means the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation created by this ordinance.
Chairperson means the chairperson of the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
County means Cook County, Illinois.
Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
Inner City means any area within a municipality’s boundaries that is facing economic challenges.
Members means members of the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
Ordinance means this ordinance creating the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
Social Innovation means (a) novel solutions to social problems which are more effective, efficient,
sustainable, or just compared to current solutions, for which the value created accrues primarily to society rather
than to private individuals, and (b) ideas that promote public, private, and philanthropic collaboration in order to
create positive effects on areas with economic challenges.
Southland includes, but is not limited to the south-side of Chicago, the South incorporated municipalities
of Suburban Cook County, and the unincorporated areas of South Suburban Cook County.
Sec. 14-92. Purpose
The purpose of this ordinance is to create the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation, which
shall engage in the following activities:
(a)The commission shall make actionable policy recommendations to help achieve the following
purposes:

Page 5 of 8

 (1)

To strengthen the capacity of the Southland and, generally, of the County to work cooperatively
with relevant stakeholders to create, scale, and sustain innovative social programs;

(2)

To build the capacity of nonprofit organizations and government to pursue entrepreneurial ventures
in the Southland and in the County; and

(3)

To attract investment and philanthropic funding to the Southland and to the County to support these
ventures.

(b)The commission shall advise the County Board and the heads of the County’s agencies and
departments.
(c)The commission shall gather empirical information on social innovation, social entrepreneurship, and
social enterprise.
(d)The commission shall receive and consider reports and testimony from individuals, government
departments, community-based organizations, nonprofit organizations, foundations, and other public and private
organizations (whether or not based in the County) about how social innovation and entrepreneurship can
accelerate progress on social issues, work cross-sector, and advance social and economic development goals.
(e)The commission shall identify promising strategies that have been used in other communities, counties,
states and countries to encourage cross-sector collaboration on social issues.
(f)The commission shall identify useful strategies to educate and train citizens, nonprofit organizations,
governments, students, and businesses on entrepreneurial concepts specifically as applied in the social sector.
(g)The commission shall serve as (1) a resource for the County’s agencies and departments in common
cause to promote the Southland’s and the County’s data-driven social innovation ecosystem in collaboration with
other relevant actors; and (2) the County’s social innovation laboratory, convening a broad and diverse array of
interests and expertise within and across sectors to facilitate cooperation and the co-creation of innovative
solutions to social problems.
Sec. 14-93. Compliance with law
As a body empowered by the Cook County Board, the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation
shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, rules, regulations and orders.
Sec. 14-94. Chairperson and committee membership
The Cook County Commission on Social Innovation shall consist of the following persons who shall serve
as commissioners each of whom shall reside within the corporate boundaries of Cook County and shall serve
without compensation, but may be reimbursed by the County for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance
of commission duties:
(a)The Chair of the County Board’s Business and Economic Development Committee, who shall serve as
the commission’s Chairperson.
(b)A Vice Chairperson designated by the Chairperson who shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the commission.
(c)The Executive Director of the South Suburban Mayors and Managers Association or his or her designee.
(d)The Bureau Chief of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development or his or her designee.

Page 6 of 8

 (e)The Chair of the Cook County Economic Development Advisory Committee or his or her designee.
(f)The Superintendent of the Cook County Department of Transportation and Highways or his or her
designee.
(g)A mayor or manager of a municipality in the Southland, to be designated by the Chairperson as a member
of the commission.
(h)Up to twenty (20) other persons appointed by the Chairperson who shall represent the diversity of the
County and reflect the various disciplines necessary or desirable to ensure the commission’s success.
Sec. 14-95. Term of office; vacancies
(a)The term of each commissioner designated under subsections 14-94(a) through (h) shall coincide with
his or her term of public office if such commissioner is the officeholder, or with the term of public office of the
designating officeholder if such commissioner is the designee.
(b)Vacancies on the commission shall be filled in the same manner that original appointments are made
and shall be filled for the unexpired term of the commissioner whose place has become vacant.
Sec. 14-96. Quorum requirement
A quorum, being a majority of the commissioners then in office, shall be necessary in order to conduct all
hearings of the Cook County Commission on Social Innovation.
Sec. 14-97. Operations
(a)The commission shall meet at least once per month.
(b)The commissioners, under the direction of the Chairperson, shall organize themselves into committees
and subcommittees, which may be permanent or ad hoc. Committees and subcommittees may include, as non-voting
members, members of the public and relevant subject matter experts who are not commissioners.
(c)The Chairperson of the commission shall appoint the chairperson of each committee.
(d)The chairperson of each committee shall appoint the chairperson of each subcommittee within the
jurisdiction of that committee.
(e)Meetings of each committee or subcommittee shall be held at intervals determined by the chairperson of
the respective committee or subcommittee.
(f)The commission may receive donations of money, labor, services, or other things of value from any
public or private agency or person.
(g)The commission shall respond to assignments from County agencies and County departments in a timely
fashion and shall submit reports to the County Board at least annually. Such reports shall address the plans, actions,
and resources needed to achieve the commission’s purposes.
(h)The commission shall serve as a research organization for the County Board regarding social issues,
incubating proposed solutions to social problems, and advancing them for further consideration and, upon approval,

Page 7 of 8

 for implementation. The goals of such collaboration shall include cooperation in prototyping or modeling innovative
social solutions, field-testing such solutions, and evaluating their results to ensure that such solutions are practicable
and to reduce the risks associated with their implementation.
(i)All aspects of the commission’s work shall be governed by the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 to
120/7.5, and by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 to 140/11.5. Members of the public shall be
encouraged to attend and constructively participate in the commission’s meetings.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 3/23/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Business and Economic Development
Committee

_________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Murphy
Arroyo Jr., Butler, Gainer, Moore, Morrison, Schneider, Steele

Page 8 of 8

 