Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Thursday, May 1, 2014

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Room 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2-107 (dd), public
testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings of the Board.
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed
three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify
the person from providing future testimony.
14-2444
Sponsored by: EARLEAN COLLINS and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ADULT ORAL HEALTH CARE
WHEREAS, Cook County is a home rule unit of local government pursuant to Article VII, Section 6 (a) of the
1970 Illinois Constitution, and as such may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its
government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, this country’s strength and ability to prosper is grounded in the health and safety of its people. For
many years now millions of Americans could not afford adequate healthcare. The Affordable Care Act affords us
an opportunity to provide and improve health care services to every American; and
WHEREAS, while the passage of the Affordable Care Act has moved this country in a direction for all people to
have health insurance, it would be remiss of us not to acknowledge the need for adjustments as a program of this
magnitude is implemented; and
WHEREAS, the Affordable Care Act excludes adult oral health care services while it covers many essential
health benefits. It has been acknowledged by oral health care agencies and professionals that oral health care is
essential to insure overall quality of health; and

 WHEREAS, the U.S. Surgeon General refers to dental disease as a silent epidemic. In 2000 the U.S. Surgeon
General issued a report on the Oral Health of American, in it the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial
Research showed the link between general health and oral health. The report went on to say that many systemic
diseases and conditions have oral manifestations. These manifestations may be the initial sign of clinical disease
and as such serve to inform clinicians and individuals of the need for further assessment. More importantly, the
report notes that the oral cavity is a portal of entry as well as the site of disease for microbial infections that affect
general health status; and
WHEREAS, it is also acknowledge by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that the lack of access
to dental care is extremely important because left untreated oral disease can lead not only to pain, infection and
tooth loss, but also contribute to an increased risk for serious medical conditions such as diabetes, heart disease
and poor birth outcomes; and
WHEREAS, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention there are threats to oral health across
one’s lifespan. Nearly one-third of all adults in the United States have untreated tooth decay. One in seven adults
aged 35 to 44 years has gum disease, this increases to one in every four adults aged 65 years and older; and
WHEREAS, according to Oral Health America, the older adult population is the fastest growing segment of the
United States and many are facing a dire situation when it comes to oral health. Accordingly, by 2030 there will
be 72+ million older adults in the U.S., most won’t have access to dental care, impacting overall health; and
WHEREAS, a 2013 study, issued by Advance for Nurse Practitioners and Physicians Assistants, reported that
30% of older adults lose their teeth, 23% have gum disease, 50% have untreated cavities and that there are 30,000
oral and pharyngeal cancers diagnosed annually; and
WHEREAS, the American Dental Association (ADA) states that oral health is essential for a healthy America.
The ADA further states that no law, regulation or mandate will improve the oral health of the public unless
policymakers, patients and dentists work together with a shared understanding of the importance of oral health
and its relationship to overall health; and
WHEREAS, the ADA states that prevention pays and that the key to improving and maintaining good oral health
is by preventing oral disease.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of Commissioners
calls upon the President of the United States, the House and Senate to consider adult oral health care coverage
under the Affordable Care Act.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of the Resolution be tendered to the President of the United
States of America, the House and the Senate.
Legislative History: 4/9/2014 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee

_________________________________________
Secretary
Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Suffredin
Fritchey
Committee of the Whole

Page 2 of 2

 