BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

JOURNAL

for the
Special Meeting to consider Rules and Organization for the
2014-2018 term of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, December 10, 2014, 1:30 PM

Board of Commissioners
TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT
LUIS ARROYO JR
RICHARD R. BOYKIN
JERRY BUTLER
JOHN P. DALEY
JOHN A. FRITCHEY
BRIDGET GAINER
JESUS G. GARCIA
ELIZABETH “LIZ” DOODY GORMAN
GREGG GOSLIN

STANLEY MOORE
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
PETER N. SILVESTRI
DEBORAH SIMS
ROBERT B. STEELE
LARRY SUFFREDIN
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI

DAVID ORR
COUNTY CLERK

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

Board met pursuant to the following call:
December 5, 2014
The Honorable David Orr
Cook County Clerk
69 West Washington Street
Fifth Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Re:

SPECIAL MEETING NOTICE for December 10, 2014 at 1:30 p.m. in the Cook County Board
Room, 118 North Clark Street, Room 569, Chicago, Illinois

Dear Clerk Orr:
Pursuant to the authority vested in me, I hereby call a Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County to be convened on Wednesday, December 10, 2014, at the hour of 1:30 P.M. in the County
Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the
Board will establish by Ordinance the new Board Rules of Organization and Procedure and related
amendments to Part I, Chapter 2 (Administration) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances; appoint by
Resolution the President Pro Tempore and the Chair and Vice Chair of each standing committee and
standing subcommittee and appoint by Resolution the members of each standing committee and standing
subcommittee.
Please issue the Notice of this Special Meeting as required by law.
Very truly yours,
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
COPY OF LETTER SENT TO ALL COMMISSIONERS
December 5, 2014
President and Members
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Toni Preckwinkle, President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Wednesday, December 10, 2014 at the
hour of 1:30 P.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the Board will establish by Ordinance the new Board Rules of
Organization and Procedure and related amendments to Part I, Chapter 2 (Administration) of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances; appoint by Resolution the President Pro Tempore and the Chair and Vice
Chair of each standing committee and standing subcommittee and appoint by Resolution the members of
each standing committee and standing subcommittee.
Very truly yours,
David Orr, County Clerk
Page 2 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

This is to certify that a copy of the above notice was hand delivered and personally addressed to each
Member of the Board of Cook County Commissioners at their home address and was deposited in the
United States Mail on Friday, December 5, 2014.
DAVID ORR, County Clerk
* * * * *
The following Legal Notice appeared in the Chicago Tribune Newspaper on Monday, December 8, 2014
through Wednesday, December 10, 2014.

LEGAL NOTICE
Toni Preckwinkle, President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, has directed me to call a
Special Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County on Wednesday, December 10, 2014 at the
hour of 1:30 P.M. in the County Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois, at which meeting the Board will establish by Ordinance the new Board Rules of
Organization and Procedure and related amendments to Part I, Chapter 2 (Administration) of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances; appoint by Resolution the President Pro Tempore and the Chair and Vice
Chair of each standing committee and standing subcommittee and appoint by Resolution the members of
each standing committee and standing subcommittee.
Very truly yours,
DAVID ORR, County Clerk and
Clerk of the Board of the Commissioners of Cook County, Illinois

OFFICIAL RECORD
President Preckwinkle in the chair.

CALL TO ORDER
At 1:30 P.M., being the hour appointed for the meeting, the President called the Board to order.

QUORUM
County Clerk David Orr called the roll of members and there was found to be a quorum present.

ROLL CALL
Present:

President Preckwinkle, Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Fritchey, García, Gorman,
Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider, Silvestri, Steele, Sims and Tobolski (14)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Gainer and Suffredin (3)

Page 3 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver testimony
germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3) minutes.
The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of
Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
1. Karin Hribar, Co-President, League of Women Voters of Cook County
2. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen
COMMISSIONERS
15-0633
ORDINANCE
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT, LUIS ARROYO JR,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET GAINER,
JESÚS G. GARCÍA, ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN,
STANLEY MOORE, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER,
PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN
AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
NEW RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration, Article
III County Board, Division 1 Generally and Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure of the Cook
County Code, is hereby repealed and enacted as follows:
ARTICLE III. - COUNTY BOARD
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
Sec. 2-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(a) Board or County Board means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(b) Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed Cook County Board Commissioner, and
means the same as "member" of the Board.
(c) Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special committee
and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.

Page 4 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(d) Clerk means the Clerk of the County Board who has been appointed by the County Clerk.
(e) Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by this
division.
(f) President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(g) Secretary means the Secretary of the Board who has been appointed by the President.
(h) Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the
Commissioners.
Sec. 2-72. - Vacancies.
(a) If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment of
the appropriate district committee of the political party in the County Board District of which the incumbent
was a candidate at the time of the candidate's election. If the incumbent Commissioner was appointed to
the position, then such vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the appropriate district committee of the
political party in the County Board District which appointed the incumbent. The appointee shall be of the
same political party that the incumbent Commissioner was at the time of election or appointment.
(b) The district committee of a County Board District shall consist of the committeemen of each ward
or township contained in whole or in part within the County Board District. In making appointments under
this section, each committeeman of the appropriate district committee shall be entitled to one vote for each
vote that was received, in that portion of the County Board District which the committeeman represent on
the committee, by the Commissioner whose seat is vacant at the general election at which that
Commissioner was elected to the seat which has been vacated (or the Commissioner's elected predecessor,
if the Commissioner whose seat is vacant was appointed) and a majority of the total number of votes
received in such general election by the Commissioner whose seat is vacant is required for the appointment
of the successor.
(c) Appointments made under this section shall be in writing and shall be signed by members of the
district committee whose total votes are sufficient to make the appointments. Such appointments shall be
filed with the County Clerk.
(d) An appointment made under this section shall be for the remainder of the term.
Sec. 2-73. - Code of Conduct.
(a) Each member of the County Board shall:
(1)

Promote public confidence in County government.

(2)

Keep safe all funds and other properties of the County.

(3)

Evaluate all financial decisions so that the best service or product is obtained at a minimal
cost without sacrificing quality and fiscal responsibility.

(4)

Maintain a positive public image to pass constant public scrutiny.

Page 5 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(5)

Inject the prestige of the office into everyday dealings with the public, employees, and
associates.

(6)

Conduct and perform the duties of the office diligently and promptly dispose of the business
of the County.

(7)

Strive to bring new business and Industry into the County and diligently work towards
maintaining all existing business and industry.

(8)

Maintain a respectful attitude toward employees, other public officials and associates.

(9)

Effectively and efficiently work with all governmental agencies, political subdivisions and
other organizations within the County in order to further the interest of the County.

(10) Properly administer the affairs of the County.
(11) Faithfully comply with the laws of the land and regulations of the County and impartially
apply them to everyone.
(b) Each member of the County Board shall not use the elected/or appointed position to:
(1) Improperly influence or attempt to influence other officials to act in the member's own favor.
(2) Accept anything of value from any source which is offered to influence the member's action as
a public official.
(3) Engage in outside interests that are not compatible with the impartial and objective
performance of the member's duties.
Sec. 2-74. - Clerk of Board; printed proceedings of County Board.
(a) The Cook County Clerk shall perform, or designate an individual to perform, the function of Clerk
of the Board. The Clerk of the Board shall take the roll of the members of the Board at every meeting of
the Board when requested.
(b) The Clerk of the Board shall, in conjunction with the Secretary to the Board, record the proceedings
of the County Board.
(c) That the Clerk of the Board is hereby, instructed to print or cause to be printed all the proceedings
of the County Board had, done or enacted at each and every meeting, general and special, thereof, in such
manner that the printed proceedings shall be a full and perfect record of all the acts and doings of the County
Board at each and every of its regular and special meetings and each and every of the sessions thereof.
(d) The printed proceedings of each meeting or session, as above provided, shall be submitted to the
County Board for its approval at the first session immediately succeeding the meeting or session at which
such proceedings were had. The printed proceedings, when approved by the County Board, shall stand for
and be the official record of the proceedings of the County Board and shall be duly certified as such by the
Clerk of the Board.

Page 6 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(e) Approval of Journal of Proceedings. Effective January 1, 2011, in accordance with Public Act 96
1473, the Journal of Proceedings shall be approved within the time allowed by the law. To achieve this
requirement of the law, the following procedures shall be followed:
(1) Commissioners shall file a statement of their "nay" and "present" votes with the Clerk, for
items before the Board, or with the Secretary, for items in Committee within 24 hours of the
end of a Meeting.
(2) Draft copies of the Journal of Proceedings shall be circulated to the President and the Board
within 21 days of the meeting for review and correction.
(3) All corrections shall be made to the Clerk in writing within 48 hours of receiving the Draft
Copy of the Journal of Proceedings.
(4) A standing meeting of the Committee on Rules and Administration, shall be convened prior
to a regularly scheduled Board Meetings shall be convened to approve the Journal with all
corrections.
(5) The Board shall approve the Report of the Committee on Rules and Administration at the
subsequent Board Meeting.
Sec. 2-75. – Secretary to the Board of Commissioners; Videotaped proceedings.
(a) The Secretary to the Board shall be responsible for assisting the President and Members of the
Board in the assembly of the agendas, notices and reports for the meetings of the Board, its committees and
subcommittees.
(b) The Secretary to the Board shall maintain an electronic legislative database of all proceedings of
the Board, its committees and subcommittees. The Secretary shall assign a file identification number to
items heard by the Board, its committees and subcommittees and utilize the number in the database.
The Secretary to the Board shall be responsible for coordinating the creation and maintenance of an
audio and/or video record of all Board proceedings. Creation and maintenance of an audio and video record
of the meetings includes any production, publication, reproduction, broadcast, live stream, digital archive
or any other method of making such records available to the public in part or in whole. The Secretary shall
retain all recordings and make them available upon request, with the exception of closed session recordings
protected in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act. Members of the public shall be allowed to
listen to recordings of open meetings during regular office hours except when the recordings are in
immediate use by persons exercising official County duties. The Secretary may require a notice in writing
to be submitted 48 hours prior to the time when the recordings are desired for viewing. In accordance with
the Freedom of Information Act, any member of the public wishing to purchase a copy of a recording of an
open meeting may do so upon payment to the County of the cost of its reproduction.

Page 7 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(c) County departments which may aid in the creation and maintenance of an audio and video record
of the Board proceedings shall provide their cooperation to the Secretary to the Board in the furtherance of
the Secretary’s responsibilities as enumerated in Subsection (b).
(d) No portion of any videotape of the proceedings of the County Board, or of any committee or
subcommittee thereof, prepared or taken by or for the County shall be produced, manufactured, sold,
distributed or broadcast for commercial use or sponsorship, where such commercial use or sponsorship
could reasonably be expected to lead to false or misleading communication or any unlawful activity in
relation to the content of the videotape. Use of the videotape as part of a bona fide news program or public
affairs documentary program is not prohibited. Certified copies of videotaped recordings of meetings of
the County Board or of any sub-committee thereof, shall be available for distribution pursuant to rules and
procedures as may be adopted by the County Board. Videotaped recordings as may be made of meetings
shall be retained by the County Clerk of the County and be made available by the County Clerk for public
inspection and copying pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.). Nothing herein
shall require the County Clerk to provide electronic viewing equipment.
(e) Any person who violates the videotaping provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of up
to $1,000.00 for each violation.
Sec. 2-76. - Ordinances, resolutions, motions, veto and reconsideration.
Upon the return to the County Clerk by the President of the County Board of any or a portion of any
ordinance, resolution or motion adopted by said Board, the vote by which the same was adopted shall be
reconsidered by said Board as to so much thereof as may have been vetoed; and if, after such
reconsideration, four-fifths of all the members of the Board shall agree to adopt the same by yeas and nays,
to be entered on the journal, the same shall take effect notwithstanding the President may have refused to
approve thereof.
If the President vetoes any Ordinance or Resolution or other item, the Clerk shall place the veto message
and the corresponding ordinance or resolution or other item on the agenda of the next regular meeting.
Sec. 2-77. - Fiscal impact review.
(a) Short title. This Section shall be known and may be cited as the Fiscal Impact Review Ordinance.
(b) Impact note required.
(1) Every measure before the County Board including but not limited to any ordinance, resolution,
motion, contract approval, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually
"measure"), except those measures making a direct appropriation or approving a contract for a
specified amount to be expended within one fiscal year, the purpose or effect of which is to
expend any County funds or to increase or decrease the revenues of the County, or to require
the expenditure of their own funds either directly or indirectly, shall have prepared for it a brief
explanatory statement or note ("fiscal note") which shall include a reliable estimate of the
probable impact of such measure upon the County's annual budget.

Page 8 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(2) If an ordinance authorizes capital expenditures or appropriates funds for capital expenditures,
a fiscal note shall specify by year any principal and interest payments required to finance such
capital expenditures. In addition, increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no
event shall a fiscal note be required to estimate out-year costs for more than five years.
(c) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing the fiscal note.
(1) The Secretary of the Board shall request, promptly after the introduction of the measure before
the County Board, the Chief Financial Officer of the County to prepare a fiscal note setting
forth the information specified in this section regarding any measure.
(2) No measure may be called for a final vote by the County Board until delivery of the fiscal note
according to the provisions of this section, except that whenever, because of the complexity of
the measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the fiscal note the Chief Financial
Officer shall provide each member of the County Board and the President of the County Board
with a statement of reasons why the fiscal note cannot be supplied in seven business days, and
request an extension of time not to exceed five additional business days within which such
fiscal note is to be furnished. Such extension shall be granted only with the consent of the
majority of the members of the County Board and shall not extend beyond the end of the fiscal
year in which the request was made. In no event may such extensions be used to unduly delay
or hinder the consideration of the measure by the County Board. The County Board shall
authorize the drafting of any rules of regulations which shall be subject to County Board
approval, to ensure compliance with this section.
(3) In connection with the preparation of the fiscal note, all County officials and employees shall
upon request cooperate with the Chief Fiscal Officer in providing information.
(d) Form and content.
(1) The fiscal note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide as
reliable an estimate, in dollars, as is possible under the circumstances. The fiscal note shall
include both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the longrange effect of the measure.
(2) If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the fiscal note
shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can be
given. A brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the fiscal note figures
shall be included.

(d) Preparation of fiscal note.
(1) No comment or opinion shall be included in the fiscal note with regard to the merits of the
measure for which the fiscal note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical defects may
be noted.

Page 9 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(2) The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the
fiscal note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of
personnel, materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The fiscal note shall also include such
other information as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated by the
County Board with respect to the preparation of such fiscal notes. A copy of the fiscal note
shall be delivered to each member of the Board and the President of the County Board,
according to the provisions of Subsection (b) of this section.
(3) The original of the fiscal note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial Officer
or such person as the Chief Financial Officer may designate.
(f) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a fiscal note is prepared for any measure shall
not preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any official or
authorized employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be heard
in support of or in opposition to the measure.
Sec. 2-78. - Debt impact review.
(a) Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the Debt Impact Review Ordinance.
(b) Long-term debt authorization. In this section the term "long-term debt authorization" means:
(1) The dollar amount of bonds or other evidences of indebtedness which are secured by the full
faith and credit of the County or are required to be repaid, directly or indirectly, from tax
revenue and which can be sold in support of designated purposes by the County, any
department, authority, public corporation or quasi-public corporation of the County, or any
other public agency created by the County; or
(2) The dollar amount of bond and other evidences of indebtedness which are not secured by the
full faith and credit or tax revenue of the County nor required to be repaid, directly or indirectly,
from tax revenue and which can be sold in support of designated purposes by the County, any
department, authority, public corporation and quasi-public corporation of the County, or any
other public agency created by the County.
(b)
Impact note required. Every measure before the County Board, including but not limited to any
ordinance, resolution, motion, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually "measure"), which
proposes to increase or add new long-term debt authorization or would require, through appropriation, the
use of bond financed funds, shall have prepared for it a brief explanatory statement or note which shall
include a reliable estimate of the probable impact of such measure upon the finances of the County
Government ("debt impact note").
d) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing note.
(1) The Secretary of the Board shall request, promptly after the introduction of the measure before
the County Board, the Chief Financial Officer, or any person within the office of the Chief
Financial Officer whom the Chief Financial Officer may designate, to prepare a written
statement setting forth the information specified in this section regarding any measure.

Page 10 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(2) No measure may be called for a final vote by the County Board until delivery of the debt impact
note according to the provisions of this section, except that whenever, because of the
complexity of the measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the debt impact
note, the office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide each member of the County Board
and the President of the County Board with a statement of reasons why the debt impact note
cannot be supplied in seven business days, and request an extension of time not to exceed five
additional business days, within which such debt impact note is to be furnished. Such extension
shall be granted only with the consent of the majority of the members of the County Board and
shall not extend beyond the end of the fiscal year in which the request was made. In no event
may such extensions be used to unduly delay or hinder the consideration of the measure by the
County Board. The County Board shall authorize the drafting of any rules or regulations which
shall be subject to County Board approval, to ensure compliance with this section.
(3) In connection with the preparation of the debt impact note, all County officials and employees
shall upon request cooperate with the Chief Fiscal Officer in providing information.
(e) Form and content.
(1) The debt impact note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide
as reliable an estimate, in terms of dollar impact, as is possible under the circumstances. The
debt impact note shall include both the immediate effect, and if determinable or reasonably
foreseeable, the long-range effect of the measure.
(2) If, after careful investigation it is determined that no dollar estimate is possible, the debt impact
note shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no such estimate can
be given. A brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at the debt impact
note figures shall be included.
(f) Preparation of debt impact note.
(1) No comment or opinion shall be included in the debt impact note with regard to the merits of
the measure for which the debt impact note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical
defects may be noted.
(2) The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the
debt impact note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of
personnel, materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The debt impact note shall also include
such other information as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated
by the County Board with respect to the preparation of such debt impact notes. A copy of the
debt impact note shall be delivered to each member of the County Board and the President of
the County Board according to the provisions of Subsection (b) of this section.
(3) The original of the debt impact note and the work sheet shall be signed by the Chief Financial
Officer or such person as the Chief Financial Officer may designate.
(g) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a debt impact note is prepared for any measure
shall not preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any official or
authorized employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires to be heard
in support of or in opposition to the measure.

Page 11 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

Sec. 2-79. - Correctional budget impact review.
(a) Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the Correctional Budget Impact Review
Ordinance.
(b) Impact note required. Every measure before the County Board, including but not limited to any
ordinance, resolution, motion, or any amendment thereto (collectively and individually "measure"), which
creates a new criminal offense for which a sentence to the County Department of Corrections may be
imposed, or which enhances any class or category of offense to a higher grade or penalty for which a
sentence to the County Department of Corrections is authorized, or which requires a mandatory
commitment to the County Department of Corrections, shall have prepared for it a correctional budget and
impact note ("correctional note"), which shall include a brief explanatory statement or note and a reliable
estimate of the probable impact of such measure upon the overall resident population of the County
Department of Corrections incarceration facilities and the probable impact which such measure will have
upon the Department's annual budget.
(c) Responsibility and deadline for furnishing note.
(1) The Secretary of the Board shall request, promptly after the introduction of the measure before
the County Board, the County Sheriff ("Sheriff"), or any person within the office of the Sheriff
whom the Sheriff may designate, to prepare a correctional note setting forth the information
specified in this section regarding any measure.
(2) No measure may be called for a final vote by the County Board until delivery of the correctional
note according to the provisions of this section, except that whenever, because of the
complexity of the Measure, additional time is required for the preparation of the correctional
note, the office of the Sheriff shall provide each member of the County Board and the President
of the County Board with a statement of reasons why the correctional note cannot be supplied
in seven business days, and request an extension of time not to exceed five additional business
days within which such correctional note is to be furnished. Such extension shall be granted
only with the consent of the majority of the members of the County Board and shall not extend
beyond the end of the fiscal year in which the request was made. In no event may such
extensions be used to unduly delay or hinder the consideration of the measure by the County
Board. The County Board shall authorize the drafting of any rules or regulations which shall
be subject to County Board approval, or take any further action necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
(3) In connection with the preparation of the correctional note, all County officials and employees
shall upon request cooperate with the Sheriff in providing information.
(d) Form and content.
(1) The correctional note shall be factual in nature, as brief and concise as may be, and shall provide
as reliable an estimate, in terms of population and dollar impact, as is possible under the
circumstances. The correctional note shall include both the immediate effect, and if
determinable or reasonably foreseeable, the long-range effect of the measure.

Page 12 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(2) If capital expenditures are authorized, or funds for capital expenditures are appropriated, the
fiscal note shall specify by year any principal and interest payments required to finance such
capital expenditures. In addition, increased operational costs, by year, shall be specified. In no
event shall a correctional note be required to estimate out-year costs for more than five years.
(3) If, after careful investigation it is determined that no population or dollar estimate is possible,
the correctional note shall contain a statement to that effect, setting forth the reasons why no
such estimate can be given. A brief summary or work sheet of computations used in arriving at
the correctional note figures shall be included.
(e) Preparation of correctional note.
(1) No comment or opinion shall be included in the correctional note with regard to the merits of
the measure for which the correctional note is prepared; however, technical or mechanical
defects may be noted.
(2) The work sheet shall include, insofar as practicable, a breakdown of the costs upon which the
correctional note is based. Such breakdown shall include, but need not be limited to, costs of
personnel, materials and supplies, and capital outlay. The correctional note shall also include
such other information as is required by the rules and regulations which may be promulgated
by the County Board with respect to the preparation of such correctional notes. A copy of the
correctional note shall be delivered to each member of the County Board and the President of
the County Board according to the provisions of Subsection (b) of this section.
(3) The original of the correctional note and the work sheet shall be signed by the State's Attorney
or such person as the Sheriff may designate.
(e) No restrictions on committee testimony. The fact that a correctional note is prepared for any
measure shall not preclude or restrict the appearance before any committee of the County Board, of any
official or authorized employee of any County commission, department, agency or other entity who desires
to be heard in support of or in opposition to the measure.
Sec. 2-80. - Committee on tax foreclosures.
The President of the County Board is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a committee of the
County Board, consisting of a minimum of five members whose duty it shall be to consider parcels of real
estate submitted to it by municipalities and governmental agencies or their subdivisions and upon
consideration thereof make the proper recommendation as to forfeiture foreclosure thereon. Such
recommendation of forfeiture foreclosure thereon shall set a minimum bid which the municipality or
governmental agency has guaranteed that it will make at the forfeiture foreclosure sale, the Committee in
the exercise of its powers to recommend tax foreclosures, shall be limited to consideration and
recommendation for forfeiture foreclosures only requests made to it by municipalities, governmental
agencies and their subdivisions.

Page 13 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

Sec. 2-81. - Legislative and fiscal impact review.
(a) Any proposed legislation introduced before the Illinois General Assembly at the behest of the Cook
County Treasurer, Recorder of Deeds, Assessor, Sheriff, Clerk of the Circuit Court, Chief Judge, State's
Attorney, County Clerk, member of the Board of Review, or any person acting on behalf of the President
of Cook County in a capacity as chief of a bureau or head of a department, is required to carry the prior
written consent of the President and Board of Commissioners. In the event that any of the herein named
officials appears in the record as a proponent of a measure that passes both houses of the General Assembly
and becomes law, where said law has a fiscal impact on Cook County government, the full amount of the
fiscal impact will be charged against the budget of the elected or appointed county official so identified as
a proponent.
(b) A fiscal impact review shall be conducted annually by the Director of Budget and Management
Services, for purposes of evaluating the accuracy of annual income projections from revenue sources based
on fees, when said projections were provided by the office of the Cook County Treasurer, Recorder of
Deeds, Assessor, Sheriff, Clerk of the Circuit Court, Chief Judge, State's Attorney, County Clerk, or Board
of Review (the "Elected Officials") in conjunction with consideration and adoption of the Annual
Appropriations Ordinance. In the event that revenue generated from a fee is not sufficient to equal or exceed
the annual projection and a shortfall is projected, as determined by the Budget Director at the Mid-Year
Budget Review, and when it is further determined that the shortfall is a result of a failure to impose a fee
as required by law, or a failure to properly administer and collect a fee as required by law, the Budget
Director shall report the shortfall to the Board of Commissioners for an immediate amendatory reduction
in appropriation authority previously granted to the budgetary unit(s) of the Elected Official responsible for
calculating said revenue estimate(s), of an amount corresponding to the identified shortfall.
Sec. 2-82 Confirmation of presidential appointments.
All appointments and reappointments of the President requiring the advice and consent of the Board
shall be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee upon the President's
submission unless waived by the Board. The Committee shall promptly hold such hearings as it deems
appropriate and shall, no later than 30 days after referral, report all such appointments to the Board with a
recommendation for action. If the Committee has not made a timely report on any appointment, the
appointment shall, at the next regular meeting of the Board following the expiration of such 30 days, be
referred to the Board with "no recommendation" by the Committee.
Prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate for appointment or reappointment by the
President or any other appointing authority shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:
(1) Is signed by the candidate;
(2) Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;
(3) Is notarized;
(4) Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute,
ordinance, law or regulation that creates the appointment, including, but not limited to;
a. Any residency requirements; and/or
b. Any prohibitions on dual employment;
Page 14 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(5) Attests that the candidate possesses no conflicts of interest that would prevent them from
adequately representing the interests of the agency to which they are being appointed; and
(6) Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills to adequately
represent the interests of the agency and delineates those qualifications and skills;
(7) Notarizes and acknowledges:
a. The candidate's actual residency address;
b. The length of time that the candidate has resided at their actual residency;
c. If the candidate owns any other residential property within Cook County; and
d. If the candidate obtains any homeowners property tax exemptions for property other than
their actual residency address.
If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is appointed, the
candidate will notify the President of Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Chairman of the
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee in writing within seven business days of the
change.
Sec. 2-83 Budget matters.
(a) Finance committee.
(1) The President's executive budget recommendation and all motions, resolutions or ordinances
that propose, amend, transfer or supplement any appropriations of funds or budget measure
shall be referred to the Finance Committee.
(2) Upon receiving the Executive Recommendation, the Finance Committee shall make the
recommendation conveniently available to public inspection for at least ten days prior to final
action in printed format and electronic format on a publicly accessible County owned website.
(3) The President's executive budget recommendation and all motions, resolutions or ordinances
that propose, amend, transfer or supplement any appropriations of funds or budget measure
shall provide the basis upon which the annual appropriation ordinance is prepared and enacted.
(4) The Finance Committee shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be
given by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the County at least one week
prior to the time of such hearing. It shall be the duty of the Finance Committee to prepare such
tentative appropriation bill and make it so available to public inspection and also to arrange for
and hold such public hearing or hearings.
(b) Debate. The proponent of any budgetary measure shall be afforded the right of debate provided
for in Section 2-105(o).
Sec. 2-84—2-100. - Reserved.

Page 15 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

DIVISION 2. - RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
Sec. 2-101. - Purpose.
(a) The provisions of this division shall constitute the rules of the Board.
(b) It is the purpose of this division:
(1) To provide appropriate procedures and organization for the Board of Commissioners to conduct
its business in an orderly and efficient manner;
(2) To protect the right of all Commissioners to participate fully in the legislative process;
(3 To foster accountability in County government; and
(4) To promote openness and maximize participation in the business and affairs of the Board.
Sec. 2-102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(a) Board or County Board means the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(b) Commissioner means any duly elected or duly appointed County Board Commissioner, and means
the same as "member" of the Board.
(c) Committee means a committee of the Board and includes a standing committee, a special committee
and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.
(d) Clerk means the Clerk of the Board who has been appointed by the Cook County Clerk.
(e) Committee of the whole means a committee comprised of all Commissioners as required by this
division.
(f) Majority means a simple majority of those Commissioners present and entitled to vote on a
question, while a Majority vote means the vote of a simple majority of those Commissioners present and
entitled to vote on a question.
(g) Majority of those elected means a majority of the total number of Commissioners entitled by law
to be elected to the Board, irrespective of the number of elected or appointed Commissioners actually
serving in office. So long as 17 Commissioners are entitled to be elected to the Board, a vote of a "majority
of those elected" shall mean nine affirmative votes.
(h) President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
(i) Secretary means the Secretary of the Board who has been appointed by the President.

Page 16 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(j) Term means the four-year term of office established by State law for the President and the
Commissioners.
Sec. 2-103. - Interpretation, force and effect.
(a) Applicability. The meetings and actions of the Board, including all of its committees, shall be
governed by this division.
(b) Effect of State law. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this division, this division
supersedes all provisions of Illinois statute to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency, except for statutes
that, by their terms, specifically limit home rule units pursuant to Article VII, Section 6(g) or 6(h) of the
1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois.
(c) Effective date. This division shall be in full force and effect upon adoption, and shall remain in full
force and effect except as amended in accordance herewith, or until superseded by new rules adopted as
part of the organization of a newly-constituted Board at the commencement of a term.
(d) Interpretation. This division shall be interpreted and applied to foster the goals and purposes set
forth in Section 2-101. This division is to be construed in accordance with the customary American usage
and meaning of parliamentary terms and expressions and the plain meaning of the ordinary words appearing
herein. In case of ambiguous application, this division shall be applied in a manner that fosters openness,
accountability and fairness in the operation of the Board.
(e) Adoption of rules. At the commencement of a term, the Board may adopt new rules of organization
and procedure by ordinance setting forth such rules in their entirety and repealing these rules. Such
ordinance must be adopted by a majority of those elected. Rules so adopted shall supersede these rules.
(f) Rules for committee meetings. The rules of procedure for all committee, subcommittee and special
committee meetings shall be the same as for Board meetings, except that committees composed of less than
the entire Board shall require only a majority of the committee members for a quorum.
(g) Amendment or suspension of rules.
Any provision of this division may be temporarily suspended by majority vote, upon motion of any
Commissioner specifying the rule to be suspended.
Sec. 2-104. – Transition; Appointment of chairs and vice-chairs of committees and subcommittees;
Appointment of members of committees and subcommittees.
(a) Transition, 2014-2018 term.
(1) The standing committees and subcommittees created by Ordinance previously adopted
December 14, 2010, are replaced by the standing committees and subcommittees set forth in
this division. Beginning with the term commencing December 1, 2014, standing committees
and subcommittees in this division shall be replaced in whole or in part by ordinance.

Page 17 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(2) The resolution appointing Chairs and Vice-Chairs to such committees, which was adopted on
December 14, 2010, shall be replaced pursuant to resolution of the Board adopted pursuant to
Section 2-105. The appointments made pursuant to such resolution shall remain in effect for
the current term. Beginning with the term commencing December 1, 2014, the resolution
appointing Chairs and Vice-Chairs to such committees, shall be replaced pursuant to resolution
of the Board adopted pursuant to Section 2-105. The appointments made pursuant to such
resolution shall remain in effect for the current term unless further amended by the Board.
(3) The resolution appointing members of committees and subcommittees which was adopted on
December 14, 2010, shall be replaced pursuant to resolution of the Board adopted pursuant to
Section 2-105. The appointments made pursuant to such resolution shall remain in effect for
the current term. Beginning with the term commencing December 1, 2014, the resolution
appointing members of committees and subcommittees shall be replaced pursuant to resolution
of the Board adopted pursuant to Section 2-105. The appointments made pursuant to such
resolution shall remain in effect for the current term unless further amended by the Board.
(b) Items pending in committee at conclusion of term. All items relating to pending litigation, workers'
compensation claims or applications made pursuant to the Cook County Zoning Ordinance of 2001 at the
conclusion of each term shall automatically be referred to the successor committee during the succeeding
term. All items which were referred to committee by the Board of Commissioners on November 19, 2014
shall automatically be referred to its successor committee in the 2014-2018 term without further action by
the Board. Except as otherwise provided in this section, upon conclusion of the 2010—2014 term and each
term thereafter, all legislation and other items referred to any committee or subcommittee prior to the last
regular meeting of the term of the Board shall automatically be discharged from Committee and shall
automatically be received and filed by the Board. The Secretary shall issue a report not less than 60 days
prior to the expiration of each term to the President and chair of each committee and subcommittee listing
all items pending in each committee and subcommittee.
Sec. 2-105. - Board of Commissioners; Meetings of the Board
(a) Meetings.
(1) Regular meetings. The Board shall hold regular meetings pursuant to an annual calendar
adopted by resolution of the Board. All regular meetings shall be held at the County Seat, in
the Board Room of the County Office Building, unless another place within the County shall
be designated by the President or Board.
(2) Special meetings. It shall be the duty of the President to call special meetings of the Board
whenever the President believes such meetings are necessary. The President must give no less
than 48 hours' advance written notice of such special meetings to the Commissioners and to the
public. All special meetings shall be held at the County Seat, in the Board Room of the County
Office Building, unless another place within the County shall be designated.
a. Special meetings shall also be held whenever requested by at least one-third of the
Commissioners (six Commissioners). At least 48 hours' advance written notice of such
special meetings shall be given to the remaining Commissioners and the public.

Page 18 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

b. All notices of special meetings must include an agenda for such meeting, and such meeting
shall be limited to the subjects and items specified in the call of the meeting. The notice of
the call of the meeting shall be read at the beginning of the meeting.
(3) Emergency meetings. In the event that the President states that an emergency exists, the
President may call a special meeting, providing 24 hours advance written notice to the
Commissioners and to the public, unless not reasonable under the circumstances. In such case
notice shall be given as soon as practicable. All emergency meetings shall be held at the County
Seat, in the County Office Building, unless another place within the County shall be designated
by the President or Board.
(4) Cancellation of meetings. A regular or special meeting may be cancelled by the President by
providing no less than 24 hours advance written notice that said meeting has been cancelled to
the Commissioners and to the public.
(b) Presiding officer. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board and shall generally
perform the duties customarily performed by a presiding officer. In the absence of the President, or during
the temporary inability of the President to act, the President Pro Tempore shall preside at meetings of the
Board. In the absence of the President and the President Pro Tempore, the Chairman of the Finance
Committee shall preside at meetings of the Board.
(c) President Pro Tempore. At the commencement of a term, the President shall nominate and the
Board shall by resolution elect one Commissioner as President Pro Tempore for such term. The President
Pro Tempore shall, in the absence of the President, preside over meetings of the Board. In the event that the
President is temporarily unable to act in performing the remainder of his or her official duties, the President
Pro Tempore shall perform such duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President until such
time as the President is able to perform such duties or, in the event of a vacancy in the Office of the
President, until such vacancy is filled. If the President Pro Tempore shall cease to be a Commissioner or
shall resign from the position of President Pro Tempore, the Board shall appoint another Commissioner to
serve as President Pro Tempore by Resolution for the remainder of the term or a time certain.
(d) Quorum. A majority of those elected (nine Commissioners) shall constitute a quorum for a meeting
of the Board or a meeting of a committee of the whole. A majority of Commissioners appointed to any
committee, other than a committee of the whole, shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of such committee
or subcommittee.
(e) Absence of quorum.
(1)

Should a quorum not be present at any regular meeting of the Board, the meeting shall stand
adjourned from day to day, to the same hour of each day, until a quorum shall attend.

(2)

Should a quorum not be present at any special meeting of the Board, the meeting shall stand
adjourned from day to day, to the same hour of each day, until a quorum shall attend.

(3)

Should a quorum not be present at a committee meeting of the Board, the Commissioners
present shall be competent to adjourn, receive public testimony but take no formal action
and/or recess the meeting to a date certain.

Page 19 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(f) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which a
higher majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those
Commissioners entitled to vote. A vote of "present" shall not be counted in determining the number of
Commissioners voting on a question.
(g) Order of business.
(1) At each regular meeting of the Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed by the
Board) is as follows:
a. Public testimony.
b. Consent calendar.
c. New business.
d. Committee Items Requiring Board Action
(2) The Board may grant members of the public leave to speak on items pending before the Board
pursuant to the rules set forth in Section 2-105(i).
(3) All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding officer,
without debate, subject to appeal.
(4) Meetings of the Board may commence with a prayer or invocation and the Pledge of
Allegiance.
(h) Prior notice to public. No less than 72 hours before any meeting of the Board, notice and an agenda
for such meeting shall be provided to the President, all Commissioners and all news media that have
requested notice of meetings. Notice shall also be posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the
location where the meeting is to be held, and shall be made available to the public in the Office of the
Secretary. New items posted to an agenda must be posted at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting by
the Secretary and at the location where the meeting is to be held in order for the Board to consider the item
for approval; new items posted with less than 48 hours' notice must be withdrawn, deferred, or referred to
committee. In addition, notices and agendas of all meetings shall be posted on a County owned website.
(i) Public testimony. Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be permitted at regular
and special meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those
individuals who have submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to
the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to
deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific
item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep
track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide
public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the
Board. Failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to
adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from
providing future testimony.

Page 20 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(j) Agendas.
(1) Board Meeting Agenda. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered at
the meeting, except for items to be included in the consent calendar as set forth in Subsection
(3) of this Section. Material pertinent to an item on a Board agenda shall be supplied, along
with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the exception of
materials that are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the
public in the office of the Secretary.
a. Items may be placed on an agenda not later than noon of the day previous to the day on
which an agenda is required to be distributed. This subsection shall not apply to items
reported to the Board by any of its committees of the whole.
b

Items may be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the President or any
Commissioner. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an ordinance or
resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Committee reports shall be placed on the agenda of a Board meeting by the Chair of the
committee. Items may be placed on the agenda of a committee meeting by a Commissioner
who is a member of the committee or the President, in his ex officio capacity, provided that
such item has been referred to the committee by the Board pursuant to Section 2-106(o).

c. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare, post and distribute all agendas for meetings of
the Board, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare, post and distribute agendas
for committee meetings.
d. No issuance of any debt instrument which pledges the full faith and credit of the County
shall be the subject of final action by the Board of Commissioners unless it has been
preceded by at least one public hearing on the prospective matter by the Finance
Committee. Notification of such hearing shall be the responsibility of the Finance
Committee, which notice shall be as set forth in Section 2-105(i).
e. Amendments or Substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of the Board
shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of the meeting at
which the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or substitute, the
Secretary shall immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the President, all
Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be
posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to be held,
and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary. This rule may be
waived for technical amendments or emergencies.
(2) New Items Agenda. The Secretary shall prepare a new items agenda to be issued subsequent to
the issuance of the Board agenda for a regular meeting. Items may be placed on the agenda by
the President or by Commissioners. Where the President or a Commissioner(s) introduces an
ordinance or resolution, he or she shall be listed as sponsor(s) of such ordinance or resolution.
Each communication, motion, resolution, or ordinance, after being read by the Clerk, may be
acted upon immediately by the Board, or referred to committee, as ordered by the Board subject
to the “Prior notice to public” provisions of this division.

Page 21 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(3) Consent calendar. The Consent Calendar is a compilation of proposed resolutions concerning
deaths, anniversaries, and congratulations for notable achievements. Only proposed resolutions
conforming to this description may be submitted to the Secretary for inclusion on the Consent
Calendar, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary to prepare the Consent Calendar for any
regular meeting of the Board. Proposed resolutions on the Consent Calendar are non-debatable,
and shall not be read in to the record or otherwise considered individually, but shall be part of
a motion to approve the Consent Calendar in its entirety. Any item on the Consent Calendar
may be removed by a motion, seconded and approved, and shall then be subject to the
provisions of this division as provided herein.
(k) Floor privileges.
(1) During all meetings of the Board, access to the floor shall be limited to the following persons,
except pursuant to leave granted by the Board:
a. The President, Clerk, Secretary, Parliamentarian and Sergeant-at-Arms;
b. Commissioners;
c. Other elected Cook County officers;
d. Former Commissioners;
e. Staff of the Board; and
f.

Staff of the President.

(2) At the direction of the President or at the request of any Commissioner, the floor shall be
cleared of staff. At the request of any Commissioner, unauthorized persons shall be ordered
removed from the floor.
(l) Decorum.
(1) The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of order in
preference to other Commissioners, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
(2) In case of any disturbances or disorderly conduct the presiding officer shall have the power to
require the chamber to be cleared.
(m) Sergeant-at-Arms. The President may, with the advice and consent of the Board, appoint a
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Board, who shall preserve order and obey the directions of the Board and of the
presiding officer. The Sergeant-at-Arms shall be removable at the will of the President or pursuant to written
petition, filed with the Clerk, by a majority of those elected.

Page 22 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(n) Recognition for debate. A Commissioner desiring to obtain the floor shall address the presiding
officer. If two or more Commissioners shall properly request recognition, the presiding officer shall
recognize the one who first spoke. A Commissioner shall not proceed with remarks until recognized and
named by the presiding officer. In debate a Commissioner shall confine himself to the question before the
Board, avoid personalities, and in general observe all parliamentary rules pertaining to orderly procedure
and decorum in debate. The President and all Commissioners shall be given a full opportunity to participate
in the debate on all debatable questions, except when the Board has called the previous question.
(o) Debate. No Commissioner shall speak longer than a total of ten minutes on the same question,
without leave of the Board. Responses by witnesses and County staff to questions of a Commissioner shall
not be counted against the speaking time allotted to such Commissioner. The proponent of the item under
consideration, or the Chairman of a committee whose report is under consideration, as the case may be,
shall have the right to open and close debate.
(p) Voting and roll call.
(1) When a question is put to the Board, every Commissioner present shall vote thereon, unless
excused by the Board or unless the Commissioner is personally interested therein and declares
a personal conflict of interest.
(2) If any Commissioner requests it, a roll call upon any question shall be taken and entered in the
Journal of Proceedings, but a roll call shall not be taken unless called for prior to, during or
immediately after any vote on the question.
(3) A roll call once ordered shall not be interrupted. When a roll call has commenced, all debate
on the question before the Board shall be deemed concluded. During the taking of the roll call,
Commissioners shall respond to the calling of their names by answering "yea," "nay," or
"present" and shall be allowed one minute to explain their votes at that time.
(4) When a roll call vote of the Board results in an equal number of "yea" votes and an equal
number of "nay" votes, the President of the Board of Commissioners may cast a vote on the
question before the Board. The President's vote may be in the affirmative, negative or present.
The President, when casting the deciding vote on an issue before the Board, may explain one's
vote in the same manner as a regular voting member of the Board.
(q) Submission of ordinances, resolutions and motions.
(1) All ordinances, resolutions, or motions, except motions of procedure, shall be submitted in
writing by the President or a Commissioner and then may be read by the Clerk at the direction
of the presiding officer or by leave of the Board. Each ordinance, resolution or motion, except
motions of procedure, shall be numbered by the Secretary to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in a method that includes:
a. The last two numbers of the year in which the ordinance, resolution or motion, except
motions of procedure, was introduced; and
b. A number that represents the chronological order.

Page 23 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(2) After an ordinance, resolution or motion has been stated by the presiding officer or read by the
Clerk, it shall be deemed the property of the Board and may be withdrawn at any time before
final action by leave of the Board.
(r) Division of questions. If any question presented contains several separable propositions, a demand
by any Commissioner or the President to "divide the question" shall be in order.
(s) Appeal from a ruling of the chair. Any Commissioner may appeal to the Board, committee or
subcommittee from a ruling of the Chair. The Commissioner making the appeal may briefly state the reason
for the appeal, and the Chair may briefly explain the ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and
no other member shall participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, "Shall the
decision of the Chair be sustained?" If a majority of the Commissioners present, and entitled to vote, vote
"nay," the decision of the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained. If sustained, the ruling
of the Chair shall be final.
(t) Personal privilege. The right of the President or a Commissioner to address the Board, a committee
or subcommittee on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which the President's or
Commissioner's integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
(u) Special order of business. Any item before the Board, committee or subcommittee and referenced
in an agenda provided to the President, the Commissioners and the public in accordance with these rules
may be set down as a special order of business at a time certain unless a majority of the Commissioners
present object.
(v) Entry of ordinances, resolutions or motions in journal. In all cases where an ordinance, resolution
or motion is entered in the Journal, the name of the Commissioner(s) moving and seconding the same shall
be entered also.
(w) Robert's Rules of Order. The rules of parliamentary practice set forth in "Robert's Rules of Order"
(Newly Revised, 10th Edition) by Henry M. Robert III et al. shall govern the Board in all cases in which
they are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this division.
(x) Motion to adjourn. A motion to adjourn is always in order except:
(1) When a Commissioner has the floor.
(2) When the roll is being called or the Commissioners are voting.
(3) When the previous motion was a motion to adjourn.
(4) When the "previous question" has been ordered.
(y) Putting and ordering the previous question. The "previous question" shall be put as follows: "Shall
the main question be now put?" If carried by a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners present and entitled
to vote, the "previous question" shall be ordered. An order for the "previous question" shall end all debate,
and bring the Board to a direct vote upon the options before the Board in the order of their precedence.
(z) Motion to reconsider.

Page 24 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(1) A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same meeting, or at the first
regular meeting held thereafter, but not after the matter has become law.
(2) A motion for reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
(3) A motion to reconsider must be made by a Commissioner who voted on the prevailing side of
the question to be reconsidered.
(4) This subsection does not apply to motions to override vetoes.
Sec. 2-106. Committees.
(a) Committees The committees of the Board shall be comprised of the following, except that
subcommittees may not create subcommittees:
(1)

Standing committees and their standing subcommittees as created by resolution of the Board;

(2)

Committees and subcommittees as created by resolution of the Board;

(3)

Committees and subcommittees as created by ordinance of the Board;

(4)

Special committees created by Board resolution; and

(5)

Special subcommittees created by standing committees or by special committees or by
resolution

(6)

Special committees and subcommittees created by ordinance of the Board;

(b) Meetings of committees and subcommittees:
(1) Committees and subcommittees shall hold meetings pursuant to a request of the Chairperson
of the committee or subcommittee and notice and agenda prepared by the Secretary. Meetings
shall be held at the County Seat, in the Board Room of the County Building, unless another
place within the County shall be designated by the Chairperson.
(2)

A committee or subcommittee meeting may be cancelled by the Chairperson by providing
no less than 24 hours' advance written notice that said meeting has been cancelled to the
Commissioners and to the public.

(c) Quorum. A majority of those elected (nine Commissioners) shall constitute a quorum for a meeting
of a committee of the whole. A majority of Commissioners appointed to any committee, other than a
committee of the whole, shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of such committee or subcommittee.
(d) Absence of quorum. Should a quorum not be present at a committee meeting of the Board, the
Commissioners present shall be competent to adjourn, receive public testimony but take no formal action
and/or recess the meeting to a date certain.

Page 25 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(e) Majority votes. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, and except for questions for which a
higher majority is required by law, all questions shall be determined by a majority vote of those
Commissioners entitled to vote. A vote of "present" shall not be counted in determining the number of
Commissioners voting on a question.
(f) Prior notice to public. No less than 72 business hours before any meeting of a committee or
subcommittee, notice and an agenda for such meeting shall be provided to the President, all Commissioners
and all news media that have requested notice of meetings, shall be posted in the Office of the County Clerk
and at the location where the meeting is to be held, and shall be made available to the public in the office
of the Secretary. New items posted to an agenda must be posted at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting
by the Board Secretary and at the location where the meeting is to be held in order for the Board to approve
the item; new items posted with less than 48 hours' notice must be withdrawn, deferred, or referred to
committee. In addition, notices and agendas of all meetings shall be posted on a County owned website.
(g) Public testimony. Subject to the provisions herein, public testimony will be permitted at committee
meetings of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who
have submitted in writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24
hours in advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony
at a time specified in the meeting agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time
and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony
shall not use vulgar, abusive or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act
appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time
requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future
testimony.
(h) Notice and Agendas. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered at the
meeting, Material pertinent to an item on a committee or subcommittee agenda shall be supplied, along
with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners, With the exception of materials that
are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the public in the office of the
Secretary.
(1)

Notwithstanding any other rules governing origination of items on the Board agenda,
including Subsection (o) of this Section, the following items types are permitted for origin
with their respective committees: Litigation Pending; Recommendations of the Zoning Board
of Appeals; Journals of Proceedings; Court Ordered Payments; Workers Compensations
Claims; Subrogation Recoveries; Self-Insurance Claims; Proposed Settlements; Patient
Arrestee Claims; Employee Injury Compensation Claims; Revenue Report; and the Cook
County Health And Hospitals System Monthly Report.

(2)

Amendments or Substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of a committee
or subcommittee shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24 hours in advance of the
meeting at which the item will be considered. Upon receipt of the amendment or substitute,
the Secretary shall immediately provide the amendment or substitute to the President, all
Commissioners and all news media that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be
posted in the Office of the County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to be held,
and shall be made available to the public in the office of the Secretary. This rule may be
waived for technical amendments or emergencies.

Page 26 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

(3)

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

Notwithstanding any action to be undertaken by committees or subcommittees pursuant to
this section, only the Board may take final action on any item referred to a committee or
subcommittee. Any item contained on a committee or subcommittee agenda, as properly
noticed pursuant to subsection (f) of this section, shall also be referenced on the next regularly
scheduled Board Meeting Agenda under the Committee Items Requiring Board Action for
purposes of consideration and possible action by the Board.

(i) Membership and officers of standing committees.
(1)

At the commencement of each term, the members of each standing committee and standing
subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution adopted by a majority of those
elected.

(2)

At the commencement of each term, the Chair and Vice-Chair of each standing committee
and standing subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution of the Board adopted
by a majority of those elected.

(3)

The President shall be an ex officio member of all committees.

(4)

Membership and officers of standing committees may be amended by resolution of the Board
adopted by a majority of those elected.

(j) Authority to call meetings The Chair of a committee or subcommittee shall have the authority to
call and preside at meetings of such committee or subcommittee. In the absence of the Chair, the ViceChair shall perform the functions of the Chair.
(k) Vacancies
(1) A vacancy on a committee, or in the Chair or Vice-Chair position on a committee, shall be
created when a member resigns from such position or ceases to be a Commissioner.
Resignations shall be made in writing to the Secretary, who shall promptly notify the President
and all Commissioners.
(2) Vacancies on committees or in the positions of Chair or Vice-Chair shall be filled by
appointment by the same appointing authority as the initial appointments to such committee.
In the case of committee appointments made by the Board, the Board shall fill vacancies by
resolution. In the case of vacancies on special subcommittees that were created by committees,
the parent committee shall fill the vacancy by motion.
(l) Participation in debate: Any Commissioner, regardless of whether a Chair, Vice-Chair or member
of the committee, and the President shall be afforded the courtesy of participating in debate on any item
before a committee.
(m) Special committees and subcommittees. The resolution or motion creating a special committee or
special subcommittee shall specify the subject matter of the special committee or subcommittee and the
number of members to be appointed thereto, and may specify a reporting date during the term in which
event the special committee or subcommittee shall be abolished as of such date. Unless an earlier date is
specified by resolution or motion, special committees and subcommittees shall expire at the end of the term.

Page 27 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(n) Standing committees. The standing committees, the standing subcommittees and the number of
members to be appointed to each (including Chair and Vice-Chair, but excluding ex officio members) are
as follows:
(1)

Audit, seven members. (The County Auditor and Chief Financial Officer are ex officio,
nonvoting members of the Audit Committee.)

(2)

Asset Management, nine members.

(3)

Business and Economic Development, nine members.

(4)

Contract Compliance, nine members.

(5)

Criminal Justice, Committee of the Whole.

(6)

Environmental Control, seven members.

(7)

Finance, Committee of the Whole, with the following subcommittees with the number of
members indicated:
a. Litigation, seven members.
b. Tax Delinquency, five members.
c. Workers' Compensation, five members.

(8)

Health and Hospitals, Committee of the Whole.

(9)

Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Committee of the Whole.

(10) Human Relations, seven members.
(11) Labor, nine members.
(12) Law Enforcement, seven members.
(13) Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations, Committee of the Whole.
(14) Pension, seven members.
(15) Roads and Bridges, Committee of the Whole.
(16) Rules and Administration, nine members.
(17) Technology and Innovation, nine members.

Page 28 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

(18) Veterans, seven members.
(19) Workforce, Housing and Community Development, five members.
(20) Zoning and Building, Committee of the Whole.
(o) Referrals to committees. The Board may by motion refer any item before the Board to a Committee
or to a subcommittee. The Chair of a committee may refer an item pending in that committee to a
subcommittee of that committee. An item referred by the Board to any committee or subcommittee, or by
a committee chair to a subcommittee, shall not be jointly referred to any other committee or subcommittee.
Only upon the return of the item to the Board, either by report of the committee or by the Board's discharge
of the item from the committee or subcommittee, may the Board refer the item to another committee or
subcommittee.
Any item that creates a new Ordinance or amends an existing section or sections of the Code shall be
referred to a committee or subcommittee upon its initial introduction to the Board. Upon referral, the
committee shall hold a hearing on the item. Following the hearing, the item shall be reported to the Board
or discharged by the committee or subcommittee. The Board may vote for immediate consideration of the
item by a majority vote.
All items referred to committee or subcommittee by the Board shall be designated with a
Communication Number as assigned by the Secretary to the Cook County Board of Commissioners. No
committee or subcommittee shall meet for any purpose other than to consider one or more items designated
by Communication Numbers.
(p) Committee Deliberation and Reporting.
Upon the completion of deliberations by a committee or subcommittee on an item referred to it, a
committee or subcommittee in conjunction with the Secretary to the Board shall inform the members of the
actions of the committee or subcommittee on the item to their parent committee or to the Board.
Specifically, action is defined as motions, duly seconded and carried, to adopt one of the six (6) following
statements of intent with respect to an item:
(1) Approve;
(2) Approve as Amended;
(3) Not Approve;
(4) Not Approve as Amended;
(5) Receive and File; and
(6) Returned With No Recommendation.

Page 29 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

The committee's adoption of any one of the above six statements of intent shall constitute conclusive
action by the committee on an item, and shall automatically discharge the committee from further
jurisdiction of the item. Absent the attachment of one of these six statements of intent to the Communication
Numbered item, such item will remain in committee unless discharged by the Board, or until the item is
received and filed pursuant to Rule 2-104(b).
A committee or subcommittee may also inform the members that action by the committee or
subcommittee was deferred, referred to a subcommittee or special subcommittee or otherwise inconclusive.
(q) Committee Meeting Minutes. Prior to the next scheduled meeting of the committee or
subcommittee, the Secretary shall prepare the minutes of the meeting. The minutes shall contain: a list of
the attendees; an account of the items considered; a summary of the deliberations, including motions and
amendments proposed and/or adopted; all votes taken; the result of said votes; and, any attachments to the
record as ordered by the Chair. The minutes of a meeting may be created and preserved in an electronic
format on a publicly available County owned website as maintained by the Secretary.
(r) Public Hearings of committees. Any committee meeting may, at the discretion of the Chair, be
designated as a public hearing; provided that the following requirements are satisfied:
(1)A paid notice containing the time, place, subject matter of the hearing, and solicitation of pertinent
public testimony shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Cook County;
(2) A like notice shall be posted on the County owned website maintained by the Secretary;
(3) A court reporter is present and reporting all written and oral testimony by members of the public;
(4) All oral testimony by members of the public shall be the first order of business after the committee
is called to order; and
(5) Any other meeting notification requirements found elsewhere in this section.
(s) Discharge of committee item by the Board. The Board may discharge any item from committee by
a majority vote.
Sec. 2-107—2-140. - Reserved.
Approved and adopted this 10th of December 2014.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Ordinance
be approved. The motion carried.

Page 30 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

15-0634
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT, LUIS ARROYO JR,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, STANLEY MOORE,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN
AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE AND CHAIRS AND VICE-CHAIRS
OF THE STANDING COMMITTEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES
BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, that
the following Commissioners are designated and appointed as President Pro Tempore and as Chairpersons
and Vice-Chairpersons of the Standing Committees and Subcommittees of the Board.
Section 1.

The President Pro Tempore of the Cook County Board shall be Commissioner Steele.

Section 2.

The Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons of the Committees (identified by all capital letters)
and of the Subcommittees (identified by initial capital letters) of the Cook County Board shall
be as follows:

ASSET MANAGEMENT (9 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Murphy
Butler

AUDIT (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Daley
Goslin

BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (9 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Garcia
Murphy

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE (9 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Steele
Silvestri

CRIMINAL JUSTICE (Committee of the Whole)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Garcia
Moore

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Gorman
Steele

FINANCE (Committee of the Whole)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Daley
Sims

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Silvestri
Fritchey

Litigation (7 members)

Page 31 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

Tax Delinquency (5 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Sims
Goslin

Workers’ Compensation (5 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Schneider
Tobolski Arroyo

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Butler
Steele

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Tobolski
Gainer

HUMAN RELATIONS (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Boykin
Silvestri

LABOR (9 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Murphy
Tobolski

LAW ENFORCEMENT (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Moore
Silvestri

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Suffredin
Fritchey

PENSION (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Gainer
Goslin

ROADS AND BRIDGES (Committee of the Whole)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Sims
Gorman

RULES AND ADMINISTRATION (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Suffredin
Gorman

TECHNOLOGY (9 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Fritchey
Gorman

VETERANS (7 members)

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Tobolski
Moore

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Gainer
Boykin

Chair:
Vice-Chair:

Silvestri
Murphy

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS (Committee of the Whole)

COOK COUNTY HOMELAND SECURITY AND
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (Committee of the Whole)

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS (Committee of the Whole)

WORKFORCE, HOUSING, AND
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (5 members)

ZONING AND BUILDING (Committee of the Whole)

NOW, THEREFORE, WE, the Cook County Board of Commissioners do hereby approve this Resolution.

Page 32 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

Approved and adopted this 10th of December 2014.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Resolution
be approved as amended. Commissioner Fritchey called for a roll call, the vote of yeas and nays
being as follows:
ROLL CALL ON MOTION TO APPROVE AS AMENDED
Yeas:

Commissioners Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (13)

Nays:

Commissioner Fritchey (1)

Absent:

Commissioners Butler, Gainer and Suffredin (3)

The motion carried and the Resolution was APPROVED AS AMENDED.
15-0635
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE, PRESIDENT, LUIS ARROYO JR,
RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JERRY BUTLER, JOHN P. DALEY, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, STANLEY MOORE,
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT B. STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN
AND JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
THE STANDING COMMITEES AND SUBCOMMITTEES
WHEREAS, the Standing Committees and Subcommittees of the Cook County Board, as well as the
number of Members and Chair and Vice-Chair of each, have already been established; now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, that
the following Commissioners are designated and appointed as Members of the Committees (identified by
all capital letters) and Subcommittees (identified by initial capital letters) of the Cook County Board in
addition to the Chair and Vice-Chair of the respective Committees and Subcommittees:

Page 33 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

ASSET MANAGEMENT

Members:

Murphy
Butler
Garcia
Gorman
Schneider
Silvestri
Sims
Steele
Tobolski

AUDIT

Members:

Daley
Goslin
Arroyo
Butler
Gainer
Gorman
Schneider

BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Members:

Garcia
Murphy
Arroyo
Butler
Gainer
Gorman
Moore
Schneider
Steele

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

Members:

Steele
Silvestri
Arroyo
Butler
Garcia
Moore
Murphy
Sims
Tobolski

CRIMINAL JUSTICE

Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL

Members:

Gorman
Steele
Boykin
Gainer
Murphy
Schneider
Silvestri

Page 34 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

FINANCE

December 10, 2014
Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

Litigation

Members:

Silvestri
Fritchey
Boykin
Gainer
Schneider
Suffredin
Tobolski

Tax Delinquency

Members:

Sims
Goslin
Butler
Murphy
Tobolski

Workers’ Compensation

Members:

Schneider
Tobolski
Arroyo
Goslin
Moore

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS

Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

COOK COUNTY HOMELAND SECURITY AND
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

HUMAN RELATIONS

Members:

Boykin
Silvestri
Arroyo
Fritchey
Sims
Steele
Suffredin

LABOR

Members:

Murphy
Tobolski
Arroyo
Butler
Fritchey
Gainer
Garcia
Moore
Sims

Page 35 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

LAW ENFORCEMENT

Members:

Moore
Silvestri
Arroyo
Butler
Fritchey
Goslin
Tobolski

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL
RELATIONS

Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

PENSION

Members:

Gainer
Goslin
Murphy
Schneider
Steele
Suffredin
Tobolski

ROADS AND BRIDGES

Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

RULES AND ADMINISTRATION

Members:

Suffredin
Gorman
Daley
Fritchey
Gainer
Schneider
Silvestri
Sims
Steele

TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION

Members:

Fritchey
Gorman
Butler
Daley
Garcia
Goslin
Schneider
Silvestri
Steele

VETERANS

Members:

Tobolski
Moore
Arroyo
Boykin
Daley
Schneider
Suffredin

Page 36 of 37

 Board of Commissioners

JOURNAL

December 10, 2014

WORKFORCE, HOUSING, AND
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

Members:

Gainer
Boykin
Sims
Suffredin
Tobolski

ZONING AND BUILDING

Members:

All Commissioners,
including the Chair
and Vice-Chair

NOW, THEREFORE, WE, the Cook County Board of Commissioners do hereby approve this Resolution.
Approved and adopted this 10th of December 2014.
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners
Attest: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
_________________________
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Sims, that this Resolution
be approved. The motion carried.
Commissioner Fritchey voted “No”.
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that the meeting do
now adjourn to meet again at the same time and same place on December 17, 2014, in accordance
with County Board Resolution 14-0007.
The motion prevailed and the meeting stood adjourned.
________________________

DAVID ORR, County Clerk

Page 37 of 37

 