 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

9:00 AM
Wednesday, December 13, 2017 Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (13)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (4)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
There were no public speakers
18-1052

COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 1 1/15/2017

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Gainer, to approve
18-1052. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (l3)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (4)
17-6208

Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, DENNIS
DEER, BRIDGET GAINER, JESUS G. GARCIA, EDWARD M. MOODY, STANLEY MOORE,
SEAN M. MORRISON, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI,
Cook County Board Of Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

REQUESTING TO PRESENT AN ADVISORY PUBLIC QUESTION VIA A COUNTYWIDE
Page 1 0f 10

REFERENDUM TO COOK COUNTY VOTERS ON WHETHER THE STATE OF ILLINOIS

SHOULD LEGALIZE, REGULATE AND TAX RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA USE FOR
ADULTS 21 AND OVER

WHEREAS, Pursuant to the Illinois Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/28-1, et seq., and the Counties Code, 55
ILCS the corporate authorities of a county have the authority to submit a public question to
the electors of the county by means of a referendum; and

WHEREAS, despite spending more than $1 Trillion over the last 40 years, the efforts of the ?War on
Drugs?, the health and social costs of drugs increase every year, drugs are no less available than before,
and treatment is not available to the vast majority of people who need it; and

WHEREAS, existing evidence from other states and countries show there is no indication that
decriminalization or legalization of marijuana leads to a measurable increase in its use; and

WHEREAS, eight states and Washington DC. have already legalized the recreational use of marijuana;
and

WHEREAS, marijuana?related arrests in every Cook County municipality, including Chicago, result in
staggering costs to Cook County government by virtue of the necessary involvement of the County jail,
Sheriff?s department, State?s Attorney, Clerk of the Court,judiciary, and often times, the Public Defender,
annually costing Cook County taxpayers tens of millions of dollars; and

WHEREAS, most arrests for marijuana possession do not lead to trials or prison terms. Instead, a large
number of these arrests are plea-bargained, continued without a finding, dismissed, or otherwise handled
in a manner that places unnecessary burdens on already-limited criminal justice system resources; and

WHEREAS, as Illinois and Cook County continually face severe budget and financial constraints and
lawmakers repeatedly face the undesirable choice of deciding between increasing taxes or substantial
service cuts, or both, creating an intelligent, practical framework of cannabis legalization, regulation and
taxation can help address a myriad of problems such as improved health and public safety, reduced
criminal justice and jail costs, law enforcement ef?cacy, black market drug displacement as well as
increased revenue for education and treatment protocols; and 

WHEREAS, legalizing, regulating and taxing recreational marijuana use for adults 21 and over and
would have an estimated revenue impact of $350 to $699 million at the state level and would also have a

positive multi-million dollar impact for Cook County via sales tax proceeds and other public and private
revenue streams; and

WHEREAS, a recent 2017 Gallup poll has shown that 64% of Americans are in favor of legalizing
marijuana; and

WHEREAS, a recent 2017 poll conducted by the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute finds that two?thirds
of Illinois voters, support or strongly support legalization of recreational marijuana if it is taxed and
regulated like alcohol, and in Chicago, 74 percent of voters support or strongly support legalization of
marijuana while in suburban Cook and the collar counties support or strong support is at 70 percent; and

WHEREAS, 55 ILCS 5/5- 1 005 .5 states, ?By a vote of the majority of the members of the county board,
the board may authorize an advisory question of public policy to be placed on the ballot at the next

Page 2 of 10

regularly scheduled election in the county?; and

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners seeks to place an advisory public question
before the electorate via a referendum on the March 20, 2018, countywide ballot seeking to ask Cook
County residents if they are in favor of legalizing, regulating and taxing recreational marijuana use for
adults 21 and over in Illinois, as follows:

?Shall the State of Illinois legalize the cultivation, manufacture, distribution, testing, and sale of
marijuana and marijuana products for recreational use by adults 21 and older subject to state
regulation, taxation and local ordinance?"

Yes
N0
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that this
Board present the aforementioned question to the electorate via a countywide advisory referendum on the
March 20, 2018 ballot;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Clerk shall certify the public question
referenced herein and noti?es the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General of this request for action
in accordance with Article 28 of the Election Code.

Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption.

A motion was made by Vice Chairman ritchey, seconded by Commissioner Boykin, to
recommend for approval 17-6208. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (l3)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri 
17-6302

Sponsored by: DENNIS DEER, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, LARRY SUFFREDIN, BRIDGET
GAINER, LUIS ARROYO JR, JESUS G. GARCIA, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, EDWARD M.
MOODY, DEBORAH SIMS, JOHN P. DALEY, SEAN M. MORRISON and PETER N. SILVESTRI,
Cook County Board Of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO PREVENT SEXUAL HARRASSMENT IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, Cook County has zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace; and

WHEREAS, in recent weeks there has been an outpouring of complaints of sexual harassment within
Illinois government and political activities; and

Page 3 of IO

WHEREAS, inspired by the #MeToo social media campaign that encouraged individuals to raise
awareness about sexual harassment, women in the Illinois Legislature created the #ILSayNoMore
hashtag which encouraged individuals to share their experiences of sexual harassment within the State
Capitol and Illinois politics and

WHEREAS, more than 200 peeple signed onto an open letter circulated by women involved in Illinois
politics that called for ?challenging every elected official, every candidate, and every participant in our
democratic process who is culpable?; and

WHEREAS, sexual harassment thrives in silence, all stakeholders need to continually work to eliminate
all forms of sexual harassment; and

WHEREAS, sexual harassment and abuse of power is toxic and unacceptable in the workplace and will
not be tolerated; and

WHERESAS, Cook County is committed to providing a workplace that is free from sexual harassment;
and

WHEREAS, all persons have a right to feel safe and work in an environment free from sexual
harassment; and

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Cook County reinforces its policy of zero tolerance for sexual
harassment and the Cook County Board of Commissioners encourages all of the separately elected Cook
County of?ces to adopt a zero tolerance policy for sexual harassment within their own of?ces; and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Cook County recognizes the rights of all
employees to be treated with respect and dignity and is committed to providing a work environment free
of sexual harassment for all of its employees.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 42 - Human Relations,
Article II. - Human Rights, Section 42-34 - Commission on Human Rights. is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 42-31. - De?nitions.

Religion means all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well as belief, or the actual
identification with or perceived identification with a religion.

Sexual Harassment. The term ?Sexual Harassment? shall mean unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual and physical conduct of a sexual nature. Sexual

Harassment includes, but is not limited to:

l. Verbal harassment (lewd or suggestive remarks, sexual language, pranks, epithets, derogatory
statements, iokes, threats, slurs and/or demands for dates);

2. Physical harassment (touching, patting, pinching or brushing against another?s body);

Page 4 of 10

3. Visual harassment (posters, cartoons, gross or lewd gestures, calendars, pictures, drawings,
greeting cards or leering);

4. Sexual innuendo and demands for sexual favors (unwelcome sexual statements or advances);

5. Sexual harassment includes any form of sexually oriented conduct regardless of whether it occurs
face-to?face, in writing, on the telephone, by electronic mail, via the lntemet, or by some indirect form of
communication?, or

6. Sexual harassment may involve individuals of the same or different gender and is prohibited
whether directed toward men or women.

Sexual orientation means the status or expression, whether actual or perceived, of heterosexuality,
homosexuality, or bisexuality.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 -

Human Resources, Article 11. Personnel Policies. Section 44?58 Sexual Harassment Training. is hereby
established as follows:

Sec. 44-58. - Sexual Harassment Training.

a)Each of?cial and employee of Cook County must complete, at least annually, beginning in 2018, a
sexual harassment training program conducted by the Bureau of Human Resources. The sexual
harassment training program shall be overseen by the Department of Ethics and the Of?ce of the
Independent Inspector General.

b)The Bureau of Human Resources shall submit to the Board quarterly reports that summarizes
sexual
harassment training that was completed during the previous quarter, the number of participants in those
training and lays out the plan for the sexual harassment training programs in the coming quarter.

c} A person who fills a vacancy in any position in the County, including elective and appointed positions,
must complete his or her initial sexual harassment training within 30 days after the commencement of his
or her of?ce or employment.

d) Sexual Harassment Training shall minimally include but not be limited to; de?nition of sexual
harassment, different types of sexual harassment, harassment by a person in authority towards a
subordinate, examples of workplace sexual harassment, steps to filing a complaint, what sexual
harassment is not, hostile work environments.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 -
Administration, Article VII. Ethics, Division 3. - Lobbyists, Subdivision II.-Registration, Section
2-640. -

Lobbyist Ethics Education Seminar is hereby amended as follows:

Page 5 of 10

Sec. 2-640. - Lobbyist Ethics Education Seminar.

Each Lobbyist shall attend an online ethics education seminar offered on a regular basis by the Cook
County Clerk and the Board of Ethics within 120 days of registering as a Lobbyist pursuant to Section
2-633. The seminar shall educate Persons as to their duties and responsibilities under this article. 
seminar shall include a program of sexual harassment training in the context of lobbying activities and
review pertinent provisions under Article II of the Cook County Code, the Cook County Human Rights
Ordinance. The Clerk may partner with the Bureau of Human Resources or other applicable Department
of Cook County to facilitate the provision of the sexual harassment training. For purposes of this section,
the definition of ?Sexual Harassment? includes, but is not limited to, the de?nitions set forth in the Cook
County Human Rights Ordinance, Section 42-30 et. seq. of the Cook CountyCode.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
MOTION TO SUSPEND RULES TO TAKE UP 2ND SUBSTITUTE

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to suspend rules
to take up substitute. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (l3)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (4)

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to accept as
substituted 17-6302. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (i3)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (4)

SECOND PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE T0 17-6302

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO PREVENT SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, Cook County prohibits sexual harassment in the workplace; and

WHEREAS, in recent weeks there has been an outpouring of complaints of sexual harassment within
Illinois government and political activities; and

Page 6 of 10

WHEREAS, inspired by the #MeToo social media campaign that encouraged individuals to raise
awareness about sexual harassment, women in the Illinois Legislature created the #ILSayNoMore that

encouraged individuals to share their experiences of sexual harassment within the State Capitol and Illinois
politics; and

WHEREAS, more than 200 people signed an open letter circulated by women involved in Illinois politics

that called for ?challenging every elected of?cial, every candidate, and every participant in our democratic
process who is culpable?; and

WHEREAS, sexual harassment thrives in silence, such that all stakeholders need to continually work to
eliminate all forms of sexual harassment; and

WHEREAS, sexual harassment and abuse of power are toxic and unacceptable in the workplace and will
not be tolerated; and

WHEREAS, Cook County is committed to providing a workplace that is free from sexual harassment; and

WHEREAS, all persons have a right to feel safe and work in an environment free from sexual harassment;
and

WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 100?554 requires the timely adoption of an ordinance or resolution by all
units of government in Illinois establishing a policy to prohibit sexual harassment; and

WHEREAS, Cook County?s existing policies prohibiting sexual harassment should be expanded to include
additional protections and codi?ed in an ordinance;

THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, that Cook County reinforces its policy of prohibiting sexual
harassment and the Cook County Board of Commissioners encourages all of the separately elected Cook

County of?ces to adopt a policy addressing the prohibition of sexual harassment within their own of?ces;
and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that Cook County recognizes the rights of all

employees of Cook County government to be treated with respect and dignity and is committed to providing
a work environment free of sexual harassment.

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 - Human Resources,
Article 11 -Personnel Policies, Section 44?53 Nondiscrimination is hereby amended as follows:

Section 44-53 - Nondiserm?natien? Prohibition of Discrimination and Harassment.

No person shall discriminate against any County employee or applicant for County employment because
of race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status,
parental status, military discharge status, source of income, housing, or any other protected category
established by law, statute or ordinance.

Each Cook County Agency (Of?ce of the President/ Board of Commissioners; Cook County Assessor;
Cook County Board of Review; Cook County Clerk; Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County; Cook
County Recorder of Deeds; Cook County Sheriff; Cook County State?s Attorney; Of?ce of the Chief Judge;

Page 7 of 10

Cook County Treasurer; Cook County Land Bank; Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Of?ce of
the Independent Inspector General; and Public Administrator) shall adopt policies that prohibit
discrimination and harassment, includingt_he prohibition of sexual harassment.

l. The nondiscrimination and anti-harassment policy(ies] adopted shall include, at minimum: a
prohibition on discrimination based upon one?s race, color, sex, age, religion, disability, national
origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge status,
source of incomeL housing, or any other protected category established by law, statute or
ordinance (ii) a prohibition on Sexual Harassment by of?cials and employees under their
iurisdiction; details on how an individual can report an allegation of discrimination or
Sexual Harassment, including options for making a con?dential report to a supervisor, the Cook
County Board of Ethics, the Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General, the Equal Employment
Opportunity Of?ce, the Cook County Commission on Human Rights or any other appropriate
County, State or federal agency; (iv) a prohibition on retaliation for reporting discrimination or
Sexual Harassment allegations, including availability of whistleblower protections under the
State Of?cials and Employees Ethics Act, the Illinois Whistleblower Act, the Illinois Human
Rights Act, the Cook County Ethics Ordinance, the Cook County Human Rights Ordinance, the
Cook County Inspector General Ordinance and any other applicable County, State or federal
law; and the consequences of a violation of the prohibition of discrimination or Sexual
Harassment and the consequences of knowingly making a false report.

2. The non?discrimination and anti?harassment policy(ies) shall be formulated by each elected or
appointed of?cial for the Agency he or she oversees in collaboration with the Cook County
Bureau of Human Resources and the Cook County Department of Human Rights and Ethics.
Compliance with the implementation and execution of this section shall be monitored by the
Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General.

3. Each Agency?s elected or appointed of?cial or designee shall submit to the Of?ce of the
Independent Inspector General quarterly reports that summarize progress towards formulating
a policy(ies) that addresses the prohibition of discrimination and harassment, including the
prohibition of Sexual Harassment during the previous quarter. The Of?ce of the Independent
Inspector General shall compile these reports and submit them to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General shall report to the Board any noncompliance
with the obligations set out in this section. The Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General
shall inform the Board as to which Cook County Agencies are in comriiance with Section 44-
53 and upon a determination of compliance by the Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General,
the compliant Agency shall no longer be required to submit quarterly updates.

(0) For the purpose of Section 44-53, Sexual Harassment means any unwelcome sexual advance, request
for sexual favors or other verbal, visual or physical conduct of a sexual nature regardless of gender. Sexual

Harassment includes, but is not limited to:

I. Verbal harassment (6.2., lewd or sexually suggestive remarks, pranks, epithets, iokes. threats or
slurs 

2. Physical harassment (ag, touching, patting, pinching or intentionally brushing against another?s

body 

Page 8 of IO

3. Visual harassment (6.22, leering, making sexual gestures, or displaying or sending lewd or
sexually suggestive posters, cartoons, pictures, drawings or obiects);

4. Sexual innuendo and demands for sexual favors leg, unwelcome sexual statements or

advances l; or

5. Any form of unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors or other verbal, visual or
physical conduct of a sexual nature regardless of whether it occurs face-to-face, in writing, on
the telephone, by electronic mail, via the Internet, or by some indirect form of communication.

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 44 Human
Resources, Article II. - Personnel Policies. Section 44?58 - Sexual Harassment Training is hereby
established as follows:

Sec. 44-58. - Sexual Harassment Training.

Each of?cial and employee of a Cook County Agency (Office of the President/Board of
Commissioners; Cook County Assessor; Cook County Board of Review; Cook County Clerk; Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Cook County; Cook County Recorder of Deeds; Cook County Sheriff; Cook County State's
Attorney; Of?ce of the Chief Judge; Cook County Treasurer; Cook County Land Bank; Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General; and Public Administrator) must
complete, at least annually, beginning in 2018, a sexual harassment training program. This sexual
harassment training program shall be formulated by each Agency in collaboration with the Cook County
Bureau of Human Resources and the Department of Human Rights and Ethics. The human resources
of?ces or designee of the appointed or elected Agency of?cial shall deliver this training to of?cials and
employees under the applicable Agency iurisdiction. Compliance with the sexual harassment training
program shall be monitored by the Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General.

The human resources of?ces or designee of the appointed or elected Cook County Agency
of?cial shall submit to the Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General quarterly reports that: 1) summarize
progress towards formulating a sexual harassment training during the previous quarter, the number of
training session(s) delivered, and the number of participants in those training sessionts); and (2) lay out the
plan for the sexual harassment training programs in the coming quarter. The Of?ce of the Independent
Inspector General shall compile these reports and submit them to the Board on a quarterly basis. The
Of?ce of the Independent Inspector General shall report to the Board any noncompliance with the training
obligations set out in this section.

Any person who ?lls a vacancy in any position in a Cook County Agency, including elective
and appointed positions, must complete his or her initial sexual harassment training within 90 days after
the commencement of his or her of?ce or employment.

Sexual Harassment Training shall minimally include but not be limited to: a de?nition of sexual
harassment, various types of sexual harassment, harassment by a person in authority towards a subordinate,
examples of workplace sexual harassment, steps to ?ling a complaint, examples of actions that do and do
not constitute sexual harassment and hostile work environments.

Page 9 of 10

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 -
Administration, Article VII. - Ethics, Division 3. - Lobbyists, Subdivision Il.?Registration, Section 2-640.
Lobbyist Ethics Education Seminar is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 2-640. - Lobbyist Ethics Education Seminar.

Each Lobbyist shall attend an online ethics education seminar offered on a regular basis by the Cook County
Clerk and the Board of Ethics within 120 days of registering as a Lobbyist pursuant to Section 2?633. The
seminar shall educate individuals regarding their duties and responsibilities under this article. The seminar
shall also include a program of sexual harassment training in the context of lobbying activities and review
pertinent provisions under Chapter 42, Article II ofthe Cook County Code, the Cook County Human Rights
Ordinance. The Clerk may partner with the Cook County Department of Human Rights and Ethics and/or
other applicable Department of Cook County to facilitate the provision of the sexual harassment training.
For purposes of this section, the de?nition of ?sexual harassment? includes, but is not limited to, the
de?nitions set forth in Section 44?53 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

Effective date: This ordinance shall be effective January 17, 2018.

A motion was made by Commissioner Deer, seconded by Commissioner Morrison, to
recommend for approval as substituted 17-6302. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (13)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (4)

LEAVE WAS GRANTED TO ADD ALL PRESENT AS COSPONSORS

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Suffredin, Fritchey, Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Deer, Gainer, Garcia, Goslin, Moore,
Morrison, Sims and Tobolski (13)
Absent: Butler, Moody, Schneider and Silvestri (4)

Respectfully submitted,

a, 
gilt/g ?5

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 10 of 10

