Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee
Wednesday, June 26, 2019

11:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-4151
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 02/21/2019
19-0768
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

LARRY

SUFFREDIN

and

STANLEY

MOORE,

Cook

County

Board

of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ARTICLE III. - CHARITABLE ROTATING CRIMINAL BOND FUNDS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 18 COURTS,
ARTICLE III. - CHARITABLE ROTATING CRIMINAL BOND FUNDS, SECTION NUMBER(S)

Page 1 of 3

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2019

18-45 - 18-50, of the Cook County Code is hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 18-45. - Definitions

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Charitable Bond Fund means a not-for-profit 501c3, as defined by the Internal Revenue
Service, organization that uses its funds to post bond for individuals who are detained at the Cook County
Jail.
Sec. 18-46. - Eligibility for representation by the Public Defender’s Office

A criminal defendant whose deposit or cash bond is posted by a Charitable Bond Fund shall not be
deemed ineligible for representation by the Cook County Public Defender’s Office.
Sec. 18-47. - Charitable Bond Fund bond ineligible for bail assignment or attorney’s fees

Any bonds posted by a Charitable Bond Fund shall not be used to pay attorney’s fees.
Sec. 18-48. - Fees

The Clerk of the Court shall not deduct any fees, court costs, or penalties from bond funds that were
posted by a Charitable Bond Fund and at the conclusion of the case shall return available funds to the
Charitable Bond Fund.
Sec. 18-49. - Forfeiture

In the instance where bond is posted by a Charitable Bond Fund and a judgment of forfeiture is
ordered in favor of the state, no part of the amount deposited by the Charitable Bond Fund shall be
forfeited to the state.
Sec. 18-50. - Return of Funds

The Clerk of the Court shall return bond monies posted by Charitable Bond Funds immediately. The
funds shall be returned via direct deposit.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

12/12/18 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Criminal Justice Committee

Page 2 of 3

 Criminal Justice Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: Johnson
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

June 26, 2019

 