Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Public Hearing

Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia Horton, Chairman of Finance Gloria
Alitto Majewski, Commissioner Barbara J. McGowan, Vice-President Kathleen Therese
Meany, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, President Terrence J.
O'Brien
Thursday, January 8, 2009

9:30 AM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President O' Brien presiding, called the Public Hearing to order at 9:30 a.m.

Roll Call
Present:

7 - Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Gloria Alitto Majewski; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Debra Shore; and Terrence J. O'Brien

Absent:

1 - Cynthia M. Santos

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Printed on 2/19/2009

 Public Hearing

1

08-2581

Meeting Minutes

January 8, 2009

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (the ”District”) will hold a public
hearing at 9:30 a.m. on the 8th day of January 2009 in the Board Room in the
Administrative Offices of the District, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the hearing will be to receive public comments on the
intention of the Board of Commissioners of the District to issue not to exceed
$258,000,000 General Obligation Capital Improvement Bonds to provide
funds required for the replacing, remodeling, completing, altering,
constructing and enlarging of sewage treatment works or flood control
facilities, and additions therefore, including, but not limited to, the construction
of pumping stations, tunnels, conduits, intercepting sewers and outlet
sewers, together with the equipment, including air pollution equipment, and
appurtenances thereto, to acquire property, real, personal or mixed,
necessary for said purposes, and for costs and expenses for the acquisition
of the sites and rights-of-way necessary thereto, and for engineering
expenses for designing and supervising the construction of such works and
other related and incidental expenses.
By order of Terrence J. O’Brien, the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago.
Dated the 17th day of December 2008.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
A motion was made by Gloria Alitto Majewski, seconded by Barbara J.
McGowan, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

2

08-2614

Report to the Board of Commissioners on the District’s intention to issue
Capital Improvement Bonds in an amount not to exceed $258,000,000
A motion was made by Gloria Alitto Majewski, seconded by Barbara J.
McGowan, that this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays

Public Comment
George Blakemore, a concerned citizen, questioned whether capital improvement
projects should be funded through issuing bonds. He suggested that governments
use cash reserves to pay for these projects.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Gloria Alitto Majewski, seconded by Kathleen Therese
Meany, that this meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following
roll call vote:
Aye:

7-

Patricia Horton; Gloria Alitto Majewski; Barbara J. McGowan; Kathleen
Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Terrence J. O'Brien

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

Printed on 2/19/2009

 Public Hearing

Meeting Minutes
Absent:

1-

January 8, 2009

Frank Avila

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 3

Printed on 2/19/2009

 