Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Special Meeting
Commissioner Michael A. Alvarez, Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia
Horton, Vice- President Barbara J. McGowan, Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany,
Chairman of Finance Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos, President Terrence J. O'Brien
Tuesday, June 7, 2011

1:00 PM

Board Room

Call Meeting to Order
President Terrence J. O'Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 12:55
p.m.

Roll Call
Present:

9 - Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; and Terrence J. O'Brien

Clerk to Read Call of the Meeting
1

11-0740

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
At the direction of Commissioners Michael A. Alvarez, Cynthia M. Santos,
and Debra Shore, there will be a Special Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago on Tuesday, June 7, 2011, immediately following the study session,
in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The purpose of the Special Meeting is to discuss the District's response to
the latest ruling by the Illinois Pollution Control Board and to provide policy
direction to staff on disinfection.

/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Frank Avila, seconded by Kathleen Therese Meany, that
this Report be Published and Filed. The motion carried by acclamation.
Chorus of ayes - No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

 Special Meeting

2

11-0744

Meeting Minutes

June 7, 2011

MOTION to adopt a policy whereby the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago will disinfect the effluent discharged from its
North Side and Calumet Water Reclamation Plants
Barbara J. McGowan lifted her deferral on Agenda Item #57, File ID #11-0737 of the
June 2, 2011 Board Meeting.
A motion was made by Cynthia M. Santos, seconded by Patricia Horton, that
this Motion be Adopted. The motion carried by the following roll call vote:
Aye:

8-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos

Nay:

1-

Terrence J. O'Brien

Summary of Request
Frank Avila requested a study session to discuss nutrient removal.

Open Discussion
Fredric Andes, Barnes and Thornburg LLP, explained various actions in the rule
making currently pending before the Illinois Pollution Control Board.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Barbara J. McGowan, seconded by Frank Avila, that this
Special Meeting be Adjourned. The motion carried by the following roll call
vote:
/s/ Jacqueline Torres, Clerk
Aye:

9-

Michael A. Alvarez; Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Mariyana T.
Spyropoulos; Terrence J. O'Brien

APPROVAL:
In accordance with the provisions of 70ILCS 2605/4, each of the
foregoing agenda items duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago this June
7, 2011, are hereby approved.
APPROVED:
/s/ Terrence J. O’Brien
President Board of Commissioners of the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
June 7, 2011

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

 