STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on October 9, 2007
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 11:00 A.M.—160 North LaSalle Street, Suite S-400, Chicago, IL

II.

PRESENT

Jackie Gallagher, Chairman; Michael Coli, Member of the Board; Charles Hernandez, Member of the Board;
Michael Hade, Member of the Board; Rex Piper, Member of the Board; John F. Brosnan, Executive Director;
and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD AUGUST 14, 2007

Chairman Gallagher called for approval of the minutes of the August 14, 2007 meeting. Member Piper
moved to approve the minutes. Member Coli seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a
voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher asked Executive Director Brosnan to present the State Panel administrative actions for
the period of time from August 1 through September 30, 2007. He distributed the report to the Board and
summarized its highlights. The Board examined the report and discussed it.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
Case No. S-CA-05-131
1.
Laborers' International Union of North America/Kankakee Valley Park District

Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
Wells' Recommended Decision and Order (RDO), and asked whether the Board wished to review the
decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
2.
Case No. S-CB-06-007
County of DeKalb/DeKalb County Sheriff/Metropolitan Alliance of Police, Chapter 318
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
3.
Case No. S-RC-06-197
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 134/Village of Frankfort
Chairman Gallagher called the case, noting that no party filed exceptions to the ALJ's RDO, and asked
whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-CA-07-159
Waukegan Police Labor Committee, Lodge 5/City of Waukegan
Chairman Gallagher summarized the case, noting that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on August
27, 2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the appeal
and recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal, as there was no issue of law or fact raised therein to

 V.

BOARD ACTIONS (Continued)

warrant an evidentiary hearing. Member Coli moved to accept the acting general counsel's recommendation.
Member Hade seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
5.
Case No. S-CA-07-231
International Association of Fire Fighters, Local 2392/Village of Villa Park
Chairman Gallagher called the case and noted that the Executive Director issued a dismissal on August 29,
2007, with an appeal filed. Acting General Counsel Strizak reviewed the issues presented by the appeal and
recommended that the Board uphold the dismissal. Member Hade moved to accept the acting general
counsel's recommendation. Member Piper seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a
voice vote.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

Chairman Gallagher noted that there was little to report regarding either fiscal or legislative matters, but
pointed out that thus far, our budget was in good shape and that the veto session was underway.
Subsequently, the Board discussed whether there was a need for executive session, concluding it was not
necessary at this time.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Gallagher called for a motion to adjourn. Member Hade made a motion to adjourn the meeting,
and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor
Relations Board, in Chicago, Illinois, this 6th day of November, 2007.

2

 