 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 9:00 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois


ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Butler, Collins, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Moore, Murphy,
Schneider, Silvestri, Sims, Steele (13)

Absent: Vice Chairman Fritchey, Gainer, Reyes and Tobolski (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in Accordance
with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore, Concerned Citizen

13-1552

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by

LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Section 2-5 83 of the Cook County
Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 2?583. Political activity.

No of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee shall compel, coerce or intimidate any County
of?cial or employee to make or refrain from making any political contribution. No of?cial, board or commission
appointee shall directly solicit any political contribution from his or her employees, the spouses, domestic partners
or civil union partners of or immediate family living with his or her employees. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to prevent any of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee from voluntarily making a

contribution or from receiving a voluntary contribution, except as stated in this section. Board or commission
appointees shall not make political contributions to the President of the Cook County Board and/or Members of the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County.

No employee with contract management authority or board or commission appointee shall serve on the
political fundraising committee of any elected of?cial or candidate for County of?ce.

(0) County employees shall not intentionally perform any prohibited political activity during any compensated
time (other than vacation, personal, or compensatory time off). County employees or officials shall not
intentionally misappropriate any County property or resources by engaging in any prohibited political activity for
the bene?t of any campaign for elective of?ce or any political organization.

At no time shall any of?cial or employee intentionally misappropriate the services of any County employee
and at no time shall any board or commission appointee misappropriate the services of any board or commission
employee by requiring that employee to perform any prohibited political activity:

(1) As part of that employee's County duties or in the case of a board or commission, as part of that
employee's board or commission duties;

(2) As a condition of County employment or in the case of a board or commission, as a condition of
board or commission employment; or

(3) During any time off that is compensated by the County or board or commission (such as vacation,
personal, or compensatory time off).

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that employee being awarded any additional compensation
or employee bene?t, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment,
or otherwise.

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be awarded any additional compensation
or employee bene?t, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or
otherwise, in consideration for the employee's participation in any prohibited political activity.

Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise appropriate for a County employee or board
or commission appointee to engage in on a voluntary basis as permitted by law.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

Submitting a Proposed Substitute Ordinance Amendment sponsored by

LARRY SUFFREDIN. JERRY BUTLER. EARLEAN COLLINS. JOHN P. DALEY. JESUS G. GARCIA.
ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, STANLEY MOOREJOAN PATRICIA MURPHY.
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, ROBERT STEELE, County

Commissioners

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, to accept the substitute
for File Id Number 13-1552. The motion carried.

Page 2 of 10

 SUBSTITUTE ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article VII Ethics, Division 2 Code of Ethical Conduct, Section 2-583 and 2;5_85_ of the Cook
County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 2-583. Political activity.

No of?cial, board or commission appointee or employee shall compel, coerce or intimidate any
County of?cial or employee to make or refrain from making any political contribution. No of?cial,
board or commission appointee shall directly solicit any political contribution from his or her
employees, the spouses, domestic partners or civil union partners of or immediate family living with
his or her employees. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent any of?cial, board or
commission appointee or employee from voluntarily making a contribution or from receiving a

 

 

 

 

 

No employee with contract management authority or Bboard or commission appointee of a Coung

o_f?cial whose board provides ['01 and requiies confrmallon

by the Cook Coung Board of Commissioners shall serve on the political fundraising committee of
any elected of?cial or candidate for County office.

 

 

(0) County employees shall not intentionally perform any prohibited political activity during any
compensated time (other than vacation, personal, or compensatory time off). County employees or
of?cials shall not intentionally misappropriate any County property or resources by engaging in any
prohibited political activity for the bene?t of any campaign for elective of?ce or any political
organization.

At no time shall any of?cial or employee intentionally misappropriate the services of any County
employee and at no time shall any board or commission appointee misappropriate the services of any
board or commission employee by requiring that employee to perform any prohibited political activity:

(1) As part of that employee's County duties or in the case of a board or commission, as part of that
employee?s board or commission duties;

(2) As a condition of County employment or in the case of a board or commission, as a condition of
board or commission employment; or

(3) During any time off that is compensated by the County or board or commission (such as vacation,
personal, or compensatory time off).

A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that employee being awarded any additional
compensation or employee bene?t, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off,
continued employment, or otherwise.

Page 3 of 10

 A County employee or board or commission appointee shall not be awarded any additional
compensation or employee bene?t, in the form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off,
continued employment, or otherwise, in consideration for the employee's participation in any
prohibited political activity.

Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are otherwise appropriate for a County employee or
board or commission appointee to engage in on a voluntary basis as permitted by law.

Sec. 2-585. Limitations of contributions to candidates and elected of?cials.

(60



(C)



No person shall make contributions exceeding the limits established by the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/9?1 et
seq., when making contributions to any of the following elected of?cials or candidates for such of?ce:
County Board President; Cook County Commissioner; Cook County State's Attorney; Cook County Clerk
of the Circuit Court; Cook County Assessor; Cook County Treasurer; Cook County Board of Review
Commissioner; Cook County Clerk; and Cook County Recorder of Deeds except as otherwise provided in
Section 2-5 85.

No person who does business with the County or who has done business with the County within the
preceding four years or is seeking to do business with the County or is a person required to register as a
lobbyist with the County shall make contributions in an aggregate amount exceeding $750.00:

(1) To any candidate for County of?ce or elected County of?cial during a single candidacy; or
(2) To any elected of?cial of the government of the County during any nonelection year of his or her term.

(3) To any local, state, or federal campaign committee that is controlled by, or established in support of, a
candidate for County of?ce or an elected County of?cial.

The combined effect of these provisions is intended to permit total contribution up to, but not exceeding,
$1,500.00 in a year in which a candidacy occurs. A year, for purposes of this section, is from January 1 to
December 31 of each year.

For purposes of Subsection of this section, an entity and its subsidiaries, parent company or otherwise
af?liated companies, and any of their employees, of?cers, directors and partners who make a political
contribution for which they are reimbursed by the entity or its af?liates shall be considered a single person.
However, nothing in this provision shall be construed to prohibit such an employee, officer, director or
partner from making a political contribution for which he is not reimbursed by a person with whom he or
she is af?liated, even if that person has made the maximum contribution allowed under Subsection of
this section.



l?egtiv go Board or _ggininission appointee Ufa Connlv official 11105; board or
com missig qgmpensation and requires: bv C(nintyanard

of Commissioners sal'enatcnanlnl. exceeding $750.00:

 

 

 

 

(1) _19_ County of?cial or the Members 

Commissioners during a single candidacy; or

(2) f?cial Emhgguntxlionrdji

Commissioners during any nonelection year of his or her term.

The combined is integded 10.139.133.111 total contLibntion up to, 

$ .500..00 in ayear in Which a candidacy UEQLEIS- A year, for nurneses, 
December 31 of each year.

Any contributions made under this section shall be reported as required by the Election Code, 10 ILCS
5/ 1-1 et seq.

 

 

 

Page 4 of 10

6e 3 For purposes of Subsection of this section, "done business" or "doing business? means any one or any
combination of sales, purchases, leases or contracts to, from or with the County or any County agency in
excess of $10,000.00 in any 12 consecutive months or during the previous four years. 

g) For purposes of Subsection of this section, ?seeking to do business" means taking action within the past
six months to obtain a contract or business with the County when, if such action were successful, it would
result in the person doing business with the County as de?ned in Subsection of this section.

Any ?rm, or its of?cers, directors or partners, contracted by the County to provide ?nancial audits of
county ?nances are prohibited from making campaign contributions to any county of?cial or candidate for
county of?ce.

1) Any ?rm, or its of?cers, directors or partners, contracted by the County to act as ?nancial counsel, bond
counsel, underwriter's counsel, legal counsel, or ?nancial manager for the issuance of any bond is
prohibited from making campaign contributions to any county of?cial or candidate for county of?ce.

1) Any candidate for any county of?ce or any current elected of?cial in Cook County government shall return
contributions found in excess of the limitations set forth in this section within 30 days of noti?cation from
the Board of Ethics. Failure to return contributions within 30 days shall be a violation of this section and
subject to ?nes under Section 

Legislation History: 09/1 1/ 13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried.

13-1568

Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Pursuant to the authority granted by Illinois State Law and County Ordinance, I hereby appoint Carl to the
position of Chief Administrative Of?cer. Mr. has been serving as Acting Chief Administrative Of?cer for
the Cook County Bureau of Administration since August 5, 2013.

Mr. has over twenty-?ve years of experience serving local government agencies such as the Chicago Transit
Authority, Chicago Housing Authority and the City of Chicago where he was most recently the Deputy
Commissioner of the Department of Buildings. His many years of management in the public sector and
leadership skills will aid the continued success of the departments under the Bureau of Administration.

His professional experience and educational background will certainly be a bene?t to the County of Cook.
I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislation History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this
Appointment be recommended for approval. The motion carried.

Page 5 of 10

13-1584

Submitting a Proposed Ordinance Amendment sponsored by
LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO THE RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE CONCERNING THE
CONFIRMATION OF PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENTS

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article 111 County Board, Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section 2?105(k) of
the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows:

Con?rmation of presidential appointments. All appointments and reappointments of the President requiring the
advice and consent of the Board shall be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
upon the President's submission. The Committee shall hold such hearings as it deems appropriate and
shall, no later than 30 days after referral, report all such appointments to the Board with a recommendation for
action. If the Committee has not made a timely report on any appointment, the appointment shall, at the next regular
meeting of the Board following the expiration of such 30 days, be referred to the Board with "no recommendation?
by the Committee.

At least two business days prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate For appointment or reappointment
bv the President or any other appointing authority shall submit a notarized, signed af?davit to the Chairman of the
Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:

(1) Is signed by the candidate;
(2) Is sworn under oath, under penalties of periurv;

3 Is notarized;

(4) Attests that the candidate ful?lls the requirements set forth under the requisite statute, ordinance,
law or regulation that creates the appointment. including. but not limited to:

a. Any residency requirements; and/or
b. Any prohibitions on dual employment;

(5) Attests that the no con?icts of interest thatwould prevent them from adequately
Epresenting the interests of the agency to which the?I are being appointed; and

(6) Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills to adeguatety represent the
interests of the agency and delineates these quali?cations and skills:

(7) Notarizes and acknowledges:

a. The ca?didate?s actual residency ?ddresg

 

length ot'time that the candidate has resided at their actual residency;

Page 6 of 10

c. Ifthe candidate owns any other residential property within Cook County; and

d. ll'the candidate obtains any homeowners for property other than
their actual residency address.

If there is any change in the information contained in the af?davit after the candidate ismappointed. the
candidate will notify the Chairman of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee in writing
within seven business days of the change

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislative History: 9/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

Submitting a Proposed Substitute Ordinance Amendment sponsored by

LARRY SUFFREDIN, JERRY BUTLER, EARLEAN COLLINS. JOHN P. DALEY, JESUS G. GARCIA.
ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN. STANLEY MOORE, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY.
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER. PETER N. SILVESTRI. SIMS. ROBERT STEELE. County
Commissioners

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, to accept the substitute
for File Id Number 13-1584. The motion carried.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

AN AMENDMENT TO THE RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE CONCERNING THE
CONFIRMATION OF PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENTS

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2
Administration, Article 111 County Board, Division 2 Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
2-105(k) of the Cook County Code, is hereby amended as follows: a



Con?rmation of presidential appointments. All appointments and reappointments of the President
requiring the advice and consent of the Board shall be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee upon the President's submission. The Committee shall hold such hearings as
it deems appropriate and shall, no later than 30 days after referral, report all such appointments to the Board
with a recommendation for action. If the Committee has not made a timely report on any appointment, the
appointment shall, at the next regular meeting of the Board following the expiration of such 30 days, be
referred to the Board with "no recommendation" by the Committee.

Perior to their con?rmation l'iearing, each candidate for appointment or

reappointment by the President or any other appointing authority shall submit a notarized, signed af?dayjt
to the Chairman of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:

(1) Is signed by the candidate;

(2) Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjuil;

Page 7 of 10

(3) Is notarized;

(4) Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute. ordinance.
law or regulation that creates the_appointment, including. but not limited to:

a. Any residency requirements; and/or
b. Any prohibitions on dual employment;

(5) Attests that the candidate possesses no conflicts of interest that would prevent them from adequately
representing the interests ol'the agency to which they are being appointed; and

(6) Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills to adequately represent the
interests of the agency and delineates those qualifications and skills;

(7) Notarizes and acknowledges:
a. The candidate?s actual residency address;
b. The length oftime that the candidate has resided at their actual residency:
c. If the candidate owns any other residential property within Cook County: and

d. lf'the candidate obtains any homeowners property tax exemptions for property other than
their actual residency address.

If there is any change in the information contained in the a?idayit after the candidate is appointed. the candidate will
notify the President of?ook C'Ot?l'y Board of Commissio.11e_rs_a_nd the Chairman of the Legislation 311d
Intergovernmental Relations Committee in writing within seyen business days ol'the change.

 

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Legislation History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, that this Ordinance
Amendment be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried.

13-1588
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Please be advised that I hereby appoint Ted to the North?eld Woods Sanitary District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on May I, 2016. Mr. will replace Joseph Fagan, who is currently

serving on an expired term.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Page 8 of 10

Legislation History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, that this
Appointment be recommended for approval. The motion carried.

13-1589

Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Roselyne Navarro to the Central Stickney Sanitary District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on May 1, 2016. Ms. Navarro will replace Fortino Carillo, who is currently
serving on an expired term.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislation History: 09/1 1/ 13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this
Appointment be recommended for deferral. The motion carried.

13-1590

Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Raul Aguirre to the South Stickney Sanitary District for a term to begin
immediately and to expire on May 1, 2016. Mr. Aguirre will replace Joseph Ford, who is currently serving on an
expired term.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Legislation History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental

Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Goslin, that this
Appointment be recommended for approval. The motion carried.

13-1591

Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Larry Paarlberg to the Lincoln-Lansing Drainage District for a term to
begin immediately and to expire on September 1, 2016.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Page 9 of 10

Legislation History: 09/11/13 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this
Appointment be recommended for deferral. The motion carried.

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Collins, that this meeting be
adjourned. The motion carried.

SECTION 2

YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

Communication Number 13-1552 Recommended for Approval as Substituted
Communication Number 13-1568 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13?1584 Recommended for Approval as Substituted
Communication Number 13-1588 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-1589 Recommended for Deferral
Communication Number 13-1590 Recommended for Approval
Communication Number 13-1591 Recommended for Deferral

Respectfully submitted,

21 I
1. 

video recording of this meeting is available on the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board?s web site on the Video Page at
.govfsecrela -hoard-prnceed i 

 

 

4%
Wm? 

Chairman '(Set?gary

 

Page 10 of 10

Carl R. 

2 7 E. 90?1 Street
Chicago, IL 60619
Home (773)371-3 761

CAREER OBJECTIVE

To continue to develop and utilize my technical and managerial abilities and experience in Transportation, Urban Planning and
Development.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Jan 2009 City of Chicago, Department of Buildings
- Present First Deputy Commissioner Deputy Commissioner

Oversees staff of 325 and manages all technical inspection and permit review bureaus including,
Plumbing, Electrical, Elevators and New Construction. Implements new inspection protocols for
Elevators and New/Rehab Construction as well as, new innovations in Plan Review (E-Plan) and
Inspection Coordination. Acts as point-of-contact between Department of Buildings, other
departments and sister agencies.

Mar 2008 City of Chicago, Department of Housing
- Dec 2008 irsi Deputy Commissioner

In charge of day-to-day operations of 135 person department; responsible for housing development,
?nancing and supportive services related to affordable housing programs within city.

Mar 2001 Chicago Housing Authority, Of?ce of Development Management
Feb 2008 Director of Development

Oversees staff of 25 Development Managers responsible for Mixed Finance Redevelopment of Family
Development Properties as part of Chicago Housing Authority's 10 year Plan for Transformation. Involved in
Scope Development, Financing and Master Flaming Design (From Transaction Closing to Construction
Completion). Average annual budget of over 1 million dollars, ODM (Of?ce of Development Management) has
closed on 47 mixed-?nance deals resulting in over 2700 units of public housing and over 9000 units of housing
total. Total CHA dollars invested has been over 225 million resulting in over 1.5 Billion dollars in construction.

May 1999 City of Chicago, Department of Transportation
- Mar 2001 Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Traffic

Heads Bureau involved in planning and design issues dealing with all public way jurisdictions. This includes
traf?c signals and signs, traf?c calming, bikeway issues as well as commercial and residential development.

Jun 1998 Chicago Transit Authority, Chicago, Illinois
- May 1999 Manager, ra?ic Engineering

Manages, coordinates and plans the activities of coordinators, transit planners, and technicians involved in traf?c
planning, engineering and coordination functions to ensure safe and ef?cient bus operations and effective passenger
information.

Develops and administers programs, policies, goals and objectives of the Traf?c Engineering Section. Coordinates
the evaluation of traf?c delays and bus operations in order to improve traf?c safety and ef?ciency using traf?c
engineering techniques. Manages and monitors the use of Geometric Design, Capacity Analysis, Congestion
Mitigation and other techniques to achieve optimum safety and ef?ciency of operations. Recommends
improvements in the flow of street traf?c to relevant government agencies. Meets and corresponds with
representatives from various Authority Departments, as well as alderman and city of?cials, to obtain permission to
occupy the public way, operate bus routes on city streets and to address the concerns regarding CTA operations.

Carl R. 

Oct 1997
- Jun 1998

Sept 1988
- Oct 1997

May, 1985 to
Sept 1988

EDUCATION

Page 2

City of Chicago Department of Planning and Development, Chicago, Illinois
Assistant Commissioner - Neighborhoods Division

West District Coordinator in charge of Commercial, Industrial and Residential Developments for the Westside of
Chicago. Implements department initiatives and area special projects such as; Chicago Housing Authority, ABLA
and Henry Homer homes and Lawndale developments. Oversees industrial corridor developments and Tax
Increment Financing (TIF) programs. Manages Status of Land acquisition and development transactions. Acts as
liaison to local Alderman, City, Governmental Agencies and the general public.

City of Chicago Department of Transportation, Bureau of Traf?c, Chicago, Illinois
ra?ic Engineer 

Responsible for analysis of current and proposed traf?c conditions, street con?gurations and infrastructure projects.
Overseeing implementation of federal and city design guidelines by consultants, technicians, and ?eld staff. Served
as a Representative for the Department of Transportation at Community Meetings, Public Hearings and
Coordination Meetings, City Bureaus and Federal Agencies. Responsible for implementation of city?s Community
Security Infrastructure programs, (CSI), as well as cul-de-sacs, traf?c circles, and other traf?c calming devices.

Notable Projects:
?Navy Pier OMaxwell Street Market
oMcCormick Place Expansion oMichigart Avenue Bridge
State Street Mall oMidway Airport Expansion

0Central Area Circulator

Hazelet Erdal, Inc Consulting Engineers, Chicago, Illinois
Civil Engineer

Traf?c analysis and maintenance of traf?c design on various roadway and bridge design projects. Field experience
includes the structural inspection of a nineteen span of, six land interstate highway (1-70/5 5) structure. Over a series
of railroad tracks in East St. Louis, Illinois and the structural inspection of a double leaf bascule bridge and viaduct
structure over the Chicago River on Michigan Avenue in Chicago, Illinois.

Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana
Bachelor of Science: Civil Engineering, 1985
Construction: Maj or/Transportation: Minor

References available upon request

DRAFT Comments for Carl on the Occasion of Board Approval
As Cook County Chief Administrative Of?cer
Board Meeting of 10.2.13

Good morning Chairman Suffredin and Honorable Commissioners.

My name is Carl R. Byrd, and it gives me great pleasure, coupled with a sense of
honor and humility, to stand before you today and ask for your support of my
appointment as Cook County?s Chief Administrative Of?cer.

First and foremost, I want to thank President Preckwinkle for the con?dence she
has shown by nominating me for this position.

I am a proud product of Chicago and its public school system, and was raised to
believe in the value and importance of public service.

I was educated as a civil engineer, spent three years in the private sector, and for
the past 25 years have held a number of posts working for the City of Chicago and
its sister agencies.

I have seen government operate from a variety of perspectives with the the
and Chicago?s Departments of Transportation, Housing, Planning, and
Buildings and I understand clearly that our task is best summed up in one word:

Service.

The Bureau of Administration oversees 12 departments and programs, with
responsibilities as diverse as the Medical Examiner?s of?ce, Transportation and
Highways, Salvage, and Animal Control.

Yet within that diversity of task and mission is a commitment to the County?s
guiding principles:

Operating in a ?scally responsible manner, demonstrating innovation and
leadership, being transparent and accountable, and yes, always striving to improve
service.

I look forward to working with the President?s of?ce and with all of the
Commissioners to ensure that Cook County and the needs of its residents are at all
times served by the various representatives of the Bureau of Administration.

1 would also like to thank Martha Martinez for the work she did as interim Chief
Administrative Of?cer following the departure of now-Congresswoman Robin
Kelly.

The senior team that supported Martha for eight months is the team I am proud to
inherit. Together, we will continue our focused efforts to earn and maintain the
trust of yourselves and Cook County residents.

Again, I look forward to working with all of you and I appreciate your support.

Thank you.

 

 

HOUSING AUTHORITY OF

COOK COUNTY

Building Cornmur'u?ties. Creating Partnerships. Shaping Futures since 1946

 

 

l75 W. Jackson Blvd, Suite 350 a Chicago, ll- 60604-3042 0 (312) 663.5447
October 1, 2013



?t 3.2, 
- ?r-iizoe heater-.13;

 

Honorable Toni Preckwinkle
President

Cook County Board of Commissioners
118 N. Clark Street, Room 500
Chicago, Illinois 60602

   

Dear President Preckwinkle:

I am writing in support of your nomination of Carl as Chief Administrative Officer
for Cook County, Illinois.

 

have known Carl for over ten years, working with him in many different capacities. Our
paths crossed often while we both worked for the City of Chicago. Carl served with
distinction at the Departments ofTransportation and Housing, and the Chicago Housing
Authority. 1 often had to interact with these departments, and whenever a difficult issue
arose, Carl was the person to resolve it.

 

Carl proved himself to be a ?can-do? leader as my First Deputy Commissioner at the
Department of Buildings. We worked hand-in-hand to re-engineerthe inspection and
permitting systems for the City. Carl was also instrumental in working across
departments to reach consensus.

Perhaps Ca rl's greatest strength his ability to work with and lead others in a professional
but harmonious manner. Just as important, he has the ability to implement policies
once a clear path is established.

Carl is a consummate professional and will be a great asset to the County. I am pleased
to support this nomination, and would be happy to provide any additional information
that may be required.

?7me?

Sincerely,

Ichard J. Mono
Executive Direct

 

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS
CITY OF CHICAGO

October 1, 2013

The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle
President

Cook County Board of Commissioners
118 N. Clark St.

Chicago, Il 60602

Dear The Honorable Preckwinkle:

I would like to congratulate you on your nomination of Carl as your Chief Administrative
Of?cer (CAO) for the Bureau of Administration. I have known Carl both professionally and
personally for over a decade. Carl has always been a leader both professionally and in the
community, which is a valuable asset when embracing a demanding public sector job such as the

CA0.

While working in Department of Buildings (DOB) for the City of Chicago, Carl served as a Deputy
and Deputy, responsible for managing many aspects of the department. Along with being tasked
with the oversight of the all of the 13 technical bureaus within DOB, Carl was able to interface with
the Mayor?s Of?ce and the Department of Innovation and help to implement many new initiatives
for the City within DOB and other departments.

Carl?s interpersonal as well as management skills have served him well. He has been able to
establish a great rapport within not only DOB, but other city departments and sister agencies. As a
manger, Carl has the ability to set goals and ensure that the critical deadlines met. He also has the
ability to understand complex issues, determine the most critical elements to be addressed and create
an action plan to come up with a sensible and reasonable resolution.

I strongly believe that Carl will be a great asset to the County. He is a true public servant and will
serve the County well. Please let me know if I can be of any additional help or provide you with
supplemental information.

Sincerely,

9m Jud/?x MM
Michael Merchant



120 NORTH RACINE AVENUE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60607

September 30, 2013

The Honorable Toni Preckwinkle
Cook County Board President

118 North Clark Street, Room 537
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Dear President Preckwinkle,

I am writing in support of your nomination of Carl to serve as Chief Administrative Of?cer
(CAO) of the Bureau of Administration for Cook County.

I have known Carl for four years and, during that time, I have found him to be a highly skilled and
talented administrator. Carl and I became acquainted when he worked for the City of Chicago and
during his time as president of the National Forum for Black Public Administrators. Carl has excellent
interpersonal and management skills, as well as innate leadership abilities.

Over the years, I have been impressed with his outstanding listening skills and approachable manner.
He has consistently earned the respect of those who work with him.

I know that the County will be well served with Carl as its Chief Administrative Of?cer, and I?m
happy to recommend him for the position.

Sincerely,


chin L. Kelly
Former Cook County CAO

mp

Dear Committee Members and Commissioners, September 30, 2013

I am here today to present you with my quali?cations and interest in being
appointed to the of?ce of Trustee of the North?eld Woods Sanitary District. Since
moving into the district under two years ago, I have paid my fees and watched the staff
excel in performing their duties. My interest stems not from a lack of service but from
the importance of the services the district provides and the need for citizen representation.
My experience in municipal government and focus on ?nances will bring a needed voice
to the Board of Trustees.

I was ?rst elected to the Niles Public Library District in 1989 at the age of 27.
The President of the Board asked me to serve on the ?nance committee and learn the
systems and methods. A year later, I assumed the Board Presidency and continued in that
role and Finance Chair until 2002. During that time, we passed a referendum to expand
the Library, created Project 21(a fund for expanded programs and services dedicated to
school groups and seniors) and lowered the levy twice in 12 years. Upon my resignation
in 2002, the library operating and capital funds had 1.5 years? worth of reserves.

In 2003, I ran for election to serve as Commissioner of the Glenview Park
District. Much like the library district in Niles, the Finance Committee needed a new
member to work with the long standing members. I continue to serve on that committee
and have held of?cer positions. Since 2003, I co-chaired the committee to pass a
successful 17 million dollar referendum to rebuild the two pools, participated in a
nationwide executive director search and the development of ball ?elds for youth
baseball. The Executive Director and the full board have an outstanding relationship with
the other arms of government and work very close with them on a number of issues
including public services, storm water management and safety issues. I am most proud of
the fact The Park District fund balances are healthy and we have a capital replacement
and capital development fund that helped us earn a bond rating. We have
accomplished this while keeping our levy almost ?at the previous two years (.03
increases).

If I am appointed to the North?eld Woods Sanitary District, I will carefully
review the operations of the district and work to make the district more ef?cient, cost-
effective and transparent. I welcome your questions.

Sincerely,

Ted M. 
847-707-0700
tmp32 l6@gmail.com

