Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, April 12, 2017

10:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-2716
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/8/2017
17-2305
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the special meeting held on 11/15/2016 for the Executive Budget for Fiscal Year 2017, as Amended.

Page 1 of 3

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Rules and Administration
Committee

April 12, 2017

17-2619
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, David Orr, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of Proceedings
of the regular meeting held on 3/8/2017.
17-1730
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN
AMENDMENT
PROCEDURE

TO

THE

COOK

COUNTY

RULES

OF

ORGANIZATION

AND

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 - Administration,
Article III - County Board, Division 1 - Generally, Section 2-106 - Committees of the Cook County Code
is hereby amended as Follows:

Sec. 2-106. - Committees.
***
(h) Notice and agendas. The agenda shall briefly describe all items that will be considered
at the meeting. Material pertinent to an item on a committee or subcommittee agenda shall be
supplied, along with the agenda, to the President and to each of the Commissioners. With the
exception of materials that are confidential as provided by law, such material shall also be
available to the public in the office of the Secretary.
(1) Notwithstanding any other rules governing origination of items on the Board
agenda, including subsection (o) of this Section, the following items types are
permitted for origin with their respective committees: Litigation Pending;
Recommendations of the Zoning Board of Appeals; Journals of Proceedings; Court
Ordered Payments; Workers Compensations Claims; Subrogation Recoveries;
Self-Insurance Claims; Proposed Settlements; Patient Arrestee Claims; Employee
Injury Compensation Claims; Revenue Report; and the Cook County Health And
Hospitals System Monthly Report.
(2) Amendments or substitutes to any item placed on an agenda of any meeting of a
committee or subcommittee shall be submitted to the Secretary no later than 24
hours in advance of the meeting at which the item will be considered. Upon receipt
Page 2 of 3

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 12, 2017

of the amendment or substitute, the Secretary shall immediately provide the
amendment or substitute to the President, all Commissioners and all news media
that have requested notice of meetings and it shall be posted in the Office of the
County Clerk and at the location where the meeting is to be held, and shall be
made available to the public in the office of the Secretary. This rule may be waived
for technical amendments or emergencies.
(3) Notwithstanding any action to be undertaken by committees or subcommittees
pursuant to this Section, only the Board may take final action on any item referred
to a committee or subcommittee. Any item contained on a committee or
subcommittee agenda, as properly noticed pursuant to subsection (f) of this
Section, shall also be referenced on the next regularly scheduled Board Meeting
Agenda under the Committee Items Requiring Board Action for purposes of
consideration and possible action by the Board. If a properly noticed item
contained on a committee or subcommittee agenda is not included in the
Committee Items Requiring Board Action section of a Board Meeting Agenda, the
Secretary to the Board of Commissioners may include that item in an errata and the
Board of Commissioners may consider the item as if it were properly noticed.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

2/8/17 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Commi

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Daley
Members:
Fritchey, Gainer, Morrison, Schneider, Silvestri, Sims and Steele

Page 3 of 3

 