MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
OPEN SESSION
November 9 and 10, 2009
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
CHIAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
On Monday, November 9, 2009 a Regular Meeting of the Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) was
held on the 3rd floor at 160 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois.
On Monday November 9, 2009 at approximately 9:30 a.m. the following Board Members were
present: Chairman Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler, Joseph Moore and Jim
Sullivan. At 9:50 a.m. on Monday November 9, 2009, Member Gardner called the meeting to
order. Pursuant to Section 2(c), paragraphs (1), (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act
and Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Gardner moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the items listed under Closed Session on today’s agenda and
relating to the following subject matters:
1.
2.
3.

Personnel matters;
Investigations concerning applicants and licensees; and
Closed session minutes.

Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll
call vote. The Board recessed at 10:50 a.m.
On Tuesday, November 10, 2009 the meeting reconvened at 10:10 a.m. Present were the
following Board Members: Chairman Aaron Jaffe, Members Charles Gardner, Eugene Winkler,
James Sullivan and Joseph Moore.
The Board remained in Closed Session until approximately 10:15 a.m. The Board recessed and
then went into open session at 10:37 a.m. All members were present.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Member Gardner moved that the Board approve the closed session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of October 5 & 6, 2009 and its Special Meeting of October 16, 2009. Member
Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
Member Gardner moved that the board approve the open session minutes of its Regular
Meeting of October 6, 2009 and its Special Meeting of October 16, 2009. Member Moore
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

 CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS –
The Chairman stated that the item for initial consideration, a demonstration relating to a new
game, Mississippi stud.
BOARD POLICY ITEMS
●

2010 Board Meeting Dates

Member Winkler moved that the Board approve the following dates for
Regular Board Meetings for the 2010 Calendar year.
Tuesday, January 12th - Closed session
Wednesday, January 13th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, February 9th - Closed session
Wednesday, February 10th – Closed and Open
Monday, March 29th - Closed session
Tuesday, March 30th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, April 13th - Closed session
Wednesday, April 14th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, May 18th - Closed session
Wednesday, May 19th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, June 22nd - Closed session
Wednesday, June 23rd - Closed and Open
Tuesday, July 13th - Closed session
Wednesday, July 14th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, August 24th - Closed session
Wednesday, August 25th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, September 14th - Closed session
Wednesday, September 15th - Closed and Open
Monday, October 18th - Closed
Tuesday, October 19th – Closed and Open
Tuesday, November 9th - Closed session
Wednesday, November 10th - Closed and Open
Tuesday, December 14th - Closed session
Wednesday, December 15th - Closed and Open

2

 Member Gardner seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED RULES
●

Section 3000.221 – Other Required Forms – Second Notice Filing & Adoption Upon
Approval from JCAR
Member Sullivan moved to authorize staff to submit the proposed amendment to
section 3000.221 of the Adopted Rules for second notice filing with the Joint
Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to authorize the final adoption and publishing of
section 3000.221 as amended, provided no material changes are made to this section
during the second notice process. Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.

●

Sections 3000.600, 3000.665 and 3000.666 – (Electronic Credits) – Second Notice Filing
& Adoption Upon Approval from JCAR

Member Sullivan moved to authorize staff to submit the proposed amendments to sections
3000.600, 3000.665 and 3000.666 of the Adopted Rules for second notice filing with the
Joint Committee on Administrative Rules.
Further, Member Sullivan moved to authorize the final adoption and publishing of sections
3000.600, 3000.665 and 3000.666 as amended, provided no material changes are made to
these sections during the second notice process. Member Gardner seconded the motion. The
Board approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OWNER LICENSEE ITEMS

●

Items for Final Action
●

MGM/Nevada Landing Partnership – Request to Issue a Subsidiary Guarantee
Under a new Note Class

Based on a review of staff’s investigation and recommendation, pursuant to Section
230(d) of the Board’s Adopted Rules, Member Moore moved to approve MGM’s
request for Board approval of Nevada landing Partnership as a Subsidiary
Guarantor of the principal amount of $475 Million of MGM’s 11.375% Senior
Notes due 2018, which were sold by MGM in September, 2009 through private
placement. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by roll call vote.

3

 ●

Harrah’s Metropolis – Thomas Weitnauer, V.P. Finance – Level One

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Moore moved that the
Board approve Thomas Weitnauer as an Occupational Licensee Level 1 in the
position of Vice President of Finance at Harrah’s Metropolis Casino & Hotel in
Metropolis, Illinois. Member Sullivan seconded the motion. The Board approved the
motion unanimously by roll call vote.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES APPROVALS & DENIALS – LEVEL 2’S & 3’S
Based on staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Gardner moved that the Board
approve 20 applications for an Occupational License, Level 2, and 82 applications for an
Occupational License, Level 3.

Further, Member Gardner moved that the Board direct the Administrator to issue a
Notice of Denial to the following individual who received notice that staff intended
to recommend denial and either did not respond or provide additional information
to rebut the recommendation.
1.

Jackie Wilson Lacey.

Member Moore seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
PROPOSED COMPLAINTS AND DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS ●

Jacqueline Marbury-Bragg – Occupational Licensee

Based on staff’s investigation and recommendation, Member Sullivan moved that
the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Jacqueline Marbury-Bragg,
an occupational licensee, for her involvement in under-ringing sale items in
the gift shop to a limited group of co-workers without authorization.
Further, Member Sullivan moved that the Board revoke Jacqueline Marbury-Bragg’s
occupational license. Said action to take effect twenty-one (21) days from the date of
service of the complaint unless the licensee files an Answer within that time period.
Member Winkler seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
roll call vote.
ITEM FOR INITIAL CONSIDERATION –
●

Mississippi Stud –

John Hemburger addressed the Board and initiated the presentation for the details of the
game Mississippi Stud. A brief video was played to explain the game and its contents.

4

 Member Gardner questioned what the history of this game is. Mr. Hemburger stated that it was
similar to the game “Let it Ride”. There are seventy to seventy-five installs across America, all
the major markets have the game up and running, including Atlanta, Mississippi, Las Vegas, etc.
Member Winkler asked if this authorization was just for the operation at Harrah’s Metropolis and
Mr. Hemburger stated that their intention would be for it to be later played at all the casinos.
Member Gardner asked how many decks are in play and Mr. Hemburger stated that it was a
single deck game with a deck shuffler.
The Chairman asked what the odds were and Mr. Hemburger stated 500-1.
Member Gardner asked what the house advantage was and Mr. Hemburger explained that it was
1.58%.
At 10:57 a.m. Member Winkler motioned to adjourn and Member Sullivan seconded the motion.
All Members voted in favor of adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Mary C. Boruta
Secretary to the Administrator

5

 