Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, July 22, 2014

9:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or Subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
According to the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board’s Rules of Organization and Procedure, Section
1-4-30, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special meetings of the Board and at committee meetings
of the Board. Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has
expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate
language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the
person from providing future testimony.

14-0170
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Commissioner
A Resolution Opposing the United States Army Corps of Engineers Proposed Use of the Fullerton Woods
and Harry Semrow Golf Driving Range for Stormwater Management
WHEREAS, in August of 2013, the United States Army Corps of Engineers (“U.S. Army Corps”) issued an
Integrated Feasibility Report and Environmental Assessment for the Upper Des Plaines River and Tributaries of
Illinois and Wisconsin (the “Report”);

 WHEREAS, the Report sought to create a comprehensive plan for addressing flooding and stormwater along the
Des Plaines River; and
WHEREAS, the Report proposed a variety of remediation measures along the Des Plaines river, including the
creation of a reservoir within the Aptakisic Creek watershed, in Lake County, Illinois, near the Village of Buffalo
Grove; and
WHEREAS, in October, 2013, the Village of Buffalo Grove passed a resolution opposing the siting of the reservoir
at Aptakisic Creek; and
WHEREAS, the U.S. Army Corps issued a “Documentation of Changes to the Draft Integrated Feasibility Report
and Environmental Assessment” (the “Documentation of Changes”) in response to the Village of Buffalo Grove’s
resolution;
WHEREAS, the Documentation of Changes removed the proposal for a reservoir within the Aptakisic Creek
watershed and proposed the creation of two reservoirs at Fullerton Woods and the Harry Semrow Driving Range
within the Forest Preserve District of Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County were never presented
with and have not ruled upon the proposal within the Documentation of Changes;
WHEREAS, the proposed creation of the reservoirs is not supported as a land use under law and is against the
mission and land use policies of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Real Estate Committee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County Board of Commissioners convene a public hearing to discuss the proposed creation of reservoirs at
Fullerton Woods and the Harry Semrow Driving Range; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Superintendent of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, and/or
his designee, report to the Real Estate Committee of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Commissioners on
the proposed reservoirs; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
will investigate the creation of reservoirs at Fullerton Woods and the Harry Semrow Golf Driving Range; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that an official copy of this Resolution be tendered to the United States Army
Corps of Engineers.
Legislative History:

3/11/14 FPD Board of Commissioners adopted as amended.
3/11/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee
4/8/14 FPD Real Estate Committee deferred
6/17/14 FPD Real Estate Committee deferral

Page 2 of 5

 14-0277
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Department: Planning and Development
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to People’s Gas, Light, and Coke Company (PGL), Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain a
36-inch natural gas pipeline to replace two existing 24-inch diameter natural gas pipelines in a disturbed portion of
Burnham Prairie. The new pipeline segment will enable PGL to run internal electronic inspection equipment
through PGL’s line for regular inspection as mandated by Department of Transportation regulations. This pipeline
will be the main source of natural gas serving Chicago. The pipeline will be installed by direction bore at a depth of
25 to 30 feet below the surface. No additional excavation or construction activity will take place on FPCC property.
No trees will be impacted by this project. PGL has agreed to make an additional contribution of $20,000.00 toward
the FPCC’s land restoration activities.
Term:

Ten (10) Years

License Fee:

$3,400.00

License Application Fee: $1,000.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $7,800.00 for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.030 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Attorney and Comptroller have approved this item.
Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and plans and found them to be acceptable;
therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners approve the issuance of this
license.
District(s): 4
Legislative History: 6/17/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

Page 3 of 5

 14-0278
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
EASEMENT REQUEST
Department: Planning and Development
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”) to grant a
temporary easement to the Illinois Department of Transportation (“IDOT”) at Harts Road and the North Branch of
the Chicago River for 0.02 acre or 741 square feet.
Reason: IDOT requests a temporary construction easement to access the North Branch of the Chicago River along
the north side of Harts Road for a slope stabilization project. The slope stabilization is necessary to ensure the
continued operation and safety of the Harts Road Bridge over the river. This remediation will stabilize the river
bank and prevent further loss of soil, trees, and vegetation. The slope stabilization will decrease the sediment load in
the river, thus reducing surface water degradation and stream siltation.
Slope stabilization utilizing a 12-inch tall stone slope mattress over 36-inch tall gabions is to be placed along the
banks of the North Branch Chicago River. A synthetic geo filter fabric will be placed on the ground below the slope
mattress and gabions. The area for the temporary easement is 0.02 acres. IDOT indicates that 4 (four) trees are
expected to be removed for this project.
Easement Fee: $1,500.00
Tree Mitigation Fee: $1,814.12
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Attorney and Comptroller have approved this item.
District(s): 13
Legislative History: 6/17/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

14-0285
Presented by: ARNOLD L. RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Department: Planning and Development
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (“the Preserves”), as Licensor,
to grant a License to The Village of Wheeling, Licensee (the “Village”), to locate, operate and maintain a storm
sewer connection to an existing storm sewer outfall on Preserves property. The Village intends to extend the
existing storm sewer outfall to the river, and re-grade and repair the existing eroded ditch area. The Village also
plans to install rip-rap at the outfall to prevent future erosion of the bank at this location. In addition, the Village will
provide an access easement to the Preserves to allow access to the narrow strip of Preserves property along the west
bank of the river.

Page 4 of 5

 Term:

Continuous

License Fee:

$3,400.00

License Application Fee: $500.00
YELAR Fee: $3,400.00
Total one-time upfront fee of $7,300.00 for the term of the License (Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.028 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Attorney and Comptroller have approved this item.
The Village has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Preserves staff has reviewed this license application and related documents and has found them to be
acceptable. Approval of the license request by the Board of Commissioners approval is recommended.

District(s): 14
Legislative History: 6/17/14 FPD Board of Commissioners referred to the Real Estate Committee.

________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice Chairman:
Members:

Murphy
Gorman
Committee of the Whole

Page 5 of 5

 