Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, June 28, 2017

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-4029
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 5/16/2017
17-3210
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT
Department(s): Bureau of Economic Development
Other Part(ies): Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Board Approval

Page 1 of 2

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 28, 2017

Good(s) or Service(s): Services to implement Cook County Workforce Ordinance
Agreement period:
5/1/2018.

This Agreement shall commence upon execution by both parties and continue until

Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Agreement Number(s): N/A

Summary/Notes:
The Cook County Workforce Resource Ordinance (the “Ordinance”) was
approved by the Board on 2/8/2017. The Ordinance is intended to facilitate the recruitment,
training and placement of Cook County residents to fill position vacancies that are created as a
result of industrial and commercial development, rehabilitation or expansion.
The Ordinance
requires recipients of tax incentives to enter into Workforce Resource Agreements with the
Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership (“Partnership”) to accomplish such intended goals.
Under the proposed Agreement, the Bureau of Economic Development will notify the
Partnership of the receipt and approval of applications from employers for tax incentives and
provide information to the Partnership regarding such employers. The Partnership will facilitate
the recruitment and placement of Cook County residents in various businesses that are recipients
of applicable County Tax Incentives under the Ordinance.
Legislative History : 5/10/2017 Board of Commissioners refer to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Gainer
Vice-Chairman: Boykin
Members:
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 2 of 2

 