BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA

for the
Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
Wednesday, January 21, 2015, 11:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three (3)
minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda and
Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR
Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
PRESIDENT

15-1216
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and STANLEY MOORE, JESÚS G. GARCÍA,
LARRY SUFFREDIN, DEBORAH SIMS, BRIDGET GAINER, ROBERT STEELE, LUIS ARROYO
JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, GREGG GOSLIN and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO PASS HB 172 TO RESTORE JUDICIAL
DISCRETION IN THE TRANSFER OF JUVENILES TO ADULT COURT
WHEREAS, the nation’s first juvenile court was created in Cook County 115 years ago, based on the
understanding that children are different and should be treated differently than adults; and
WHEREAS, scientific research has proven that the adolescent brain is not fully developed in the areas
that regulate rational decision making and impulse control; and
WHEREAS, 705 ILCS 405/5-130 of the Juvenile Court Act, mandates that youth predominantly 15 and
older, but as young as 13, automatically be tried as adults, in adult court, facing adult sentences, based
solely on the charge brought, which is at the exclusive discretion of the prosecutor; and
WHEREAS, Illinois is one of only 14 states that do not require a hearing in front of a juvenile court
judge before a child is transferred to adult court; and
WHEREAS, according to a study by the Illinois Juvenile Justice Initiative (JJI), since the passage of the
Automatic Transfer statute in 1982, transfers to adult court have increased from 57 annually to 86
annually as of 2012; and
WHEREAS, the number of youth charged as Automatic Transfers increased dramatically after the
passage of “Raise the Age” legislation from 96 in 2013 to 178 in 2014; and

Page 2 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, Automatic Transfer of youth to adult court has a direct impact on the Cook County
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) in which the average daily population of transferred youth
has nearly doubled over the last year from 72 to 138; and
WHEREAS, according to the JJI study, the implementation of Automatic Transfer has resulted in more
children being transferred to adult court for less serious crimes as compared to when judges made the
transfer decisions; and
WHEREAS, Automatic Transfer has an extreme disproportionate impact on children of color. In a
three year sample of automatic transfers in Cook County, only 83% of youth transferred were African
American, and only one youth was white; and
WHEREAS, approximately 54% of Automatic Transfer youth in the three year study by JJI ultimately
pled guilty to lesser charges that if originally charged would have been prosecuted in juvenile court; and
WHEREAS, Adult court cases are processed at a much slower pace than juvenile cases with an average
time to disposition of 369 days for Automatic Transfer youth whose cases where disposed of in the last
year; and
WHEREAS, according to a 2007 survey by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention children
prosecuted as adults are 34% more likely to reoffend than children with similar criminal histories who
are prosecuted in juvenile court for similar offenses; and
WHEREAS, “The Consequences of Transfer” a study published by the University of Chicago Press,
found that children prosecuted as adults are more likely to commit more serious new crimes at a faster
rate than those tried in juvenile court; and
WHEREAS, according to analysis by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice there is no correlation
between the transferring of juveniles to adult court and the drop in youth violence across the country; and
WHEREAS, the United Nation Human Rights Committee urged the U.S. to end prosecution of juveniles
in adult court; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court of Illinois in People v. Patterson, urged the legislature to reform the
automatic transfer statute in Illinois stating “While modern research has recognized the effect that the
unique qualities and characteristics of youth may have on juveniles’ judgment and actions, the automatic
transfer provision does not. Indeed, the mandatory nature of that statute denies this reality. Accordingly,
we strongly urge the General Assembly to review the automatic transfer provision based on the current
scientific and sociological evidence indicating a need for the exercise of judicial discretion in
determining the appropriate setting for the proceedings in these juvenile cases”; and
WHEREAS, automatic transfer prevents any consideration by a judge of the particular characteristics of
a child, the crime, or the child’s role in the crime in determining the appropriate venue for sentencing;
and
WHEREAS, automatically transferring youth accused of certain crimes ignores the scientific research
and the underlying philosophy of the juvenile court; and

Page 3 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, Every child in Illinois deserves a fair hearing in front of a juvenile court judge to determine
whether their case is more appropriately handled in juvenile or adult court; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of justice to restore judicial discretion in all decisions relating to the
transfer of a child to adult court;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby urge the Illinois General Assembly to pass HB 172, which ends the Automatic Transfer of youth
to adult court and restores judicial discretion, by requiring a hearing in front of a juvenile court judge to
determine whether a child is suitable for the rehabilitative focus of the juvenile court or should be
transferred to adult court and sentenced as an adult; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of the Resolution be tendered to the Speaker of
the Illinois House of Representatives and the President of the Illinois Senate.

15-1217
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Esther Franco-Payne
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center Advisory Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 6/30/2016, or until a successor is appointed. Ms. Franco-Payne will fill the vacancy
of Lanetta Haynes Turner

15-1219
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Nelson Howard
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/21/2019, or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A

Page 4 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1221
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): John Zbesko
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/21/2019, or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A

15-1223
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Carol Blustein
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/21/2019, or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A

15-1225
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): William Zimmer
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 1/21/2019, or until a successor is appointed and qualified
Summary: N/A

Page 5 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

COMMISSIONERS

15-0710
Sponsored by: JOHN A. FRITCHEY, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CALLING FOR INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL INVESTIGATION OF THE COOK
COUNTY ANIMAL AND RABIES CONTROL DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, during testimony at the public hearings for the FY2015 Cook County Annual
Appropriation Bill and through email correspondence sent to the Board of Commissioners by residents,
concerns arose about the handling of stray dogs and cats as well as the overall operation and the budget
appropriation of the department; and
WHEREAS, the recent tragic discovery of several dead dogs and a cat that later died as well as many
other dogs that showed signs of serious and life-threatening neglect at a Dolton animal hospital shed light
on the need to look at the policies in place at the Cook County Animal and Rabies Control department;
and
WHEREAS, Cook County does not have a holding facility for stray animals, unlike most Illinois
counties, requiring municipalities to impound and hold strays or to contract with a private facility for said
services; and
WHEREAS, because the county doesn’t have a facility nor a micro-chip database for animals chipped
through Animal Control, owners may not be able to find their stray pet and could possibly end up having
their pet euthanized; and
WHEREAS, due to Cook County Animal Control’s limited hours of operation, residents have
encountered difficulty in contacting and getting assistance from County Animal Control, and municipal
police and Cook County sheriff’s police often must act as police as well as take on the additional burden
of animal control warden for after hours and holiday animal related service calls; and
WHEREAS, it is the fiduciary duty of this government to ensure that each county agency is acquiring,
managing, protecting, and using its resources, including public funds, personnel, property, equipment,
and space, economically, efficiently, and effectively; and
WHEREAS, in order to assure the public that their taxpayer dollars are being budgeted and spent
appropriately and to assuage citizens’ concerns voiced during this year’s budget hearings regarding the
policies and operation of our Animal Control Department;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners, does hereby
request an independent investigation of the Cook County Animal and Rabies Control Department be
conducted by the Cook County Independent Inspector General pursuant to the Cook County Independent
Inspector General Ordinance (Ch.2, Article IV, Div.5).

Page 6 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1044
Sponsored by: ELIZABETH "LIZ" DOODY GORMAN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
MEDICAL EXAMINER ADVISORY COMMITTEE ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 38 Health and Human
Services, Article VI. Medical Examiner, Division 1. Generally, Section 38-132. of the Cook County
Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 38-132. - Advisory committee.
(a)There shall be created a Medical Examiner's Advisory Committee (“Committee”) made up of 11
members appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners with the advice and
consent of the Board of Commissioners. The Committee shall act in an advisory capacity to the County
Board and will consider those matters referred to it by the County Board or the Medical Examiner of Cook
County pertaining to the handling, storage and final disposition of decedents. When considering matters
referred by the County Board or the Medical Examiner of Cook County, the Committee shall keep the
dignity of the deceased at the forefront of their recommendations. Members shall include, but are not
limited to, at least one person from each of the following categories:
(1) A member of the medical profession;
(2) A clergyperson;
(3) A funeral director;
(4) An attorney from the Cook County State's Attorney Office;
(5) A Commissioner representing the people of Cook County One Cook County Commissioner to
serve as an Ex-officio Member with voting rights. The Ex-officio Member shall serve as a liaison
between the County Board and the Committee;
(6) A member of the Chicago Police Department;
(7) A representative from the Cook County Sheriff's Office; and
(8) A member of the public.
(b) Term and conditions of Office.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 38-132(b), the members of the Committee appointed under
Section 38-132(a) shall be appointed for two years.
(1) Ex-officio member. The ex-officio member shall be the appointed Cook County Commissioner
who shall serve as the ex-officio member for the length of the Commissioner’s term.

Page 7 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(2) The remaining members. The remaining seven (7) members of the Committee shall serve terms
as follows:
a. For the initial members whose appointments became effective July 10, 2012:
1. Four of the members whose term appointment became effective on July 10, 2012 shall
serve a term that expires on April 1, 2015; initial member terms expiring on April 1, 2015
include the member of the medical profession, the funeral director, the representative of the
Chicago Police Department and the representative from the Cook County Sheriff’s Office.
2. Three of the members whose term appointment became effective on July 10, 2012 shall
serve a term that expires on April 1, 2016; initial member terms expiring on April 1, 2016
include the clergyperson member, the attorney from the Cook County State’s Attorney’s
Office and the member of the public.
b. Thereafter, the members other than the ex-officio member appointed shall serve a term of two
years.
1. Each member, whether initial or subsequent, shall serve until a successor is appointed.
2. Any member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy caused by the
expiration of the predecessor’s term, shall serve until the expiration of this or her predecessor’s
term.
c. Other than the Ex-Officio Commissioner, a member may not serve more than two consecutive
full terms.
(bc)The members of this Committee shall serve without pay.
(cd) The members of this Committee shall attend meetings to be held at the Medical Examiner's Office on
a quarterly basis, beginning with the third quarter of the fiscal year in which this Ordinance is enacted.
(de) The Committee shall prepare an annual report. The report shall be distributed to the individual
members of the Board of Commissioners and the President's Office before January 31 of each year. The
report shall include minutes of meetings of the Advisory Committee over the past year, including a list of
attendees at each meeting, and any recommendations made by the Committee as a result of matters referred
to it by the County Board or the Medical Examiner of Cook County. for improving operations of the
Medical Examiner's Office and service to the residents of Cook County. The Medical Examiner's Office
shall provide administrative support as necessary.
(ef) The members of the Committee shall have a fiduciary responsibility to protect the dignity of the
deceased that are brought into the Cook County Medical Examiner's Office.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 8 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-0995
Presented by: TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RECONSIDERATION OF PREVISOUSLY APPROVED ITEM
Department:

Cook County Commissioner Timothy O. Schneider

Request: Move to reconsider a previously approved item
Item Number:

15-0749

Fiscal Impact:

N/A

Account(s): N/A
Summary: After having voted on the prevailing side while not being present for the vote, I hereby
request to reconsider an item for the purpose of recording my vote.

15-1220
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AN AMENDMENT TO THE PARLIAMENTARY RULES OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part 1 - General Ordinances,
Chapter 2 - Administration, Article III - County Board, Division 2 - Rules of Organization and
Procedure, Section 2-105(g) of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Section 2-105. - Board of Commissioners, Meetings of the Board
(g) Order of business.
(1) At each regular meeting of the Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed by the
Board) is as follows:
a. Public testimony.
b. Consent calendar.
c.b. New Business.
d.c. Committee Items Requiring Board Action
d.Consent Calendar .
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

Page 9 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1232
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI and JOHN P. DALEY, County Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Cook County Wage Theft Ordinance
BE IT ORDAINED , by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34, Finance, Article
IV, Procurement; Chapter 54, Licenses, Permits and Miscellaneous Business Regulations, Article X,
General Business Licenses; and Chapter 74, Taxation, Article 2, Real Property Taxation of the Cook
County Code are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-179. - Disqualification due to violation of Illinois Wage Payment Act or the Fair Labor
Standards Act, 29 U.S.C 201.
(a) Except for good cause shown, a person shall be ineligible to enter into a Contract or otherwise
participate in a Bid or Request for Proposal process with the County if such person, during the five year
period prior to the date of the submittal of the Bid or Proposal by the County, admitted guilt or liability or
has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated
or willful violation of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1, or the Fair Labor
Standards Act Of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et seq., or any comparable state statute or regulation of any state,
which governs the payment of wages.
(b) The CPO shall obtain an affidavit from every person with whom the County seeks to make a Contract
that such person meets the requirements of subsection (a).
(c) If the County becomes aware that a person during the five year period prior to the date of the submittal or
Bid or Proposal, such person admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any
judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a repeated or willful violation of the Illinois Wage
Payment And Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1, or the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C. 201, et
seq., then, after notice from the County, any such violation(s) shall constitute a default under the Contract.
Sec. 74-71. - Definition.
Property tax incentive. For the purpose of applicability of the Living Wage pursuant to Section 34-160 of
the County's Code, and the Laws Regulating the Payment of Wages, pursuant to Section 74-74, means a
reduction in the assessment level as set forth in Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this Code for
owner-occupied Class 6b industrial property, Class 8 industrial property, or Class 9 multifamily
residential property. For the purpose of this article, "property tax incentive" shall not include a Class 9
designation granted to supportive living facilities, which establish an alternative to nursing home care for
low income older persons and persons with disabilities under Medicaid and which are certified by the
State Department of Public Aid pursuant to Chapter 74, Article II, Division 2 of this Code, the County
Real Property Assessment Classification Ordinance.
Sales tax means the Retailer's Occupation Tax, the Service Occupation Tax and/or the Use Tax.

Page 10 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 74-74-Laws Regulating the Payment of Wages
(a) Unless expressly waived by the County Board, a Person shall be ineligible for any property tax incentive
if such Person, during the five year period prior to the date of the bid, admitted guilt or liability or has been
adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative proceeding of committing a willful violation, or
two or more violations which do not include a willful violation, of the Illinois Wage Payment and
Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 or the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C 201.
(b) The Assessor shall obtain an affidavit from every Person from whom the County seeks a property tax
incentive that such Person meets the requirements of Subsection (a).
(c) If the County becomes aware that a Person has, during the five year period prior to the date of the bid,
admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or administrative
proceeding of committing a willful violation, or two or more violations which do not include a willful
violation, of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS 115/1 or the Fair Labor Standards
Act, 29 U.S.C 201 prior to its application for a property tax incentive, but after the County has reclassified
the Person’s subject property under a property tax incentive classification then, after notice from the County
of such violation, the Person shall have 45 days to answer or cure said violation. Failure to cure or obtain a
waiver by the County Board shall serve as grounds for revocation of the classification pursuant to Sec.
74-73 (b).
LICENSES
Sec. 54-384. - License application.
All applications for a General Business License shall be made in writing and under oath to the Director of
Revenue on a form provided for that purpose.
(a) Every application for a County General Business License shall be submitted and signed by the Person
doing business or authorized representative of the Person doing business and shall contain the following:
(1) Name of the applicant.
(2) Business address.
(3) Social security numbers, Tax ID number, and residence addresses of its sole proprietor or the
three individuals who own the highest percentage interests in such Person and any other
individual who owns five percent or more interest therein.
(4) Pin number of the property or properties where the business is being operated.
(5) A brief description of the business operations plan.
(6) Sales tax allocation code. The sales tax allocation code identifies a specific sales tax
geographic area and is used by the State of Illinois for sales tax allocation purposes.
(7) Certification that applicant is in compliance with all applicable County Ordinances.

Page 11 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(8) Certification that applicant has not, during the five year period prior to the date of the bid,
admitted guilt or liability or has been adjudicated guilty or liable in any judicial or
administrative proceeding of committing a willful violation, or two or more violations which do
not include a willful violation, of the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act, 820 ILCS
115/1, or the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C 201.
(b) The Director of Revenue shall be the custodian of all applications for licenses which [sic] under
provisions of this Code. All information received by the Department from applications filed pursuant to this
article or from any investigations conducted pursuant to this article, except for official County purposes, or
as required by the Freedom of Information Act, shall be confidential.
(c) The General Business License applicant may be subject to an inspection by the following county
departments including, but not limited to, Health, Building and Zoning and the Environment, prior to
licensing.
(d) It shall be grounds for denial and/or revocation of any license issued under the provisions of this article
whenever the license applicant knowingly includes false or incomplete information in the license
application or is in violation of a County Ordinance.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect April 1, 2015
SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

15-1077
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
REPORT
Department: Secretary to the Board
Request: Receive and file
Report Title: RESOLUTION 14-4341 SPECIAL PURPOSE FUND REPORTING
Report Period: 4th Quarter FY 2014
Summary: Resolution 14-4341 directs that a report of all special purpose fund transactions be made to the
Secretary of the Cook County Board of Commissioners by the office or agency responsible for
administering each special purpose fund on a quarterly basis.
Reports shall be provided to the Secretary's office no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal quarter,
at which point the Secretary will aggregate the reports for distribution to the Board of Commissioners and
the Director of Budget and Management Services on the next available Board Agenda;
Reports shall be in a format as prescribed by the Director of Budget & Management Services. Such format
shall ensure that the reports contain sufficiently detailed supporting information as to the specifics of each
transaction and a justification regarding how each transaction relates to the purpose of the special purpose
fund.

Page 12 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1162
Presented by: MATTHEW B. DeLEON, Secretary to the Board
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Secretary to the Board
Vendor: Granicus, Inc. San Francisco, California
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Unlimited online storage and viewing capability of all meeting data and video,
including the public-facing website for the County Board of Commissioners and Forest Preserve District
Board of Commissioners
Current Contract Period: 1/1/2013-12/31/2013, with three (3) one (1) year renewal options.
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $102,116.16
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/4/2013, $51,058.08
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 1/17/2014, extension 1/1/2014
12/31/2014, $51,058.08
This Increase Requested: $51,058.08
Potential Fiscal Impact:

FY 2015, $51,058.08

Accounts: 018-260
Contract Number(s): 12-45-451
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Bureau of Technology concurs.
Summary: This is a request to exercise the second one-year renewal option as authorized in the original
contract. This contract allows for meeting information to be accessed by the public, commissioners and
staff through this service.

Page 13 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

This is a companion contract to the Granicus contract for which an extension was approved by the Board
on 10/8/2014. That contract provides the legislative database service which assembles the data for the
online services purchased through this contract.
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR

15-1055
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) Program Audit Report
Report Period: For the period ended 9/30/2014
Summary: The report was designed to assess and evaluate the administration and monitoring of the sub
recipient grants.

15-1056
Presented by: SHELLY A. BANKS, C.P.A., County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Request: Refer to Audit Committee
Report Title: Quarterly Findings Status Report
Report Period: For the quarter ended 11/30/2014
Summary: Status of open audit findings and recommendations
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES

15-1057
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
HERMAN BREWER, Chief, Bureau of Economic Development
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget & Management Services

Page 14 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bond Series Status Report - 2014 Fiscal Year, 4th Quarter ending 11/30/2014
Report Period: 9/1/2014 - 11/30/2014
Summary: The report consists of two sections; the first section defines the funding status for Capital
Improvement and the second section for Equipment. The report defines the bond funding status for
equipment and projects approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. It presents the projected
cost, adjustments to the projected cost, expenditures and commitments, unencumbered balances, existing
funding resources and future funding resources required for the approved projects after the end of each
quarter.

15-1062
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget & Management Services
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: 3rd Quarter, FY 2014 Transfer Requests $10,000.00 and Under
Report Period: 6/1/2014 - 8/31/2014
Summary: The report consists of the list of transfer requests $10,000.00 and under within and between
accounts for 2014 Fiscal Year, 3rd quarter ending 8/31/2014.

15-1064
Presented by: ANDREA GIBSON, Director, Department of Budget and Management Services
REPORT
Department: Department of Budget & Management Services
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: 4th Quarter, FY 2014 Transfer Requests $10,000.00 and Under
Report Period: 9/1/2014 - 11/30/2014
Summary: The report consists of the list of transfer requests $10,000.00 and under within and between
accounts for 2014 Fiscal Year, 4th quarter ending 11/30/2014.

Page 15 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

15-0940
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period:

12/02/2014 - 12/24/2014

Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement Code
Chapter 34-125(k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product of service provided.
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE

15-1045
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ARTICLE VII. - USE TAX
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 74, Taxation, Article
VII., Use Tax, Sections 74-271 and 74-273 of the Cook County Code are hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 74-271. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Page 16 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Aircraft means a device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air.
Aircraft hangar means a shelter for housing or repairing aircraft.
Aircraft hangar operator means any person who is the owner, operator or manager of an aircraft hangar
located in the County.
County means Cook County, Illinois.
Contrivance [sic].
Department means the Department of Revenue.
Director means the director of the Department of Revenue or duly authorized representative.
Dock means a waterfront, pier, harbor, port, that serve as a landing area for watercraft.
Docking facility means a place for securing or storing watercraft or a place where watercraft can be moored
or secured from drifting away.
Lessor means any person engaged in the business of leasing, to others, tangible personal property. Lessors
of Tangible Personal Property are the users of such property.
Moor means to fasten with or as fastened with cables, lines, anchors or otherwise.
Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is propelled by electric
power obtained from overhead trolley wires but not operated upon rails, including, but not limited to,
aircraft, watercraft, cars, trucks or other similar vehicles; the term motor vehicle does not include vehicles
moved solely by human power, motorized wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas
bicycles.
Motor vehicle dealer means any person who, in the ordinary course of business, is engaged in the business
of selling new or used motor vehicles to consumers or other end users.
Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association and any other
legal entity.
Pole trailer means every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle and
attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the
towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting
connections.
Purchase at retail means the acquisition, through a sale at retail, of ownership of or title to tangible personal
property which is titled or registered with an agency of the State of Illinois.
Purchaser means any person who, through a sale at retail, acquires the ownership of or title to tangible
personal property which is titled or registered with an agency of the State of Illinois.

Page 17 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Recreational vehicle means every camping trailer, motor home, mini-motor home, travel trailer, truck
camper or van camper used primarily for recreational purposes and not used commercially nor owned by
a commercial business.
Retailer means every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail of tangible personal property
which is titled or registered with an agency of the state. A person who is engaged in the business of leasing
or renting motor vehicles to others and who in connection with such business sells any used motor vehicle
to a purchaser for such purchaser's use and not for the purpose of resale, is a retailer engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property at retail under this article to the extent of the value of the vehicle
sold. For the purpose of this section, the term "motor vehicle" shall have the meaning provided by 625 ILCS
5/1-146 (motor vehicle defined).
Retailer maintaining a place of business in the County or any like term means and includes any retailer:
(1) Having or maintaining within the County, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution
house, sales house, warehouse or other place of business or any agent or other representative
operating within the County under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of
whether such place of business or agent or other representative is located in the County
permanently or temporarily;
(2) Making or effectuating sales for delivery into the County; or
(3) Owning or possessing real or personal property located or used in the County for the purpose
of or incidental to the making of sales at retail as defined in this article.
(4) Any retailer engaged in the business of making, outside Cook County, sales of tangible
personal property titled or registered with the State of Illinois at a location inside Cook County,
who has obtained a valid Cook County Use Tax certificate of registration.
Sale at retail means any transfer for valuable consideration of the ownership of or title to tangible personal
property which is to be titled or registered to a person at a location in the County with an agency of the State,
for use in the County, where such transfer is not for the purpose of resale in any form as tangible personal
property. Transactions whereby the possession of property is transferred but the seller retains title as
security for payment of the selling price with transfer of title effected upon full payment of the selling price
shall be deemed to be sales at retail. Sale at retail shall be construed to include any transfer of the ownership
of or title to tangible personal property which is titled or registered with an agency of the state, to a
purchaser for use by any other person, to whom such purchaser may transfer, whether made for or without
valuable consideration, for resale in any form as tangible personal property as defined in this article, unless
made in compliance with Section 74-278. Sale at retail includes any transfer of, ownership of or title to
tangible personal property as defined in this article, for use in the County incidental to a sale of service. The
isolated or occasional sale at retail by a person who does not hold himself out as being engaged in or who
does not habitually engage in selling titled or registered tangible personal property at retail, is not a sale at
retail.
Selling price shall have the meaning as set forth in the Illinois Use Tax Act, 35 ILCS 105/2, or any
successor statute means the consideration received for a motor vehicle valued in money, whether received
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, service, or property; but not including the value of or credit
given for traded-in tangible personal property where the item that is traded-in is of like kind and character as

Page 18 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

that which is being sold, and selling price shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost or any similar expense.
Tangible personal property means tangible personal property which is titled or registered, with an agency
of the State of Illinois, to a person at a location within the corporate limits of the County.
Tax or use tax means the tax imposed by this article, unless the context requires construction otherwise.
Tax collector means a retailer maintaining a place of business within the County.
Trailer means Recreational Trailers; TA Trailers; and Flat Weight (625 ILCS 5/1-209) titled or registered
with the State of Illinois at a location inside Cook County.
Use means the exercise by any person of any right to or power over tangible personal property incident to
the ownership of that property. The term "use" does not mean the interim holding of tangible personal
property by a retailer before the retailer sells such tangible personal property or the incidental use of such
property in the regular course of such business for sales demonstration purposes.
Use in Cook County means tangible personal property titled or registered, at a location in Cook County,
with an agency of the State of Illinois.
User means any person whose name is on the tangible personal property title or registration.
Watercraft means every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as a means of transportation
on water, except a seaplane on the water, inner-tube, air mattress or similar device, and boats used for
concession rides in artificial bodies of water designed and used exclusively for such concessions.
Watercraft dock operator means any person who owns, operates or manages a dock located in the County.
Sec. 74-273. - Purchaser paying tax directly to department.
(a) When tangible personal property is purchased from a retailer for use in the County by a purchaser or
user subject to the tax imposed by this article, and who did not pay the tax imposed by this article to the
retailer, and who did not file returns with the Department as a retailer under Section 74-275276, such
purchaser or user shall, by the last day of calendar month in which such purchase was made, file and return
with the Department and pay the tax due under this article.
(b) When tangible personal property is purchased by a lessor, which is subject to a lease for one year or
longer, executed or in effect at the time of purchase, to an interstate carrier for hire, where such lessor did
not pay the tax imposed by this article to the retailer at the time of purchase, such lessor shall, by the last day
of the calendar month in which such property reverts to the use of such lessor, of such property on the date
of reversion.
(c) When a purchaser or user pays the tax imposed by this article directly to the Department, the
Department shall issue an appropriate receipt to such purchaser or user showing that the tax has been paid to
the Department. Such receipt shall be sufficient to relieve the purchaser or user from further liability for the
tax to which the receipt may refer.

Page 19 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(d) A purchaser or user who is liable to pay use tax directly to the Department only occasionally and not on
a frequent recurring basis, and who is not required to file returns with the Department as a retailer under
Section 74-275276 concerning the filing of regular monthly tax returns and all provisions concerning the
requirements of registrants to post bond or other security with the Department shall apply to such
purchasers or users; except that such a purchaser or user shall not be entitled to the two percent discount
provided in Section 74-275 on any remittance, when such purchaser or user could have paid the tax to the
retail seller of the property who was a registered tax collector for the County, instead of remitting the use tax
directly to the Department.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect January 1, 2015.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

15-1021
Presented by: MARTHA MARTINEZ, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Bureau of Administration, Printing and Graphic Services (PGS)
Vendor: Montenegro Paper, Ltd., Roselle, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Various Types of Paper - Countywide
Contract Value: $4,811,269.24
Contract period: 2/1/2015 - 1/31/2017, with two (2) one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $2,004,695.52; FY 2016 $2,405,634.61; FY 2017
$400,939.11
Accounts: Various - 350 Accounts
Contract Number(s): 1484-14136
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Procurement Code.
On 11/14/2014, bids were solicited to purchase paper. Montenegro Paper, Ltd. was the lowest,
responsive and responsible bidder.

Page 20 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

This is a Countywide contract for various types of paper (photocopier, offset, index, tag, photo,
carbonless, etc.).
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER

15-0657
Presented by: STEPHEN J. CINA, M.D., Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Vendor: Agilent Technologies, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Medical Equipment
Contract Value: $822,319.95
Contract period: 2/1/2015 - 12/31/2017
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2014 $822,319.95
Accounts: 1425908661-540
Contract Number(s): 1428-14002
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer Concurs.
Summary: The Office of the Medical Examiner is requesting to enter into a contract with Agilent
Technologies, Inc., for new toxicology equipment to replace old equipment. The new equipment is
compatible with existing equipment that is used in the Toxicology Laboratory.

Page 21 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

15-0795
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project, Highway Maintenance Resolution Electrical and Mechanical
Item. Maintenance for Calendar Year 2016 at Various Locations Maintenance Resolution.
Section: 16-8EMIM-44-GM
Maintenance District(s): Maintenance #1, 2, 3, 4 and 5
County Board District(s): 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 13-17
Fiscal Impact: $4,002,600.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a
resolution appropriating funds for the contract maintenance and operation services of traffic signals and
flashers at 460 locations, 30 roadway lighting and 5 interior lighting installations, 5 navigational lighting
installations, 7 pumping stations and 5 cathodic protection locations, to be more fully described in
subsequent contract documents and includes energy charges for traffic signals and pumping stations,
contingencies for possible temporary signal installations and knockdown replacement on County
maintained highways for the calendar year 2016 and includes supervision by County Forces.
These services are required by the Department to maintain the electrical and mechanical items on our
roadway network to ensure public safety and traffic control.

15-0796
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): City of Harvey in the State of Illinois
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Harvey wherein the City will be the

Page 22 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

lead agency for design and construction of an improvement along 167th Street from Center Street to
Lowe Avenue, in the City of Harvey to be identified as Cook County Section: 14-B5932-01-RP.
County Board District: 5
Centerline Mileage: 0.71 miles
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $3,400,000.00 ($2,500,000.00 to be reimbursed from DCEO grant award)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)
Summary: Illinois Department of Transportation Economic Development Program funding will pay for
a maximum $2,000,000.00 of the project construction costs; the County will advance Motor Fuel Tax
Funds and be reimbursed by a Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity grant up to a
maximum of $2,500,000.00 and County will also pay its share, which totals $900,000.00; and the City of
Harvey will be responsible for the remaining balance, an estimated $250,000.00 toward the
improvement. The estimated construction cost $5,650,000.00).This Agreement is necessitated by the
improvement which is needed to ensure safe, comfortable and sustainable highways in accordance with
the Department’s mission statement.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department and by the State’s Attorney’s
Office.

15-0797
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Illinois Department of Transportation
Request: Authorization to enter into an interagency agreement
Description: Local Agency Agreement for State Participation, with the State of Illinois. Wherein Cook
County will be the lead agency to distribute 2014 Capital Bill funding to various Townships, to be
identified as Cook County Section: 14-TWSHP-01-MS and State Job Number: C-91-191-15. The State of
Illinois is allocating funding up to a maximum $30,694.47 toward 2014 Capital Bill Special Joint
Funding Agreement for various Township distributions within Cook County. This Agreement is
necessary to receive 2014 Capital Bill distribution to mirror the Illinois Jobs Now distribution to various
Townships within Cook County. Further, the 2014 Capital Bill Funding supports development of the
regional economy in accordance with the Department’s mission statement. The Agreement has been
examined and approved by this Department.
Location: Various Township Locations

Page 23 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

County Board District: 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)

15-0800
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Progress Report
Report Period:

Ending 11/30/2014

Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Construction Bureau Progress Report ending 11/30/2014.

15-1014
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Illinois Department of Transportation, in the Village of Schaumburg, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an interagency agreement
Description: The Department of Transportation and Highways submits an Economic Development
Program Agreement between the State of Illinois and the County of Cook, wherein Cook County will be
the lead agency to let, award a contract and supervise roadway reconstruction and resurfacing
improvements including concrete curb and gutter removal and replacement, drainage additions and
adjustments, pavement marking, signing and landscaping along 156th Street and 157th Street from
Commercial Avenue to Halsted Street, to be identified as Cook County Section: 14-15632-01-FP State
Job Number: C-91-184-15 (estimated construction cost $2,800,000.00). The State will pay for a
maximum $1,133,884.00 of the project construction costs and the County of Cook will be responsible for
the remaining balance, an estimated $1,666,116.00. Further, this Department is coordinating with the
Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for the allocation of $150,000.00 toward
this improvement. This Agreement is necessitated by the improvement and is needed to provide a safe

Page 24 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

and sustainable highway to accommodate increased truck and vehicular traffic associated with a new
commercial development and supports development of the regional economy in accordance with the
Department’s mission statement.
The Agreement has been examined and approved by this Department.
Location: 156th Street and 157th Street, Commercial Avenue to Halsted Street in the City of Harvey.
County Board District: 5
Centerline Mileage: 0.83
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $2,800,000.00 ($1,133,884.00 to be reimbursed from the State of Illinois)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)

15-1015
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type:

Motor Fuel Tax Project Improvement Resolution

Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption a resolution
appropriating funds for the improvement of 156th Street from Commercial Avenue to Halsted Street, and
157th Street from Commercial Avenue to Halsted Street in the City of Harvey. This improvement, as
proposed, will consist of: (1) reconstructing 156th Street by removing and replacing the existing asphalt
pavement with new Hot-Mix Asphalt (HMA) Pavement, removal of abandoned railroad tracks and
railroad car scale; and (2) resurfacing 157th Street by removing the existing asphalt surface and replacing
it with new HMA, repairing the existing concrete base, removing and replacing the existing curb and
gutter, and replacement of the existing sewer. Work for both locations includes drainage adjustments,
replacement of existing street lighting, ADA sidewalk ramps, traffic control and protection, pavement
marking, landscaping, engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
Location: 156th Street, 157th Street from Commercial Avenue to Halsted Street in the City of Harvey
Section: 14-15632-01-FP
County Board District(s): 5
Centerline Mileage: 0.83

Page 25 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Fiscal Impact: $3,000,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Summary: This improvement is needed to protect the public investment in the highway system and
provide safe, efficient and sustainable highways. LB Steel, LLC in the City of Harvey employs 225 union
workers and has had to pay a premium for truck shipments from this facility as a result of the poor
condition of local roads such that loaded trucks are at risk of tipping. LB Steel LCC expects to add 65
new employees over the next three years and has committed to staying in the City of Harvey if
infrastructure improvements can be made to allow it to operate safely and efficiently.

15-1020
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Monthly Status Progress Report
Report Period: Ending 12/31/2014
Summary: Submitted is a copy of the Construction Bureau Progress Report ending 12/31/2014.

15-1039
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Supplemental
Request: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges
Project: This improvement, as proposed, included the removal of the existing bituminous pavement and
reconstruction in kind, the addition of bituminous shoulders, drainage additions and adjustments,
driveway reconstruction, guardrail removal and replacement, landscaping, signing, pavement marking,
engineering, and other necessary highway appurtenances.
Location: 108th Avenue, 153rd Street to 143rd Street in the Village of Orland Park.
Section: 95-W7510-01-FP
County Board District: 17

Page 26 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Centerline Mileage: 1.27
Fiscal Impact: $995,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600 - 585 Account)
Board Approved Date and Amount: 4/5/1995, $2,300,000.00
Increased Amount: $995,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $3,295,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption, a
supplemental improvement resolution appropriating additional funds for the improvements along 108th
Avenue from 153rd Street to 143rd Street in the Village of Orland Park.
On 4/5/1995, your Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution in the amount of
$2,300,000.00. Additional funding is needed due to expansion of the improvement scope to include tree
removal and replacement, ditch grading and pipe culvert installations, as well as junction chamber
construction to complete the improvement. The construction was accepted on 11/29/2007, and this
supplement is necessary for accounting closure.

15-1040
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type:

Motor Fuel Tax Project Supplemental Improvement Resolution

Request: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges
Project: Reconstruction of Cottage Grove Avenue between Lincoln Avenue and 142nd Street with Hot
Mix Asphalt (HMA); full depth concrete pavement patching between 142nd Street and the Indiana
Harbor Belt (IHB) Railroad; bituminous reconstruction to three-lanes between the IHB Railroad and
138th Street including grade crossing renewal, curb and gutter, an enclosed drainage system, pavement
marking, signing, landscaping and engineering and other necessary highway appurtenances.
Location: Cottage Grove Avenue, Lincoln Avenue to 138th Street in the Village of Dolton
Section: 98-W5812-03-PV
County Board District: 6
Centerline Mileage: 0.91

Page 27 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Fiscal Impact: $4,625,000.00
Accounts:

Motor Fuel Tax Fund (600-585 Account)

Board Approved Date and Amount: 6/8/1999, $1,500,000.00
Increased Amount: $4,625,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $6,125,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption, a
supplemental improvement resolution appropriating additional funds for the improvements along Cottage
Grove Avenue from Lincoln Avenue to 138th Street in the Village of Dolton.
On 6/8/1999, your Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution in the amount of
$1,500,000.00. Additional funding is needed due to expansion of the improvement scope to include
milling the existing four lane wide surface, full depth patching of cracks and deteriorated joints, new
storm sewer and connection to the replaced combined sewer, construction of new 12 ft. right-turn and
left-turn lanes, construction of a concrete triple box culvert, concrete sidewalks, installation of new
traffic signal; relocation of existing light poles; fire hydrant installations and adjustments. The
construction was accepted on 7/21/2009, and this supplement is necessary for accounting closure.

15-1041
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND
HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project Supplemental Improvement
Request: Refer to the Committee of Roads and Bridges
Project: This improvement, as proposed, consisted of pavement reconstruction with bituminous
materials, installation of an enclosed drainage system, continuous left turn lane, curb and gutter, culvert
replacement, traffic signal installation, railroad grade crossing renewal, right-of-way acquisition,
pavement markings, traffic protection, landscaping, consultant design with review by County Forces, and
construction engineering.
Location: 123rd Street, Cicero Avenue to Kedzie Avenue in the Village of Alsip.
Section: Section: 01-B7528-05-PV
County Board District: 6
Centerline Mileage: 2.25

Page 28 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Fiscal Impact: $3,525,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Fund: (600-585 Account)
Board Approved Date and Amount: 5/15/2001 $9,000,000.00
Increased Amount: $3,525,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $12,525,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits for adoption, a
supplemental improvement resolution appropriating additional funds for the improvements along 123rd
Street from Cicero Avenue to Kedzie Avenue in the Village of Alsip.
On 5/15/2001, your Honorable Body approved an Improvement Resolution in the amount of
$9,000,000.00. Additional funding is needed due to expansion of the improvement scope to include the
removal of existing twin elliptical pipe culverts and concrete headwalls at the Merrionette Park Ditch,
replacement of the pipe culverts and headwalls with a new cast-in-place concrete box culvert; installation
of a junction chamber; installation of water main and service connections; new roadway lighting;
removal of the existing traffic signal interconnect work; temporary traffic signals; installation of 12 ft.
right-turn lanes along the west and east legs at Pulaski Road; concrete and bituminous driveway
reconstruction; removal of the existing guard rail and installation of new guard rail; signing and striping;
temporary by-pass pavement; and other related work. The construction was completed on 11/22/2006,
and this supplement is necessary for accounting closure.

15-1053
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CLASS II TRUCK ROUTE CLASSIFCIATION RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the County of Cook, through the Superintendent of Department of Transportation and
Highways is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of certain public
highways under the jurisdiction of the County of Cook; and
WHEREAS, it is the obligation of the County of Cook, through said Superintendent of Department of
Transportation and Highways, to keep said highways in a state of repair and condition conducive to the best
interests of the public safety, convenience and necessity; and
WHEREAS, the State of Illinois has established regulations governing weights and dimensions for
commercial freight trucks, established a classification system and has designated certain routes along its
highway system suitable for use based upon said classifications; and
WHEREAS, it is at the discretion of local authorities to adopt said regulations and so designate roads
within their system adjacent to the State Truck Route System based upon said classification; and

Page 29 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, has the Department of Transportation and Highways has identified Center Street, Cook
County Highway W52, within the corporate limits of the City of Harvey to be designated as a Class II
Truck Route capable of supporting and sustaining commercial freight truck traffic loads of up to 80,000
pounds; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Transportation and Highways has investigated the merits of the
reclassification and determined that Center Street can support and sustain Class II truck loading; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby
designate Center Street, Cook County Highway W52, within the corporate limits of City of Harvey as a
Class II Truck Route; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that signs be erected along said route designating Center Street Class
II Truck Route from 159th Street to 171st Street; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution shall take effect and be in full force on and after
its approval and that a copy of this Resolution be transmitted to the City of Harvey Police, the Sheriff of
Cook County and to the Illinois State Police; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit two (2) CERTIFIED
COPIES OF THIS Resolution to the District Office of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS

15-0405
Presented by: JOHN ALLEN, Director, Department of Administrative Hearings
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Administrative Hearings
Other Part(ies): Northeast Illinois Regional Commuter Rail Corporation (“METRA”), a separate public
corporation of the Commuter Rail Board of the Regional Transportation Authority
Request: Approval
Goods or Services: Allows Administrative Hearings to adjudicate citations written by METRA Police
and other authorized personnel.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-Time Agreement
Fiscal Impact: Revenue Generating IGA - $42,000.00 Annually
Accounts: N/A

Page 30 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Summary: This proposal allows Administrative Hearings to accept and adjudicate citations that are
written by METRA Police or conductors against individuals that violate county ordinances on METRA
trains and other property. This item has been reviewed and approved as to form by the Office of the Cook
County State’s Attorney.

15-0559
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 6
– Alcoholic Liquor of the Cook County Code is hereby repealed and Chapter 6, Liquor Control Act is
hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 6-1. Short Title.
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Liquor Control Act.
Sec. 6-2. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning. All words and phrases used in this Chapter which are defined in the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) shall have the same meaning herein as
they have in such Act.
Alcohol means the product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified or
diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol, but not
including denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
Alcoholic Liquor means any alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or solid,
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a
human being. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with acts of congress and
regulations promulgated thereunder, or to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one
percent (0.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume
Applicant means an individual, partnership or corporation or any other legal entity which
seeks and is required to be licensed under the provisions of this Chapter. In the case of a
corporation, it shall mean the officers, directors, all persons owning directly or beneficially
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation and the person operating as
manager of the premises. In the case of a combination grocery/drugstore, "applicant" shall
mean the officers, directors, all persons owning, directly or beneficially, more than five
percent (5%) of the stock of the entity having charge of the licensed premises and any
person operating as a manager of the premises.

Page 31 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Beer means an alcoholic beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes but is not limited
to beer, ale, stout, lager, and porter.
Beer Garden means a privately owned outdoor location adjacent to the premises licensed
for consumption on the premises – incidental activity or as a tavern or club, where
alcoholic liquor may be sold and consumed subject to the provisions governing beer garden
licenses
Club means a corporation organized under the laws of the state of Illinois, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common objective other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, and owning or leasing a building or space in a building
for the use of its members and provided with a suitable and adequate kitchen and dining
room for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and their guests; and
operated solely for objects of national, state or local social, patriotic, recreational,
benevolent or similar purpose.
Convenience store means a retail business with a primary emphasis placed on providing
the public with a convenient location to quickly purchase from a wide array of consumable
products (predominantly food or gasoline) and services. Convenience stores include the
following characteristics: Stock of at least 500 SKUs (stock-keeping units) and Product
mix including grocery-type items and also include items from the following groups:
beverages; snacks (including confectionery); pharmaceutical items and tobacco.
Employee means any agent, manager, employee, entertainer, barkeeper, host, hostess,
waiter, waitress or other such person employed in an establishment having obtained a
liquor license on any contractual basis, or receiving any remuneration for services.
Firearm means any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or escape of gas;
excluding, however excluded from this definition are:
(a) Any pneumatic gun, spring gun, paint ball gun, or B-B gun which expels a
single globular projectile not exceeding .18 inch in diameter or which has a
maximum muzzle velocity of less than 700 feet per second;
(b) Any pneumatic gun, spring gun, paint ball gun, or B-B gun which expels
breakable paint balls containing washable marking colors;
(c) Any device used exclusively for signaling or safety and required or
recommended by the United States Coast Guard or the Interstate Commerce
Commission;
(d) Any device used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges, explosive rivets
or similar industrial ammunition; and
(e) An antique firearm (other than a machine-gun) which, although designed as a
weapon, the Department of State Police finds by reason of the date of its
manufacture, value, design, and other characteristics is primarily a collector's
item and is not likely to be used as a weapon.

Page 32 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Hotel means every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held
out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential.
Illinois Liquor Control Commission means the state commission created by the Illinois
Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended ("Act"), 235 ILCS 5/3-1 et seq.
License means a license which has been issued pursuant to this Chapter
Licensee means a person to whom a retailer’s liquor license been issued pursuant to this
Chapter and includes an employee or agent of a licensee.
Licensed establishment means any place of business for which a retailer’s liquor license
has been issued pursuant to this Chapter.
Live Music includes music sung or played on the premises by the performer and recorded
music played on the premises by a disc jockey.
Liquor means alcoholic liquor as defined in this Section.
Off-site catering means the preparation of food at one location for service at another
location.
Outside caterer means a person who performs off-site catering by preparing food at one
location for service at a location within the unincorporated Cook County.
Patron means any customer, patron or visitor of a licensed establishment who is not
employed by the licensee of such establishment.
Person means any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation or other legal entity, whether acting in his or its own capacity or as
administrator, executor, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by a court.
Whenever the word “Person” is used in any section of this Chapter prescribing a penalty or
fine as applied to partnerships or associations, the word shall include the partners or
members thereof, and such word as applied to corporations shall include the officers,
agents or employees thereof who are responsible for any violation of said section.
Premises means the place of business or other completely enclosed location particularly
described in a retailer’s liquor license where alcoholic liquor is stored, displayed, offered
for sale or where drinks containing alcoholic liquor are mixed, concocted or poured and
served for consumption. This term shall not include sidewalks, streets or other portions of
the public way or private parking areas.
Restaurant means any other public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly
served pursuant to the required licenses and provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen

Page 33 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

and dining room equipment and capacity, and having employed therein a sufficient number
and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable meals for its guests.
Retailer’s liquor license means a license issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner,
pursuant to this Chapter, to sell alcoholic liquor, at retail.
Sheriff means the Sheriff of Cook County
Unincorporated Cook County means all territory within the geographical limits of the
County, which is not within the boundaries of any city, town or village.
Sec. 6-3. Applicability.
This Chapter applies to retail sales of alcoholic liquor which occur within unincorporated
Cook County and to activities related to consumption and distribution of alcoholic liquor
which may endanger public safety and welfare.
Sec. 6-4. Appointment of Liquor Control Commissioner.
The Office of the Liquor Control Commissioner is hereby established. The Liquor Control
Commissioner shall be the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners or shall
be appointed by the President with the approval of the Cook County Board. The Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be charged with the administration of the provisions of this
Chapter, the Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended, (235 ILCS 5/1-1et seq), and such
other ordinances, regulations and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted.
Sec. 6-5. Powers of the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(a) The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers, functions and
duties with respect to licenses, other than licenses to manufacturers, importing
distributors, distributors, foreign importers, non-resident dealers, non-beverage users,
brokers, railroads, airplanes and boats:
1. To grant, suspend for cause and revoke for cause licenses issued pursuant to
this Chapter.
2. To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any
premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the Liquor Control
Commissioner or by the State Commission have been or are being violated,
and at such time to examine said premises of said licensee in connection
therewith;
3. To notify the Illinois Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986 (835 ILCS 105/1 et. seq.) or a
foreign corporation functioning as a club in this State under a certificate of

Page 34 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

authority issued under that Act has violated this Chapter by selling or offering
for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s liquor license;
4. To receive complaints from any person alleging that the provisions of this
Chapter or the Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended, (235 ILCS 5/1-1et
seq) or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are
being violated and to act upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter
provided;
5. To levy fines in accordance with this Chapter and the Liquor Control Act of
1934, as amended, 235 ILCS 5/1-1et seq)
6. To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a license or
for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served in the manner hereinafter provided, and to
examine or cause to be examined, the books and records of any such applicant
or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his or her information in the
performance of his or her duties, and for such purpose to issue subpoenas
which shall be effective in any part of Illinois.
7. To require fingerprints of any applicant for a retailer’s liquor license.
8. To promulgate regulations relating to the enforcement of this Chapter and the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended (235 ILCS 5/1-1et seq).
9. To register outside caterers and revoke the registration of outside caterers
pursuant to this Chapter.
(b) For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Liquor Control
Commissioner under this Chapter, the Liquor Control Commissioner may authorize
his or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
Sec. 6-6. Retailer’s liquor license required.
(a) No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor in unincorporated Cook County
without first having obtained a County retailer’s liquor license for each premise where
the retailer is located to sell the same. Any violation of a provision in this article shall
be punishable by a fine of not less than $1,000 or more than $15,000. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs
or continues. Proceedings for administrative adjudication of alleged violations of this
Section shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2, Article IX,
of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.
(b) The annual fee for a retailer’s liquor license is hereby established and the fee for this
license is set out in Section 32-1.

Page 35 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(c) Every license shall be valid for a period of one year from the May 1 to the following
April 30. Except as herein otherwise provided, every license shall be subject to the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) and shall be
subject to all laws, resolutions and regulations now in force and effect or which may
hereinafter be enacted, adopted, or approved relating to alcoholic liquor.
(d) No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor in unincorporated Cook County in
violation of any part or portion of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended, 235
ILCS 5/1-1et seq) or the provisions of this Chapter.
(e) No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, kept for sale, displayed or advertised for sale at
retail or delivered to any person purchasing same at retail, within unincorporated Cook
County except at a location, place, or premises described in a retailer’s liquor license.
(f) Where two or more locations, places or premises are under the same roof or at one
street address, a separate license shall be obtained for each such location, place or
premises, unless all the rooms which the licensee uses for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor are directly connected, adjacent and contiguous with and to each other. Each
license shall define with certainty the room or rooms in which liquor is to be sold. No
person licensed to sell liquor under a license, shall sell, give away or otherwise dispose
of alcoholic liquor at any place other than the place specifically described in their
license, whether such place be in the same building or not; provided that nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to prevent any hotel operator licensed under the
provisions of this article from serving alcoholic liquor to such person's registered
guests in any room or part of such person's hotel, if such liquor so served shall be kept
in and served from a licensed location, place or premises in the hotel as specified in the
license.. The foregoing provision shall apply only to hotels conducted and maintained
as such.
(g) A license for every location, place or premises licensed under the terms and by virtue
of the above provisions shall be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place
on the premises so licensed.
(h) When the United States government or any of its agencies issues a retailer liquor dealer
tax stamp for the existing tax period, then that issuance or possession shall constitute
prima facie evidence that such person is subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
Sec. 6-7. Application and License Fees.
Applications for retailer’s liquor license, late filing fees, late hour licenses, extended late
hour licenses, live music entertainment licenses, and beer garden licenses shall be made to
the Liquor Control Commissioner on forms provided by the Liquor Control
Commissioner. At the time application is made, the applicant shall pay to the Department
of Revenue the sum of all selected fees as set out in Section 32-1 for the licenses sought by
the applicant.

Page 36 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-8. Application Process for a Retailer’s Liquor License, Publication of Notice.
(a) When an application for a retailer’s liquor license is received by the Liquor Control
Commissioner, the Liquor Control Commissioner shall cause to be published a notice
that application has been made for such license in a daily newspaper of general
circulation, not devoted to any particular profession, trade or class of business in the
County, and a similar notice in the local newspaper published nearest to the premises
sought to be licensed. The published notice shall state the name of the applicant, the
resident address of the applicant, and the street number and location of the premises
covered by the application, and notify all persons that any objections to the granting of
the license shall be made to the Liquor Control Commissioner, in writing, signed by
the objector, within ten days, and stating specifically the grounds of their objection.
The cost of publication of the notices shall be paid by the applicant to the Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be set out in 32-1, in addition to the license fee required at
the time of the filing of the application for a license. No license shall be issued until 15
days after the first publication of the notice has elapsed. No publication shall be
necessary for the renewal of any license that has been issued after the original
publication.
(b) Each applicant shall submit his or her fingerprints to the Cook County Sheriff’s Office
in the form and manner prescribed by the Illinois State Police. These fingerprints shall
be forwarded by the Cook County Sheriff’s Office to the Illinois State Police and
checked against the fingerprint records now and hereafter filed in the Illinois State
Police and Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal history records databases. In the
event that criminal history information is recovered by the Illinois State Police, the
Cook County Sheriff shall forward to the Liquor Control Commissioner all
information received from the Illinois State Police relating to the criminal history of
the applicants.
(c) The applicant shall request the Cook County Department of Building and Zoning and
the Cook County Department of Public Health to inspect the premises sought to be
licensed to determine whether those premises conform to the relevant county building,
zoning and public health ordinances. No license shall be issued until the Cook
County Department of Building and Zoning reports to the Liquor Control
Commissioner that the premises sought to be licensed are in conformity with the
relevant building and zoning requirements and the Cook County Department of Public
Health reports to the Liquor Control Commissioner that the premises sought to be
licensed are in conformity with the relevant public health requirements.
(d) No license shall be issued unless the applicant provides satisfactory documentation of
liquor liability insurance (dram shop) coverage for the premises, in the aggregate
amount of at least one million dollars.
(e) In the discretion of the Liquor Control Commissioner, any misstatements made by the
applicant in the application shall be cause for denial of the application or revocation of
any license issued or sought to be issued under this Section.

Page 37 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-9. Late Payment of Renewal Fees.
(a) Renewal fees for retailer’s liquor licenses, beer garden licenses, late hour licenses,
extended late hour licenses and additional late liquor licenses shall be remitted to the
Liquor Control Commissioner on or before May 1.
(b) Remittance of renewal fees shall be considered late unless payment is actually received
by the Liquor Control Commissioner on or before the due date.
(c) Renewal fee payments received after May 1 shall be subject to a late fee. The late fee
shall be listed in Section 32-1.
Sec. 6-10. Refund of Fees Where the License Application Is Denied.
Where a license application is denied, payments for fingerprinting and publication are
nonrefundable; payments made for the license fee shall be refunded within 60 days of the
date of notice of decision to deny license application; however, $250.00 of the license fee
that was paid shall be non-refundable.
Sec. 6-11. Beer Garden License.
(a) The annual fee for a beer garden license is hereby established and the fee for this
license is set out in Section 32-1.
(b) In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 6-9 of this Chapter, an applicant for
a beer garden shall mail, by first class mail, notices to all persons who reside upon lots
lying within 1,000 feet of the property lines of the location for which the license is
sought. The applicant must file with the Liquor Control Commissioner the following:
(i) a certificate of service which shall consist of an affidavit signed by the person or
persons who effectuated the mailing, verifying the date of mailing and listing names
and addresses of individuals served; (ii) an affidavit verifying that all persons entitled
to notice under this section are listed in the certificate of service as having been served
with notice;(iii) a complete list containing the names and addresses of the persons
served with notice; and, (iv) a written statement certifying that the requirements of this
section have been met.
(c) This notice shall be sent to all persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are sent
as shown on the record of the Cook County Treasurer’s Office, and to all persons
residing on or in possession of portions of the premises whose names are listed on
mailboxes, bells or signs on the premises. When a condominium development is within
1,000 feet of the subject location, the notice need only be sent to the condominium
association. The notice shall be sent no sooner than 60 days and no later than 30 days
before the filing of the beer garden license application with the Liquor Control
Commissioner. Such notice shall state the name and residence address of the applicant,
the street number and location of the premises for which the license is sought, the type
of license sought, the hours of operation for the premises to be licensed, and the date on
which the application will be filed. The notice shall also state that any objection to the
granting of the license sought shall be made to the Liquor Control Commissioner, in

Page 38 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

writing, signed by the objector and sent before or within ten days after the date for
filing the application as indicated on the notice, and shall set forth the specific grounds
for the objection.
(d) At the time of filing the application for a beer garden license, the applicant shall furnish
the Liquor Control Commissioner a complete list containing the names and addresses
of the persons served with notice and the applicant shall also furnish to the Liquor
Control Commissioner a written statement certifying that the requirements of this
section have been complied with. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall not accept
an application for a beer garden license unless the applicant complies in all respects
with the requirements of this section. No beer garden license shall be issued to any
applicant who does not hold a retailer’s liquor license for the adjacent indoor premises
for which a beer garden license is sought.
Sec. 6-12. Live Music Entertainment License.
(a) The annual fee for a live music entertainment license is hereby established and the fee
for this license is set out in Section 32-1.
(b) Persons holding a Live Music Entertainment license shall have the privilege of
providing music within the licensed premises to which the privilege applies. Live
music is prohibited in any licensed establishment, unless the establishment has
received a live music entertainment license. In the event that the underlying retail
liquor license is terminated for any cause, the Live Music Entertainment License shall
immediately terminate. Additionally, any person holding a Live Music Entertainment
License must pay the county amusement tax for any event for which an entrance fee is
charged, unless a tax exemption applies.
(c) A Live Music Entertainment License shall not be issued to any applicant who does not
hold a retailer’s liquor license.
(d) No music entertainment license shall be issued to an outdoor location licensed as a beer
garden where such licensed premises is located within 1,000 feet of property used for
residential purposes.
Sec. 6-13. Special Event Licenses.
(a) A special event license is hereby established and the fee for this license is set out in
Section 32-1. A special event license may be issued to an educational, fraternal,
political, civic, religious, or non-profit organization and authorize the sale beer or
wine, or both, only for consumption at the location and on the dates designated on the
special event retail license. The decision to grant or deny the license shall be in the sole
discretion of the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(b) Such special event license shall be issued subject to the following conditions:
(1) No more than twelve (12) special one-day licenses shall be issued to any sales
address in any one (1) calendar year.

Page 39 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(2) No applicant shall receive more than twelve (12) special one-day licenses
within any one (1) calendar year.
(3) The applicant must obtain a special event license from the Illinois Liquor
Control Commission.
(4) The license shall authorize the consumption of beer and wine only.
(5) The sale of beer and wine shall only take place from 10:00 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.
(Monday through Thursday), from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. (Friday through
Sunday), from 12:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. (Sunday).
(6) The license shall be issued to and valid only for the "sales premises" described
on the application.
(7) No person under twenty-one (21) years of age will be allowed to purchase or
sell alcoholic liquor at licensed event
(8) The applicant must complete the entire application provided by the Liquor
Control Commissioner and agree in writing that the Liquor Control
Commissioner may revoke this license at any time at the absolute discretion of
the Liquor Control Commissioner and consent to all requirements, including
the requirement of immediate forfeiture without reason.
Sec. 6-14. Registration of Outside Caterers.
(a) The fee for an outside caterer registration is hereby established and the fee for this
registration as set out in Section 32-1. An outside caterer may register with the Liquor
Control Commissioner by: (1) presenting proof of a valid license for the preparation of
food for service off the licensed premises, issued by the appropriate licensing authority
of the jurisdiction in which the applicant's catering business is located; (2) presenting
proof of a valid license for the sale of alcoholic liquor, issued by the appropriate
licensing authority of the jurisdiction in which the applicant's catering business is
located; and, (3) presenting proof of dramshop insurance in an amount of at least
$1,000,000.
(b) A registered outside caterer may engage in the sale and service of alcoholic liquor on
the same terms and conditions as a holder of a Special Event License under this
Chapter on the dates, hours, and locations authorized by the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(c) The registration periods for each outside caterer shall be as required by the Liquor
Control Commissioner.
(d) The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke an outside caterer's registration for
violation of any ordinance or law and for engaging in any activities which would

Page 40 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

justify the revocation or suspension of a retailer’s liquor license. Procedures for
revocation shall be in accordance with the procedures for revocation of a business
license under Section 6-30.
(e) Revocation or suspension of an outside caterer's license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
or for the preparation and sale of food, issued by another jurisdiction, shall act as
revocation of the outside caterer's registration.
(f) A registered outside caterer must notify the local Liquor Control Commissioner of
each suspension or revocation of any such license by another jurisdiction, no later than
the business day following the suspension or revocation. For purposes of this section,
Saturday is a business day. Notification must be in writing, delivered by the outside
caterer or by messenger or transmitted by e-mail, facsimile to a telephone number
designated by the local Liquor Control Commissioner.
Sec. 6-15. Books and Records Available for Investigation and Control.
It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records available upon
reasonable notice upon request of the Liquor Control Commissioner. Such books and
records need not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained within the
boundaries of the State of Illinois; however, if access is available electronically, the books
and records may be maintained out of state at the location of the electronically based
storage facility. All original invoices or copies thereof covering purchases of alcoholic
liquor must be retained on the licensed premises for a period of 90 days after such
purchase, unless the Liquor Control Commissioner has granted a waiver in response to a
written request in cases where records are kept at a central business location within the
State of Illinois or in cases where books and records that are available electronically are
maintained out of state.
Sec. 6-16. Privilege Granted by License; Nature as to Property; Transferability; Tax
Delinquencies.
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good and valid for only May 1st through
April 30th of the year of issuance, unless sooner revoked or suspended as in this Chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall terminate and cease upon
the death of the licensee, provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate
consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor
under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or
insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not longer than six months after the
death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.

Page 41 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-17. License Issuance Prohibited to Certain Persons.
No license for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be issued to:
(a)

A person who knowingly files false or incomplete information on a retailer’s
liquor license application;

(b)

A person, other than a corporate entity or partnership, who is not a resident of the
County of Cook, Illinois;

(c)

A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community in which
he resides or in the community in which his premises are located;

(d)

A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent unless the
manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the licensee.

(e)

A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state law, if the
Liquor Control Commissioner determines, after investigation, that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust. The burden of
proving that sufficient rehabilitation has taken place shall be on the applicant.

(f)

A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a house of ill
fame;

(g)

A person who has been convicted of pandering or other felony or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality, including but not limited to any form of
pandering, prostitution or solicitation for prostitution;

(h)

A person whose license issued under this Chapter has been revoked for cause;

(i)

A person who at the time of application or renewal of any license issued pursuant
to this Chapter would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;

(j)

Any partnership where any member of the partnership would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the county;

(k)

A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer, manager or
director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more
than 5% of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision.

(l)

A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or organized in
Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited liability company
which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of 1983 (805 ILCS 5/1.01 et
seq.) or the Limited Liability Company Act (805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq) to transact
business in Illinois. The Commission shall permit and accept from an applicant for

Page 42 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

a license under this Act proof prepared from the Illinois Secretary of State's
website that the corporation or limited liability company is in good standing and is
qualified under the Business Corporation Act of 1983 or the Limited Liability
Company Act to transact business in Illinois.
(m)

A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent unless the
manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the licensee.

(n)

A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State law
concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or has forfeited
his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.

(o)

A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to be
issued.

(p)

Neither the County President or County Board member, any county law
enforcement public official, Liquor Control Commissioner nor any staff member
that is employed by Cook County government and assigned to perform their duties
in the office of the Liquor Control Commissioner.

(q)

A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated by the
licensee;

(r)

A person who is ineligible for or fails to receive a license to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail from the State of Illinois;

(s)

A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by any of
subsections (a) (3) through (a) (11) of Section 28-1 of, or as proscribed by Section
28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012 [720
ILCS 5/28-1, 720 ILCS 5/28-1.1 or 720 ILCS 5/28-3], or as proscribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.

(t)

A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a license
under the Raffles Act [230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.] or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar
Games Act [230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.].

(u)

A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption on his or her
licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability insurance coverage for
that premises in the in the aggregate amount of at least one million dollars.

Sec. 6-18. License Issuance Prohibited for Certain Premises.
No license shall be issued for the following premises and any license which has been issued
pursuant to this Article may be revoked if one or more of the following premises occur:

Page 43 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(a) Any premises which are not in substantial compliance with Cook County building and
zoning, and public health and any other applicable ordinances;
(b) Any premises engaged in the business of the sale of gasoline, unless the business
engaged in the sale of gasoline also operates a convenience store on the same premises,
then that business can receive a license to sell alcoholic liquor in the convenience store
area of the business;
(c) Any premises which are ineligible for coverage of a license to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail from the State of Illinois; or,
(d) Any premises where the alcohol is intended to be consumed on the premises and the
carrying of firearms on the property is permitted. The prohibition relating to firearms
shall not apply to premises on which the carrying of firearms is permitted by:
(1) Individuals authorized to carry a firearm under Section 24-2 of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/24-2)
(2) Retired law enforcement officers qualified under federal law to carry a concealed
firearm; or,
(3) The owner, lessee, tenant or operator of the licensed premises or the agents thereof
who have been issued a valid and current FOID card.
Sec. 6-19. License Renewals.
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided the licensee is then
qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal license is sought are
suitable for such purpose; and provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided
for shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the county board
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction. No retailer’s
liquor license issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner shall be renewed unless the
applicant provides documentation that any tax owed to Cook County has been satisfied.
Sec. 6-20. Change of Location.
A retailer’s liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises
described in the application and license. Such location may be changed only upon a written
permission to make such change issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner. Any request
for a change of location must meet all the criteria required for the sale of alcoholic liquor
under the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances of Cook County.
Sec. 6-21. Sanitary Conditions.
All premises used for the sale or storage of alcoholic liquor, shall maintain a safe and
sanitary premises. The licensee must fully comply with the ordinances of the Cook
County building code and public health ordinances.

Page 44 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-22. Prohibited Activities – Alcoholic liquor to persons under the age of 21.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent, manager, or employee of such licensee to:
(a) Sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21 years.
(b) To permit a patron, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor from the
licensee, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor, on the licensed premises, to
another person under 21 years.
Sec. 6-23. Prohibited Activities – Alcoholic Liquor to an Intoxicated Person.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent, manager, or employee of such licensee to give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person which he or she knows or reasonably should know to be intoxicated.
Sec. 6-24. Prohibited Activities – Inducing a patron to purchase beverage for others.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent, manager, or employee of such licensee to:
(a) Solicit, induce or request any patron of the licensed establishment to purchase any
alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage for himself or any other employee of the licensed
establishment;
(b) Knowingly serve to any employee any alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage which was
purchased by any patron;
(c) Permit any employee to remain on the premises of the licensed establishment who
solicits, induces or requests a patron to purchase an alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage
for any employee; or,
(d) Nothing in this subsection prohibits the above activities where the patron and
employee are related by blood or marriage.
Sec. 6-25. Prohibited Activities – Lewd Behavior.
For purposes of this Section any of the items described herein shall be considered exposed
to public view if it is uncovered or is less than completely and opaquely covered.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent, manager, or employee of such licensee to permit any employee, contractor,
vendor, entertainer or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance or
exhibition on the licensed premises which exposes to public view his or her genitals,
pubic hair, buttocks, perineum and anal region or pubic hair region or any portion of
the female breast at or below the areola.

Page 45 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(b) Permit the display of videos, films or pictures depicting acts, a live performance of
which is prohibited by this Section.
Sec. 6-26. Prohibited Activities – Sale of Individual Containers of Beer Malt Liquor or Ale.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of a licensee to divide a manufacturer's package containing more than
one container of beer, malt liquor or ale, if the capacity of an individual container is 16
ounces or less, in order to sell an individual container, except for consumption on the
licensed premises.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of a licensee to sell, give, offer or expose for sale, or deliver an
individual container of beer, malt liquor or ale with a capacity of 16 ounces or less, except
for consumption on the licensed premises.
Sec. 6-27. Prohibited Activities – Presence of Minors under the Age of 16 Years and
Workers under the Age of 21.
(a) Where alcoholic liquor is consumed on the premises, the licensee has an affirmative
obligation to keep the licensed premises, at all times free, from minors under the age of 16
years who are not escorted by their parents, or other proper persons, during the hours in
which the licensee is open for business. No prohibition under this Section shall apply to
any licensed premises where selling, giving, or delivering alcoholic liquor is not the
principal business of the licensee at those premises, such as, without limitation, a
restaurant, convenience store or food shop.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee to engage or employ or permit any person under the age
of 21 years to work or to engage in any activities which involve the handling, selling,
serving, dispensing or delivering of alcoholic liquor. The licensee shall not to engage or
employ or permit any person under 21 years of age to entertain or to act as host or hostess
in or upon the licensed premises while open for the sale of alcoholic liquors. The licensee
shall be responsible for assuring that the person under the age of 21 years engaged,
employed or permitted to work does not consume, obtain or possess alcoholic liquor on the
licensed premises.
Sec. 6-28. Warning sign - Sale of Alcoholic Liquor to Persons under the Age of 21 Prohibited.
In every licensed premise where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a
prominent place a printed card which shall read substantially as follows:
WARNING: All persons under the age of 21 years are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the
Ordinances of the County, if they purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent their age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.

Page 46 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-29. Firearms Prohibited.
No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee
shall permit any person to carry a firearm on the licensed premises. The prohibition against the
carrying of a firearm on the licensed premised shall not apply in the following circumstances:
(a) Where the licensee does not permit the alcoholic liquor sold on the premises to be consumed on
the premises; or,
(b) Premises on which the carrying of firearms is permitted by:
(1) Individuals authorized to carry a firearm under Section 24-2 of the Illinois Criminal
Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/24-2);
(2) Retired law enforcement officers qualified under federal law to carry a firearm; or
(3) The owner, lessee, tenant or operator of the licensed premises or the agents thereof
who have been issued a valid and current FOID card.
Sec. 6-30. Posting Sign that Weapons are Prohibited.
The owner of the premises or place of business operating under a retailer’s liquor license
where liquor is consumed on the premises shall post a sign indicating that firearms are
prohibited on the property. Signs stating that the carrying of firearms is prohibited shall be
in compliance with 430 ILCS 66/65(d).
Sec. 6-31. Change of Ownership or Personnel.
(a) Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding directly or beneficially
more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership interest, or managers of
establishments licensed under this Chapter, shall be reported in writing to the liquor control
pursuant to the procedures set out in this Section. In addition, any changes made to a
licensee’s bylaws, operating agreement, partnership agreement for the licensee, pursuant to
law or court order, by reason of death, or for any other reason, shall be reported if those
changes affect, in any way, the criteria used to issue the liquor license.
(b) All new personnel described in subsection (a) of this Section shall meet all the standards of
this Chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license.
(c) Within 30 days of the effective date of the change described in subparagraph (a) of the this
section, the person replacing a removed or changed officer or manager shall undergo the
requirements for a criminal record background check, as required by Section 6-5 (7), and
the licensee shall submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner:
(1) a change of officer form;

Page 47 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(2) proof that the new officer has submitted fingerprints pursuant to Sec. 6-5(7) of this
Chapter;
(3) the fee for filing the change of officer form in the amount set out in Section 32-1 of the
Cook County Code of Ordinances;
(4) a fee for the fingerprinting in in the amount set out as set Section 32-1; and,
(5) any other supplementary materials requested by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(d) All such changes in personnel shall be subject to review by the Liquor Control
Commissioner. Failure to comply with the requirements of this subsection shall be grounds
for revocation or suspension of any retailer’s liquor license held by such licensee.
(e) When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of ownership occurs resulting
in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible to hold a liquor license, said license shall
terminate.
(f) In the event that a license has been issued to a corporation and a change takes place in
officers, directors, shareholders of more than five (5) percent of the stock, or managers by
someone who is not eligible for a license that event shall be grounds for revocation or
suspension of any retailer’s liquor license.
(g) In the event that a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer eligible for a
license, then that event shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of any retailer’s
liquor license.
(h) In the event that a licensee ceases to operate and closes its business premises, then that
event shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of any retailer’s liquor license.
Sec. 6-32. Illegal Conduct on Licensed Premises - Cooperation with Police.
(a) No licensee shall permit or allow any illegal activity on the licensed premises.
(b) It is the affirmative duty of the licensee to keep the premises free at all times from the
presence of disorderly persons, and to prevent any immoral practices thereon. It is also
the affirmative duty of the licensee to make any and all reasonable attempts to prevent the
violation of any Federal, State or County law or ordinance upon the premises;
(c) It is the affirmative duty of a licensee to report promptly to a local police department all
illegal activity reported to or observed by the licensee on or within sight of the licensed
premises; to answer fully and truthfully all questions of an identified police officer who
inquires or investigates concerning persons or events in or around the licensed business; to
cooperate with the police in any such inquiry or investigation, including the giving of oral
or written statements to the police at reasonable times and locations in the course of
investigations; and to sign a complaint against any person whom the licensee observes in
any illegal conduct or activity on or within sight of the licensed premises.

Page 48 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-33. Illegal Activities outside of the Licensed Premises.
A licensee is responsible to the community surrounding the licensed premises. A retailer’s
liquor license issued or renewed after the effective date of this section shall be subject to a
fine, suspension, or revocation if the licensee's business becomes or creates a nuisance
under this section. A licensee may also be assessed a fine if the licensee's business
becomes or creates a nuisance under this section. A licensed business is or creates a
nuisance under this section, if within any consecutive 12 months, not less than three
separate incidents occur on the licensed premises, on or in the licensed premises' parking
facility or on adjacent property, while the business establishment is open for business or
within one hour of the time the establishment is opened or closed for business, involving
acts that violate any federal or state law defining a felony, or any federal or state law or
local government ordinance regulating narcotics, controlled substances or weapons.
Sec. 6-34. Hours of Business.
(a) Generally. A person licensed by the County as a retailer of alcoholic liquor may not sell,
permit to be sold, or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
7:00 a.m. on weekdays and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Saturdays and
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and noon on Sundays except as provided in subsections (b)
through (e) of this Section.
(b) Beer garden licenses. Unless a special late license or an additional special late license is
issued, no person licensed to operate a beer garden shall sell, serve, or allow the sale or
service of alcoholic liquor for consumption in the privately owned, outdoor portion of the
licensed premises on Saturdays and Sundays between 12:01 a.m. and the legally
established hour of opening, as set forth in Subsection (a) of this section, or on Sundays
through Thursdays between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and the legally established hour of
opening the following day as set forth in this section. No special late hour license or
additional late hour license shall be issued for any outdoor location licensed as a beer
garden where such licensed premises is located within 1,000 feet of property used for
residential purposes.
(c) Golf courses. Unless a special late license or an additional late license is issued, no person
licensed to operate a golf course shall sell, serve, or allow the sale or service of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of a privately or publicly owned golf course
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Saturdays and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on
Sundays.
(d) Special late license. The annual license fee to be paid to the County for the special late
liquor license is hereby established as an additional amount set out in Section 32-1. A
person issued a special late liquor license by Cook County is prohibited from selling,
permitting to be sold, or giving away any liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m. on weekdays and between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Saturdays and
between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.

Page 49 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(e) Additional late liquor license. The annual license fee for the additional special late liquor
license is hereby established in the amount as set out in Section 32-1. A person issued an
additional special late liquor license by the County shall be prohibited from selling,
permitting to be sold or giving away any alcoholic liquor between the hours of 4:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of 4:00 a.m. and 12:00
noon on Sundays.
(f) No additional special late liquor licenses authorizing sales of alcoholic liquor until the hour
of 4:00 a.m. shall be issued. Any license issued prior to January 31, 2005, providing for
hours in excess of 3:00 a.m. shall expire upon the transfer, forfeiture or revocation of the
license whether the transfer is between individuals, partnerships or corporations in whole
or part or whether the transfer is of corporate shares to shareholders not previously owners
of the corporation.
Sec. 6-35. Customers Not Permitted on Premises during Prohibited Hours of Sale.
During the applicable prohibited hours of sale as stated in this Chapter, every location,
place, or premises where alcoholic liquor may be sold at retail shall be kept closed, and no
person other than the licensee or an employee or a member of the immediate family of the
licensee shall be permitted to remain therein.
All doors directly opening into or out of
such location, place or premises for egress thereto or egress therefrom shall be securely
locked during the prohibited hours of sale. The provisions of this section relating to the
closing of the premises and the locking of the doors shall not apply to restaurants, hotels
licensed as food dispensers, clubs, convenience stores, drug stores, grocery stores and
delicatessens, except that no beer garden may remain open after the hours provided in
Section 6-35(b).
Sec. 6-36. Beer Garden Adequate Visual Screening.
Any outdoor location licensed as a beer garden shall have adequate visual screening and
noise barriers from the public rights-of-way and from structures on adjoining parcels. All
screening and barriers must be constructed and maintained in compliance with the
applicable county ordinances.
Sec. 6-37. Denial of Application to Renew License.
Where the Liquor Control Commissioner denies an application to renew a license, the
licensee shall be provided with written notice setting out the reasons for the refusal to
renew, no later than the date on which the license expires, or 10 days after the renewal
application is received whichever event occurs later.
The decision to refuse an
application to renew a license shall be treated as a revocation of the license and the
procedures set out in Section 6-40 relating to license revocation, suspension shall be
applicable.

Page 50 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Sec. 6-38. Complaints Initiated by a Private Party.
Any person shall have the right to file a complaint with the Liquor Control Commissioner
stating that a liquor licensee has been or is violating the provisions of this Chapter or the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) The complaint shall be in writing, in
the form prescribed by the Liquor Control Commissioner, and shall be signed by the person
or persons making the complaint. The complaint shall state the provisions believed to have
been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the Liquor Control
Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
concludes from the facts alleged therein, together with any other information made
available that there is reasonable cause for belief that the allegations are true, he or she shall
set the matter for hearing pursuant to the procedure set out in Section 6-40, and shall serve
notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular charges
in the complaint.
Sec. 6-39. Procedures for Assessment of a Fine, Revocation or Suspension of License.
(a) The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke, suspend or assess a fine ranging from
$1000 to $15,000 against any license issued by him or her if he or she determines the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any applicable rules and
regulations established by the Liquor Control Commissioner or the Illinois Liquor
Control Commission.
(b) The licensee who continues to hold a debt or unpaid tax to the County after being
licensed under this Chapter may have his or her license suspended or revoked.
(c) A retailer’s liquor license shall not be revoked or suspended nor shall a fine be assessed
except after a public hearing. The Liquor Control Commissioner shall send a 14 day
written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend prior to any hearing. All such hearings under this section shall be conducted
pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the Cook County Ordinances or the rules of
procedure as adopted by the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(d) The Liquor Control Commissioner may personally conduct the hearing or refer the
matter to be heard by administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the
Cook County Ordinances. The procedure of the hearing shall be governed by the
rules promulgated by the Liquor Control Commissioner. Within thirty (30) days
after the conclusion of the hearing, if the Liquor Control Commissioner finds by a
preponderance of the evidence that the licensee violated one or more of the charges set
out in the notice, the Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend the license for a set
period of time or revoke the license. In addition, the Liquor Control Commissioner
may impose a fine.
(e) In the event that the matter is heard pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the Cook
County Ordinances then within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
hearing officer shall submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner proposed conclusions
of law, proposed findings of fact, and a recommended decision. The Liquor Control

Page 51 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Commissioner may agree, disagree, or modify the recommended decision and shall
issue a decision as to whether imposition of a fine, suspension of license, or license
revocation is warranted. The Liquor Control Commissioner's decision shall be the final
administrative decision of the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(f) The Liquor Control Commissioner’s decision shall be issued within 30 days of the
conclusion of the hearing.
(g) If prior to rendering a decision, the Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe
that the continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community he or she may upon issuance of a written order stating the
reason for such conclusion without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises
closed for not more than fourteen (14) days. The licensee shall have the opportunity
to be heard during that period. If the licensee is conducting another business or
businesses on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses contingent upon the other business neither serving, making for
sale, or giving away any form of alcoholic beverage.
(h) A licensee or an agent of the licensee may not tamper, deface, or alter such order. A
licensee shall be held strictly liable for any tampering defacement or alteration of such
order.
(i) Any licensee whose license is the subject of such hearings and found by the Liquor
Control Commissioner to be in violation of one or more of the violations set out in the
notice, shall pay to the County, within 30 days after the liquor commissioner adjourns
the last hearing, all fines and costs. Any licensee who fails to pay all fines and costs
required by this section shall be ineligible to have their license renewed at the next
applicable renewal and shall be ineligible for issuance of a new license under this
Chapter. The fact that the licensee may appeal the Liquor Control Commissioner's
suspension or revocation order to the Illinois Liquor Commission shall not affect the
licensee's duty to pay all such fees and costs required by this section. For each day
after the 30th day payment is due a licensee fails or refuses to pay the fees and costs
required by this section, the licensee shall be fined $200 per day, such fines which will
accrue on the balance due, up to a total of $15,000. Where the decision of the Liquor
Control Commissioner is reviewed through an administrative or judicial process and
ultimately that decision is fully reversed, licensee's payment of such fees and costs will
be refunded by the county.
(j) All appeals of any suspension or revocation order of the Liquor Control Commissioner
shall be made to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission.
Sec. 6-40. Protest of the Denial of a License Application.
(a) Where the Liquor Control Commissioner denies a license application, the applicant
shall be provided with notice setting out the reasons for the denial. The applicant may
protest the decision by completing a protest form provided by the liquor commissioner,
and filing the completed form with the liquor commissioner within 14 days after

Page 52 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

receipt of the notice of denial. Where the licensee timely files a protest, the applicant
shall be provided with a hearing pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2, Article
9 of the Cook County Ordinances.. At all times relevant hereto, the applicant shall
carry the burden of proof, as to their eligibility for licensure.
(b) The Liquor Control Commissioner may personally conduct the hearing or refer the
matter to be heard by administrative hearing pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the
Cook County Ordinances. The procedure of the hearing shall be governed by the
rules promulgated by the Liquor Control Commissioner. Within thirty (30) days after
the conclusion of the hearing, if the Liquor Control Commissioner finds by
preponderance that the applicant did meet the licensure requirements, the decision
denying licensure will be reversed; otherwise the decision denying licensure will be
affirmed.
(c) In the event that the matter is heard pursuant to Chapter 2, Article 9 of the Cook
County Ordinances then within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
hearing officer shall submit to the Liquor Control Commissioner proposed conclusions
of law, proposed findings of fact, and a recommended decision. The Liquor Control
Commissioner may agree, disagree, or modify the recommended decision and shall
issue a decision as to whether imposition of a fine, suspension of license, or license
revocation is warranted. The Liquor Control Commissioner's decision shall be the final
administrative decision of the Office of the Liquor Control Commissioner.
(d) The Liquor Control Commissioner’s decision shall be issued within fourteen (14) days
of the conclusion of the hearing.
Sec. 6-41. Responsibility for Violations – Acts of Employees.
Every act or omission on the licensed premises which violates any provision of this
Chapter or the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1938 by any officer, director, manager, or
other agent or employee of the licensee shall be deemed to be the act of the licensee or
employer. For purposes of this section, the licensee or employer shall be strictly liable in
the same manner as if the act or omission has been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
Sec 6-42. Owner and Employee Personal Liability.
(a) Any owner, officer, agent or employee of a licensee shall be personally subject to
the assessment of fine in the amounts described in this section where through an
affirmative act he or she intentionally, assists in the licensee’s violation of one or
more provisions in Sections 6-23 (Alcoholic liquor to persons under the age of 21 ),
6-24 (Alcoholic Liquor to an intoxicated person), 6-25 (Inducing a patron to purchase
beverage for others), and 6-26 (Lewd behavior)
(b) Any owner, officer, agent or employee of a licensee shall be personally subject to the
assessment of fine in the amounts described in this section where: (i) there is a
violation of one or more the provisions set out in subsection (a) of this section (ii) he or

Page 53 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

she knows of the violation[s], (iii) he or she has the authority to prevent or stop the
violation, and (iv) fails to exercise that authority.
(c) The personal liability of any person described in Subsection (a) of this section shall
survive the dissolution of the licensee.
(d) Any violation of a provision in this article shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$1,000 or more than $15,000. A separate and distinct offense shall be held to have
been committed each day any person continues the violation.
(e) A person charged under this Section may raise as an affirmative defense that the act or
omission was based on a reasonable belief that any other course of conduct would have
endangered the person charged or others.
(f) Proceedings for administrative adjudication of alleged violations of this Section shall
be conducted pursuant to the procedures set out in Chapter 2, Article IX, of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances.
Sec. 6-43. Misrepresentation of Age.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to misrepresent such person's
age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any place where
alcoholic liquor is sold in unincorporated Cook County.
Sec. 6-44. Providing Alcoholic Liquor to an Under Age Person.
It shall be unlawful for any person, to provide alcoholic liquor in unincorporated Cook
County. County to a person under the age of 21 years, either by gift, sale or barter, except
where such underage person is:
(a)

A participant in an adult-supervised performance of a religious service or
ceremony; or

(b)

Legally on private property or in a private home, and under the direct supervision
and approval of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of such underage person.

Sec. 6-45. Possession or Consumption by Persons under Age.
(a) No person under the age of 21 years shall possess or consume alcoholic liquor, within
the unincorporated areas of the County. The only exceptions to this article shall be
where such underage person is:
(1) A participant in an adult-supervised performance of a religious service or
ceremony; or

Page 54 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

(2) Legally on private property or in a private home, and under the direct
supervision and approval of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of such underage
person.
(b) Parental responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian knowingly
to suffer or permit a person under 21 years of age of which such person may be the
parent or legal guardian to violate any provisions of this section.
(c) Responsibility of the owner or occupant of premises. It shall be unlawful for any owner
or occupant of any premises located within the unincorporated areas of the County
knowingly to allow any person under the age of 21 years to remain on such premises
while in violation of Subsection (a) of this section.
Sec. 6-46. Carrying a Firearm in a Licensed Facility.
It shall be unlawful for a person to carry a firearm in a licensed establishment where liquor
is consumed on the premises, except in the following circumstances:
(a) Individuals authorized to carry a firearm under Section 24-2 of the Illinois Criminal
Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/24-2)
(b) Retired law enforcement officers qualified under federal law to carry a firearm; or
(c) The owner, lessee, tenant or operator of the licensed premises or the agents thereof
who have been issued a valid and current FOID card
Sec. 6-47. Violation – General Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined and amount not less than
$1000 or more than $15,000, except where otherwise specifically provided. A separate and
distinct offense shall be held to have been committed each day any person continues the violation.
Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than
$15,000 in fines under this Section may be imposed against any licensee during the period of his
license.
Sec. 32-1. Fee Schedule.
CHAPTER 6, ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
6-6

Application fee for license to sell alcoholic liquor

3000.00

6-8

Publication Fee

250.00

6-9

Late fee

300.00

6-11

Application fee for license for a beer garden

750.00

6-12

Live Music Entertainment Fee

750.00

6-13

Special Event Permit

25.00

Page 55 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

6-14

Outside Caterer Fee

50.00

6-31

Change of Officer Fee

250.00

6-31

Criminal Record Background Check Fee

34.25

6-34

Special late liquor license fee, annually

700.00

6-34

Additional special late liquor license fee, annually

1,500.00

6-33(b)

Special late liquor license fee, annually

700.00

6-34(b)

Additional special late liquor license fee, annually

1,500.00

6-63

Application fee for license to sell alcoholic liquor

3,000.00

Application fee for license for a beer garden

750.00

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect upon March 1, 2015.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

15-0588
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Office of Capital Planning & Policy
Vendor: Interior Investments, LLC., Lincolnshire, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Herman Miller Furniture
Contract Value: $1,500,000.00
Contract period: 2/1/2014 - 9/30/2016
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $1,500,000.00
Accounts: 20000 - County Physical Plant
Contract Number(s): 1430-14165
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 56 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Summary: This contract would allow the Office of the Capital Planning and Policy to purchase
furniture for 277 Full Time Employees as part of the Public Defender Office renovation project. This is
a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Procurement Code. Interior
Investments is an authorized dealer of Herman Miller. Herman Miller, and its authorized dealers was
previously awarded a contract through a Request for Proposal (RFP) process through U.S. Communities,
a national government purchasing cooperative sponsored by the National Association of Counties
(NACO) and the National Institute of Government Purchasing (NIGP), and in cooperation with the
County of Fairfax, Virginia. Cook County wishes to leverage this procurement effort.

15-0589
Presented by: PHIL BOOTHBY, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: Faithful + Gould, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Construction Management Services
Original Contract Period: 5/8/2013 - 12/31/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/1/2015 - 7/31/2015
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$963,999.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/8/2013, $963,999.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $385,824.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $ 385,824.00
Accounts: 20000 - County Physical Plant
Contract Number(s): 13-88-066
Concurrences:
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 57 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Summary: The Construction Management Service required in order to complete this project will
necessitate multiple work shifts, as the General Contractor is utilizing their manpower on 3 shifts / day in
order to meet their completion date of 7/6/2015. We are requesting an additional fee to cover the
services to be in alignment with the construction activities.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

15-0585
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management, Sheriff, Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation, Park Ridge, New Jersey
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Heavy Equipment Rental and Associated Services
Original Contract Period: 1/15/2014 - 1/14/2015
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/15/2015 - 1/14/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority:

$150,000.00

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 1/15/2014, $150,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $216,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 200 - $45,833.26; 499 - $37,583.26; 501 - $114,583.26
FY 2016 200 - $4,166.74; 499 - $3,416.74; 501 - $10,416.74
Accounts: 200-638, 499-444, 501- 638
Contract Number(s): 1330-13054
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.

Page 58 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Summary: The extension and increase will enable the Departments of Facilities Management,
Transportation and Highways, and the Cook County Sheriff’s Office to continue operations by providing
on a limited basis rental options to support a shortage of industrial equipment and an aging fleet.

15-0967
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Arlington Glass & Mirror Company, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Furnish and Install Bronze Heat Strengthened Laminated Glass
Contract Value: $669,700.00
Contract period: 2/1/2015 - 1/31/2017, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 $306,945.87; FY2016 - $334,850.05; FY2017 $27,904.08
Accounts: 200-450
Contract Number(s): 1445-14185
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:
Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. On 11/5/2014, bids to supply and install bronze laminated glass for the Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center. Arlington Glass and Mirror Company was the lowest, responsive and
responsible bidder. Replacement of the glass requires swing stage/special equipment and is beyond the
height that in-house staff can service safely.

15-0970
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Valdes Enterprises, Glenview, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute

Page 59 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Good(s) or Service(s): Trash Can Liners
Contract Value: $689,539.00
Contract period: 2/1/2015 - 1/31/2017, with one (1), one (1) year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2015 440 - $20,869.00; 239 - $87,247.50; 200 - $236,643.00;
FY 2016 440 $20,879.00; 239 - $87,247.50; 200 - $236,643.00
Accounts: 440-330, 239-330, 200-330
Contract Number(s): 1445-14012
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Procurement Code.
Valdes Enterprises was the lowest, responsible and responsible bidder. This contract will be used by three
departments: Department of Facilities Management, Cook County Sheriff’s Office and Juvenile
Temporary Detention Center.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE

15-1024
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Second Amendment to Lease
Landlord: J.D.S. Developers, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 3936 West Roosevelt, Suite 100, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 1,700 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $1,505.00 / Annual $18,060.00
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds

Page 60 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Accounts: (082-660 Account)
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with sixty days prior written notice
Utilities Included: No, Utility allowance paid to Landlord / $260.00 monthly (082-429 Account)
Summary:
This Second Amendment to Lease extends the term at 3936 West Roosevelt, Chicago,
Illinois, for the use of Commissioner Robert Steele’s 2nd District field office

15-1026
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a First Amendment to Lease
Landlord: Crown Commercial Real Estate & Development, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 8658 S. Cottage Grove, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 926 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $1,500.00 / Annual $18,000.00
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: 084-660 Account
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with sixty days prior written notice
Utilities Included: No, Separately metered and paid by Tenant (084-429 Account)
Summary: This First Amendment to Lease extends the term at 8658 S. Cottage Grove, Chicago, Illinois,
for the use of Commissioner Stanley Moore’s 4th District field office.

Page 61 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1029
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Fourth Amendment to Lease
Landlord: Chicago Title Land Trust Co. as Successor Trustee, under Trust Agreement #76244, dated
11/9/1971, and Sheldon Simborg as beneficiary
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 2515 Veterans Drive, Posen, Illinois 60469
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 2,800 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $1,293.00 / Annual $15,516.00
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: (085-660 Account)
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with ninety days prior written notice
Utilities Included: No, Utility allowance paid to Landlord / $300.00 monthly (085-429 Account)
Summary: This Fourth Amendment to Lease extends the term at 2515 Veterans Drive, Posen, Illinois,
for the use of Commissioner Deborah Sims’ 5th District field office

15-1033
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Fourth Amendment to Lease
Landlord: Playfield Plaza Development LLC
Tenant: County of Cook

Page 62 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Location: 5405 West 127th Street, Unit “B,” Crestwood, Illinois 60445
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2016
Space Occupied: 1,360 Square feet
Monthly Rent:
12/1/14 - 11/30/15 - $1,000.00 per month / $12,000.00 Annual
12/1/15 - 11/30/16 - $1,100.00 per month / $13,200.00 Annual
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015 and 2016 funds
Accounts: 086-660 Account
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with ninety days prior written notice
Utilities Included: No, Utility allowance paid to Landlord / $360.00 monthly (086-429 Account)
Summary: This Fourth Amendment to Lease extends the term at 5405 West 127th Street, Crestwood,
Illinois 60445 for the use of Commissioner Joan Patricia Murphy’s 6th District field office

15-1034
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Second Amendment to Lease
Landlord: Catfish Point, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 5515 N. East River Road, Chicago, Illinois 60656
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 550 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $850.00 per month / $10,200.00 Annual
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: (089-660 Account)
Option to Renew: N/A

Page 63 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Termination: By Tenant with sixty days prior written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary: This Second Amendment to Lease extends the term at 5515 N. East River Road, Chicago,
Illinois for the use of Commissioner Peter Silvestri’s 9th District field office

15-1036
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Second Amendment to Lease
Landlord: Broadway 55, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 5533 North Broadway, Chicago, Illinois 60640
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 200 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $300.00 per month / $3,600.00 Annual
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: 090-660 Account
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with sixty days prior written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary:
This Second Amendment to Lease extends the term at 5533 North Broadway, Chicago,
Illinois 60640 for the use of Commissioner Bridget Gainer’s 10th District field office

Page 64 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1037
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a Fifth Amendment to Lease
Landlord: 820 Davis Street, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 820 Davis Street, Suite 100, Evanston, Illinois 60201
Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 708 Square feet
Monthly Rent: $1,256.60 per month / $15,079.20 Annual
Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: (093-660 Account)
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with ninety days prior written notice
Utilities Included: No, Utility allowance paid to Landlord / $252.25 monthly (093-429 Account)
Summary: This Fifth Amendment to Lease extends the term at 820 Davis Street, Suite 100, Evanston,
Illinois for the use of Commissioner Larry Suffredin’s 13th District field office

15-1038
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a First Amendment to Lease
Landlord: 521 LaGrange Road, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 521 S. LaGrange Road, LaGrange, Illinois 60525

Page 65 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Term/Extension Period: 12/1/2014 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 685 Square feet
Monthly Rent:
For the Period:
12/1/14 - 11/30/15
12/1/15 - 11/30/16
12/1/16 - 11/30/17
12/1/17 - 11/30/18

$1,305.00 per month / $15,660 Annually
$1,305.00 per month / $15,660 Annually
$1,340.00 per month / $16,080 Annually
$1,375.00 per month / $16,500 Annually

Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: (096-660 Account)
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with sixty days prior written notice
Utilities Included: No, Electricity, separately metered and paid by Tenant (096-429 Account)
Summary:
This First Amendment to Lease extends the term at 521 S. LaGrange Road, LaGrange,
Illinois for the use of Commissioner Jeffrey R. Tobolski’s 16th District field office

15-1107
Presented by: ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Real Estate Management
Request: Approval of a (New) Lease Agreement
Landlord: Damen Blatteis, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook
Location: 4033 N. Lincoln Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60657
Term/Extension Period: 2/1/2015 - 11/30/2018
Space Occupied: 740 Square feet
Monthly Rent:
For the Period:
2/1/15 - 3/31/15
4/1/15 - 1/31/16
2/1/16 - 1/31/17

None, Rent is abated
$1,600.00 per month / $19,200 Annually
$1,750.00 per month / $21,000 Annually

Page 66 of 93

 Board of Commissioners
2/1/17 - 11/30/18

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

$1,900.00 per month / $22,800 Annually

Fiscal Impact: Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 funds
Accounts: (092-660 Account)
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: N/A
Utilities Included: No, Utilities separately metered and paid by Tenant (092-429 Account)
Summary:
This Lease at 4033 N. Lincoln Avenue, Chicago, Illinois is for the use of Commissioner
John A. Fritchey’s 12th District field office
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

15-0991
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ADOPTION OF COOK COUNTY PLANNING FOR PROGRESS STRATEGIC PLAN
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress is a five-year strategic plan for the Cook County Department of
Planning and Development within the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress consists of two Federally-required plans based upon similar
timeframes and content thereby helping the County maintain cohesiveness and be more efficient in
coordinating and targeting a wide spectrum of Federal resources to address local needs; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress includes a new 2015-2019 Consolidated Plan (Con Plan) as required
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the continued receipt of Federal
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG), and HOME
Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) funds to support economic development, affordable housing,
and community development in suburban Cook County with particular emphasis upon benefit to lowand moderate-income households and communities; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress includes a new 2015-2019 Comprehensive Economic Development
Strategy (CEDS) as required by the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) within the U.S.
Department of Commerce for eligible application for Federal funds to support economic development in
the city of Chicago and suburban Cook County; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP) is partnering with Cook County
and providing technical assistance to Planning for Progress through its Local Technical Assistance
(LTA) program valued at approximately $130,000; and

Page 67 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, Planning for Progress was formally launched in October 2013 and is inclusive of extensive
data compilation and analysis as well as critical feedback provided by key stakeholders and the general
public; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress promoted the engagement of and solicited feedback from key
stakeholders including but not limited to Cook County elected officials, management, and staff across
various departments, councils of government (COG), councils of mayors (COM), township leaders,
municipal leaders and staff, public housing authorities, local continuum of care leaders, staff, and
members, fair housing advocates, social service providers, philanthropic funders, educational institutions
and leadership, trade associations, business leaders, workforce development providers, commercial and
residential developers, etc. along with members of the general public utilizing a variety of outreach
methods between October 2013 and December 2014; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress includes an assessment of local assets, resources, needs, market
conditions, and development/service opportunities; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress helps the Department strategically plan for future needs throughout
the County; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress capitalizes on existing local and regional planning efforts,
establishing countywide and sub-regional goals that will provide a higher quality of life for its residents,
workers, and visitors over the next five years; and
WHEREAS, Planning for Progress is consistent with CMAP’s GO TO 2040 comprehensive regional
plan which includes four thematic areas: Livable Communities, Human Capital, Efficient Governance,
and Regional Mobility and specifically emphasizes the value of Planning for Progress’ strategic approach
to pursue coordinated investments; and
WHEREAS, the draft Planning for Progress strategic plan summarizing relevant needs, goals, priorities,
and strategies was released for formal public review and comment for thirty (30) days in late 2014 and
related comments have been addressed as appropriate; and
WHEREAS, the Planning and Development Subcommittee of the Cook County Economic Development
Advisory Committee (EDAC) approved the draft Planning for Progress strategic plan to move forward
for full EDAC review and consideration for approval at their October 2014 meeting; and
WHEREAS, the full EDAC approved the draft Planning for Progress strategic plan to move forward for
Cook County Board review and consideration for approval at their November 2014 meeting; and
WHEREAS, the draft Planning for Progress strategic plan is now being presented to the Cook County
Board of Commissioners for review and consideration for approval for adoption; and
WHEREAS, the adoption by the Cook County Board of Commissioners will enable the Department to
initiate development of the corresponding HUD-required 2015 Annual Action Plan which will outline
specific program and project funding recommendations; and
WHEREAS, the adoption by the Cook County Board of Commissioners will enable the Department to
ultimately submit the final Planning for Progress strategic plan to EDA and HUD in advance of their

Page 68 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

respective February and August 2015 deadlines; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby:
-

Adopt in its entirety the Planning for Progress strategic plan; and

-

Permit the Department to initiate development of the corresponding HUD-required 2015 Annual
Action Plan; and

-

Permit the Department to submit the final Planning for Progress strategic plan to EDA and HUD
in advance of their respective February and August 2015 deadlines; and

-

Allow that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or their designee be authorized to
execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the
initiative approved herein including, but not limited to funding agreements, intergovernmental
agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto.

15-0992
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Housing Opportunity Development Corporation (HODC) or any other legal entity in
formation by HODC for the purposes of this project.
Request: The Department respectfully requests approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of
Economic Development or their designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any
and all documents necessary to further the project approved herein, including, but not limited to funding
agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this
project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary commitments to allow this project to
move forward.
Total Development Cost: $3,845,137.00
Project Loan Amount: $250,000.00
Fiscal Impact: $250,000.00
Account(s): 7721401.580170
Summary: The Cook County Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic
Development respectfully submits the attached HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) project
loan recommendation in the amount of $250,000 to be provided to Housing Opportunity Development
Corporation (HODC) or any other legal entity in formation by HODC for the purposes of this project.

Page 69 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

This project loan will be utilized to support HOME-eligible project costs incurred during the new
construction of thirteen (13) units of permanent supportive housing for individuals and families with
disabilities in Glenview. Two (2) of the thirteen (13) total units will be HOME-assisted. The total
development cost (TDC) is $3,845,137.00. The requested HOME funds account for 6.5 percent of the TDC.
Additional funding sources include IHDA HOME/BIBP and a DCEO Energy Grant. The requested HOME
funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms: A .5%, 30-year
loan, payable at .5% interest only, principal accrual until sale, refinance, or end of the loan term. The loan
will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A twenty (20) year affordability period
will also apply.

15-0996
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER RECOVERY
(CDBG-DR)
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Daveri Development Group, LLC or any other legal entity in formation by Daveri
Development Group, LLC for the purposes of this project.
Request: The Department respectfully requests approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of
Economic Development or their designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any
and all documents necessary to further the project approved herein, including, but not limited to funding
agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this
project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary commitments to allow this project to
move forward.
Total Development Cost: $16,348,695.00
Project Loan Amount: $750,000.00
Fiscal Impact: $750,000.00
Account(s): 9101401.580170
Summary: The Cook County Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic
Development respectfully submits the attached Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery
(CDBG-DR) project loan recommendation in the amount of $750,000.00 to Daveri Development Group,
LLC or any other legal entity in formation by Daveri Development Group, LLC for the purposes of this
project.
This project loan will be utilized to support CDBG-DR-eligible project costs incurred during the new
construction of a fifty (50) unit multi-family rental housing project located in Wheeling, IL. All fifty (50)
units will be CDBG-DR-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is $16,348,695.00. The requested
CDBG-DR funds account for less than five (5) percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources include
Valley Bank as a first mortgage lender, IHDA HOME and/or Low-Income Housing Trust Fund, a DCEO
Energy Grant, and equity generated through the sale of Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC). The

Page 70 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

requested HOME funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following
terms: A 1%, 30-year loan, payable at 1% interest only, principal accrual until sale, refinance, or end of
the loan term. The loan will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A twenty (20)
year affordability period will also apply.

15-0997
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): A Safe Haven and West Suburban Neighborhood Preservation Agency (WSNPA) or
any other legal entity in formation by A Safe Haven and WSNPA for the purposes of this project.
Request: The Department respectfully requests approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of
Economic Development or their designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any
and all documents necessary to further the project approved herein, including, but not limited to funding
agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this
project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary commitments to allow this project to
move forward.
Total Development Cost: $11,902,595.00
Project Loan Amount: $1,750,000.00
Fiscal Impact: $1,750,000.00
Account(s): 7721301.580170
Summary: The Cook County Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic
Development respectfully submits the attached HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME)
project loan recommendation in the amount of $1,750,000.00 to A Safe Haven and West Suburban
Neighborhood Preservation Agency (WSNPA) or any other legal entity in formation by A Safe Haven
and WSNPA for the purposes of this project.
This project loan will be utilized to support HOME-eligible project costs incurred during the new
construction of thirty-five (35) units of permanent supportive housing for veterans and their families.
Eighteen (18) of the 35 units will be HOME-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is
$11,902,595.00. The requested HOME funds account for 14.7 percent of the TDC. Additional funding
sources include, IHDA HOME and/or Low-Income Housing Trust Fund loan, a DCEO Energy Grant,
and equity generated through the sale of Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC).
The requested HOME funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following
terms: A 1%, 30-year loan, payable at 1% interest only, principal accrual until sale, refinance, or end of
the loan term. The loan will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A twenty (20)
year affordability period will also apply.

Page 71 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-0998
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Turnstone Development Corporation (TDC) or any other legal entity in formation by
TDC for the purposes of this project.
Request: The Department respectfully requests approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of
Economic Development or their designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any
and all documents necessary to further the project approved herein, including, but not limited to funding
agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this
project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary commitments to allow this project to
move forward.
Total Development Cost: $19,118,772.00
Project Loan Amount: $2,663,304.00
Fiscal Impact: $2,663,304.00
Account(s): 7721401.580170
Summary: The Cook County Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic
Development respectfully submits the attached HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME)
project loan recommendation in the amount of $2,663,304.00 to Turnstone Development Corporation
(TDC) or any other legal entity in formation by TDC for the purposes of this project.This project loan will
be utilized to support HOME-eligible project costs incurred during the new construction of a seventy-one
(71) unit multi-family rental senior housing project in Northlake, Illinois.
Fifty-six units will be HOME-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is $19,118,772.00. The
requested HOME funds account for fourteen (14) percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources
include IHDA HOME Funds and LIHTC and a DCEO Energy Grant.
The requested HOME funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following
terms: A 1%, 30-year loan, payable at 1% interest only, principal accrual until sale, refinance, or end of
the loan term. The loan will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A twenty (20)
year affordability period will also apply.

Page 72 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-0999
Presented by: MICHAEL JASSO, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER RECOVERY
(CDBG-DR)
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): DRE, Inc. or any other legal entity in formation by DRE, Inc. for the purposes of this
project.
Request: The Department respectfully requests approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of
Economic Development or their designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any
and all documents necessary to further the project approved herein, including, but not limited to funding
agreements, intergovernmental agreements, amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this
project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to issue necessary commitments to allow this project to
move forward.
Total Development Cost: $10,504,453.00
Project Loan Amount: $750,000.00
Fiscal Impact: $750,000.00
Account(s): 9101401.580170
Summary: The Cook County Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic
Development respectfully submits the attached Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery
(CDBG-DR) project loan recommendation in the amount of $750,000.00 to DRE, Inc. or any other legal
entity in formation by DRE, Inc. for the purposes of this project.
This project loan will be utilized to support CDBG-DR-eligible project costs incurred during the
rehabilitation of a ninety-six (96) unit multi-family rental housing project in Blue Island, IL. Forty-eight
units will be CDBG-DR-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is $10,504,453.00. The requested
CDBG-DR funds account for seven (7) percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources include IHDA
Housing Trust Fund, tax exempt bonds, and DCEO Energy Grant.
The requested CDBG-DR funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the
following terms: A 1%, 30-year loan, payable at 1% interest only, principal accrual until sale, refinance,
or end of the loan term. The loan will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A
fifteen (15) year affordability period will also apply.

Page 73 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1022
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, County

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
KOCSIS BROTHERS MACHINE COMPANY 6B SER
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) application containing the
following information:
Applicant: Kocsis Brothers Machine Company
Address: 11755 South Austin Avenue
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Alsip
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: 24-20-402-028-0000; 24-20-402-032-0000; 24-20-402-033-0000;
24-20-402-034-0000; 24-20-402-045-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 2014-7-R-2
Number of years property occupied by same industrial user: 20
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Evidence of economic hardship: Deterioration, Overcrowding of Structures, Obsolescence
Estimated # of jobs created by this project: N/A
Estimated # of jobs retained at this location: 105 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated # of employees in Cook County: 105 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated # of construction jobs: N/A
Proposed use of property: Industrial - Manufacturing
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program that provides an applicant a reduction in
the assessment level for a qualified industrial facility; and

Page 74 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
circumstances justify finding that the property is deemed qualified for purpose of Class 6b under the SER
Program; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b SER requires the validation by the County Board of the finding that the propertyis
deemed qualified for purposes of Class 6b SER; and
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has been at the same location for a
minimum of ten years prior to the date of application for the SER Program;
WHEREAS, the industrial enterprise that occupies the premises has submitted evidence of hardship
supporting a determination that participation in the SER Program is necessary for the industrial
enterprise to continue operations at its current location and maintain its staff, and that without such
designation the industrial enterprise would not be economically viable causing the property to be in
imminent risk of becoming vacant and unused; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is not receiving another Cook County property tax incentive for the same
property; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b SER is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the
definition of the Class 6b SER; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b SER can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment
from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned
property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b SER will be assessed
at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b SER; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 75 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1042
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
MANOR TOOL & MANUFACTURING COMPANY CLASS 6B SER
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) application containing the
following information:
Applicant: Manor Tool & Manufacturing Company
Address: 9200 S. Ivanhoe Street
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Schiller Park
Cook County District: 9
Permanent Index Number: 12-22-100-130-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 16-14
Number of years property occupied by same industrial user: 30
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Evidence of economic hardship: Dilapidation, Deterioration, Deleterious land use and layout
Estimated # of jobs created by this project: N/A
Estimated # of jobs retained at this location: 39 full-time, 2 part-time
Estimated # of employees in Cook County: Same as above
Estimated # of construction jobs: N/A
Proposed use of property: Industrial - Manufacturing
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b Sustainable Emergency Relief (SER) Program that provides an applicant a reduction in
the assessment level for a qualified industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;

Page 76 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

and
WHEREAS, in the instance where real estate does not meet the definition of abandoned property as
defined herein, the municipality or the County Board, as the case may be, may still determine that special
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby do what you are suggesting or endorsing with this resolution.

15-1047
Sponsored by:
Commissioner

TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER, County

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SSK HOLDINGS OR ITS ASSIGNEE 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: SSK Holdings or Its Assignee
Address: 1717 Gifford Road
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Elgin
Cook County District: 15
Permanent Index Number: 06-31-202-001-0000; 06-31-202-003-0000; 06-31-202-007-0000;
06-31-202-008-0000; Class 5-80; 06-31-202-009-0000; 06-31-202-014-0000; 06-31-202-015-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 14-155
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 10
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 10-20 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 75 full-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: N/A
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 50 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Manufacturing
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes

Page 77 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous months,
have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

15-1048
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and GREGG GOSLIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
PRECISION ZONE SERVICE COMPANY6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: Precision Zone Service Company

Page 78 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Address: 311 Elgidi Drive
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Wheeling
Cook County District: 14
Permanent Index Number: 03-02-316-040-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 14-167
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 13
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
TEERM (TEMPORARY EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION (Vacant
for more than 12 months but less than 24 months - No Purchase for Value) Justification: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 20 full-time
Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location:

four (4) full-time

Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: N/A
Estimated Number of construction jobs: five (5) - 10 construction jobs
Proposed use of property: Manufacturing
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial/commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for more than 24 continuous
months, there has been no purchased for value by a purchaser and the property is in need of substantial
rehabilitation; and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property as abandoned for purpose of the Class 6b TEERM (TEMPORARY
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY MODIFICATION; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment according to the TEERM definition, abandonment is defined as
a facility being vacant over 12 months but less than 24 months with no purchase for value by a
disinterested buyer, in such instances, the County may determine that special circumstances exist under
TEERM; thus qualifying the property as abandoned; and

Page 79 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

WHEREAS, Class 6b TEERM requires a resolution by the County Board validating the property as
abandoned for the purpose of the Class 6b TEERM; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b TEERM is necessary for development to occur on this
specific real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the
definition of abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS; commercial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying
commercial real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of
assessment from the date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of
abandoned property from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be
assessed at 10% of the market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b TEERM; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

15-1052
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, and DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
SBS BUILDING LLC 6B PROPERTY TAX INCENTIVE REQUEST
WHEREAS, the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development received and reviewed a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b application containing the following information:
Applicant: SBS BUILDING LLC
Address: 13800 South California Avenue
Municipality or Unincorporated Township: Blue Island
Cook County District: 6
Permanent Index Number: 28-01-111-071-0000
Municipal Resolution Number: 2014-050
Number of month property vacant/abandoned: 5
Special circumstances justification requested: Yes
Estimated Number of jobs created by this project: 2 full-time, 0 part-time

Page 80 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Estimated Number of jobs retained at this location: 5 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of employees in Cook County: 5 full-time, 0 part-time
Estimated Number of construction jobs: 5 full-time, 0 part-time
Proposed use of property: Industrial- Distribution
Living Wage Ordinance Compliance Affidavit Provided: Yes
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property Assessment
Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment level for an abandoned
industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Classification System for Assessment defines abandoned property as
buildings and other structures that, after having been vacant and unused for at least 24 continuous
months, have been purchased for value by a purchaser in whom the seller has no direct financial interest;
and
WHEREAS, in the instance where the property does not meet the definition of abandoned property, the
municipality or the Board of Commissioners, may determine that special circumstances may exist that
justify finding that the property is abandoned for purpose of Class 6b; and
WHEREAS, in the case of abandonment of less than 24 months and purchase for value, by a purchaser
in whom the seller has no direct financial interest, the County may determine that special circumstances
justify finding the property is deemed abandoned; and
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period of qualifying
abandonment in cases where the facility has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon
purchase for value; and
WHEREAS, the municipality states the Class 6b is necessary for development to occur on this specific
real estate. The municipal resolution cites the qualifications of this property to meet the definition of
abandoned with special circumstances; and
WHEREAS, industrial real estate is normally assessed at 25% of its market value, qualifying industrial
real estate eligible for the Class 6b can receive a significant reduction in the level of assessment from the
date that new construction or rehabilitation has been completed, or in the case of abandoned property
from the date of substantial re-occupancy. Properties receiving Class 6b will be assessed at 10% of the
market value for 10 years, 15% for the 11th year and 20% in the 12th year; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of Commissioners of the
County of Cook, that the President and Board of Commissioners validate the above-captioned property is
deemed abandoned with special circumstances under the Class 6b; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.

Page 81 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

15-1025
Presented by: TRACEY LADNER, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources; LAWRENCE WILSON,
County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Human Resources
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Human Resources Biweekly Activity Reports for 2014 Pay Period 26, 2015 Pay Period 1
and the report of the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget Changes.
Report Period: Pay Period 26: 11/30/2014 - 12/13/2014, Pay Period 1: 12/14/2014 - 12/27/2014 and the
report of the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget Changes.
Summary: Submitting the Human Resources Activity Reports covering the pay periods listed above and
the report of the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget Changes.
BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

15-0321
Presented by: SIMONA ROLLINSON, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Cook County Bureau of Technology
Request: Refer to the Committee on Technology
Report Title: Quarterly Progress Report on the Creation of the Automated Criminal Justice System
Report Period: 9/1/2014 - 11/30/2014
Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 13-2002, the CIO shall update the Board of Commissioners via the
Technology Committee on progress being made towards achieving the goal of an integrated, automated
Cook County Criminal Justice System on a quarterly basis beginning with the first quarter of the
FY2014. This is the fourth quarterly report of FY2014.

Page 82 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

VARIOUS COUNTY AGENCIES

15-1196
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): CCHHS; State’s Attorney
Vendor: Nationwide Credit & Collections, Inc, Oakbrook Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Debt Collection Services
Contract Value: Revenue Generating Contract
Contract period: 2/1/2015-1/30/2020 with one (1) one-year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Revenue Generating Contract
Accounts: Various
Contract Number(s): 1490-13840C
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This contract is for Countywide Debt Collection Services. The vendor will provide
comprehensive debt collection services on behalf of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office on
outstanding accounts classified as uncollectible by the Cook County Health and Hospital System
(CCHHS). Request for Proposal (RFP) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Nationwide Credit & Collections, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation
criteria. The contract includes a contingency fee on collections as follows: (CCHHS) Primary Accounts
(14.5%) Litigation/Lien (18%).

15-1199
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Revenue; Clerk of the Circuit Court; State’s Attorney
Vendor: AllianceOne Receivables Management, Inc., Gig Harbor, Washington
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Debt Collection Services
Contract Value: Revenue Generating Contract

Page 83 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Contract period: 2/1/2015-1/30/2020
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Revenue Generating Contract
Accounts: Various
Contract Number(s): RFP NO. 1490-13840
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This contract is for Countywide Debt Collection Services. The vendor will provide
comprehensive debt collection services on behalf of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office on
outstanding accounts classified as uncollectible by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and the Cook County
Department of Revenue. A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued for these services and the committee
recommends AllianceOne Receivables Management, Inc., after conducting a comprehensive and objective
evaluation of all proposals submitted on the conditions listed in the RFP, overall presentation, responses to
clarification and pricing. The contract includes a contingency fee as follows. Contingency Fee:
Revenue): Primary Accounts (16%), Litigation (26%); Contingency Fee: (Clerk): Primary (15.49%,)
Litigation (15.49%)

15-1205
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Revenue; Clerk of the Circuit Court; CCHHS; State’s Attorney
Vendor: Penn Credit Corporation, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Debt Collection Services
Contract Value: Revenue Generating Contract
Contract period: 2/1/1015-1/30/2020 with one (1) one-year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Revenue Generating Contract
Accounts: Various
Contract Number(s): 1490-13840D
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Chief Procurement Officer concurs

Page 84 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

Summary: This contract is for Countywide Debt Collection Services. The vendor will provide
comprehensive debt collection services on behalf of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office on
outstanding accounts classified as uncollectible by the Clerk of the Circuit Court, Cook County
Department of Revenue and Cook County Health and Hospital System. Request for Proposal (RFP)
procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code. Penn Credit
Corporation was selected based on established evaluation criteria. The contract contains a contingency
fee on collections as follows: (Revenue, Clerk, and CCHHS) Primary Accounts (17%) Litigation (25%).

15-1211
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Revenue; State’s Attorney
Vendor: Gila LLC d/b/a MSB (Municipal Services Bureau) Austin, Texas
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Debt Collection Services
Contract Value: Revenue Generating Contract
Contract period: 2/1/1015-1/30/2020 with one (1) one-year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: Revenue Generating Contract
Accounts: Various
Contract Number(s): 1490-13840B
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This contract is for Countywide Debt Collection Services. The vendor will provide
comprehensive debt collection services on behalf of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office on
outstanding accounts classified as uncollectible by the Cook County Department of Revenue. Request
for Proposal (RFP) procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
Gila LLC d/b/a MSB (Municipal Services Bureau) was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
The contract includes a contingency fee on collections as follows: (Revenue) Primary Accounts (17%)
Litigation (20.48%).

Page 85 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK

15-1060
Presented by: DAVID ORR, County Clerk
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Clerk
Vendor: Lake County Press, Inc., Waukegan, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Optical Scan Ballot Printing Services
Original Contract Period: 1/18/2012 - 1/17/2014
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 1/18/2015 - 1/17/2016
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,983,291.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 11/1/2011, $1,123,291.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 12/4/2013, $860,000.00, 1/18/2014 - 1/17/2015
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $224,459.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2015 $224,459.00
Accounts: 524-240
Contract Number(s): 11-83-001
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Ordinance.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This renewal and increase will allow Lake County Press, Inc. to continue to print optical
scan ballots used for absentee voting and in-person voting at precincts on Election Day. Lake County
Press, Inc. will provide ballots for the 2/24/2015 Consolidated Primary and the 4/17/2015 Consolidated
Election. This is the second of two (2), one (1) year renewal options.

Page 86 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

15-0788
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County; ALEXIS HERRERA, Chief Financial
Officer, Sheriff's Office
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REGARDING COOK COUNTY SHERIFF’S POLICE CHANGE IN SIGNATORIES ON BANK
ACCOUNTS
WHEREAS, The Cook County Board of Commissioners has the legal authority to authorize its
departments and offices to open and maintain checking and savings accounts at various banks; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary to update those persons who are authorized to be signatories on these
checking and savings accounts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the checking account and/or savings accounts at
Seaway Bank and Trust Company for the following purposes, be updated for the Sheriff’s Police
Department, 1505 Holding Trust Fund, 1505 Operations, Federal Justice Account, Federal Treasury
Account, Money Laundering Account, ERPS Holding Account, 810 Contingency Fund, Special
Operations Investigations, DUI-Enforcement, Administrative Tow Revenue and Women’s Justice
Services Funds; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the following are the names of those persons who are authorized to
sign checks on these checking and/or savings accounts and that the signatories of at least two (2) of these
shall be required on each check:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Brian White
Patrick Dwyer
Patricia Echols
Marlon Parks
Scott Cassidy

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons heretofore designated to be signatory shall
be deleted:
1. Thomas Fleming
2. Kevin Ruel
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any funds drawn on said account for deposit with the Cook County
Treasurer/Comptroller be transmitted to the Cook County Comptroller with an itemization of collections
and designation of account in the Office of the Comptroller.

Page 87 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY

15-0883
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; GARVIN G. AMBROSE, Chief of
Staff, State’s Attorney’s Office
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantor: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: This grant will provide continued funding for the Sexual Assault/Domestic Violence
Prosecution Coordination Program, which enables the State’s Attorney’s Office to better utilize staff and
resources to effectively address the combined issues of sexual assault and domestic violence.
Grant Amount: $665,879.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2015
Fiscal Impact: $359,532.00 (Required Match; $221,960.00; Over-Match: $137,572.00)
Accounts: 250-818
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 4/9/2014
Most Recent Grant Amount: $665,879.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: This grant will provide continued funding for the Sexual Assault/Domestic Violence
Prosecution Coordination Program, which enables the State’s Attorney’s Office to better utilize staff and
resources to effectively address the combined issues of sexual assault and domestic violence. This
program provides funding to allow the State’s Attorney’s Office to dedicate four (4) assistant state’s
attorneys, two (2) investigators, two (2) victim specialists, one (1) Domestic Violence Resource Center
Coordinator and one (1) administrative assistant. This grant requires that our office match one dollar for
each three dollars of federal funding. The match commitment for this program is a cash match that
supports the full salary and fringe benefits of one (1) assistant state’s attorney, a portion of the salary of
one (1) assistant state’s attorney, as well as a portion of the fringe benefits for the remaining personnel.

Page 88 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-0887
Presented by: ANITA ALVAREZ, Cook County State’s Attorney; GARVIN G. AMBROSE, Chief of
Staff, State’s Attorney’s Office;
PROPOSED GRANT AWARD RENEWAL
Department: Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Grantee: Cook County State’s Attorney
Grantor: Illinois Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Council
Request: Authorization to renew grant
Purpose: The personnel funded by this grant work to increase the prosecution of offenders

involved in motor vehicle theft and other motor vehicle related crimes.
Grant Amount: $823,644.00
Grant Period: 1/1/2015 - 12/31/2015
Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: None
Most Recent Date of Board Authorization for Grant: 2/19/2014
Most Recent Grant Amount: $823,644.00
Concurrences:
The Budget Department has received all requisite documents and determined the fiscal impact on Cook
County, if any.
Summary: This grant renewal provides one year of continued funding for the Motor Vehicle

Theft Prosecutions Unit. This grant funds the salaries and benefits for five (5) assistant state’s
attorneys, one (1) state’s attorney investigator, and one (1) administrative assistant located at
2650 South California Ave. The personnel funded by this grant work to increase the prosecution
of offenders involved in motor vehicle theft and other motor vehicle related crimes.

Page 89 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

OFFICE OF THE STATE'S ATTORNEY CIVIL ACTIONS BUREAU
15-0916
Presented by: DANIEL F. GALLAGHER, Deputy State’s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau
PROPOSED PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ITEM AMENDMENT
Department: State’s Attorney’s Office, Civil Actions Bureau
Request: Requesting authorization from the Cook County Board of Commissioners to approve as
amended
Item Number: 14-6356
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Account(s): N/A
Original Text of Item:
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
Case: Collins v. Dart, et al.
Case No: 13 C 3924
Settlement Amount: $8,000.00
Fixed Charges Department: 499 (Public Safety)
Payable to: Sandra Hayes “Roszell Collins and the Trust Fund of Sandman Levy and Petrich” on
behalf of Mr. Collins.”
Litigation Subcommittee Approval: N/A
Subject matter: Allegations of civil rights violations

Page 90 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE MEETING OF
DECEMBER 17, 2014 (RECESSED AND RECONVENED MEETING AT 1pm)
14-6582 - PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Gregory Zyvert, Cook County Employee Appeals Board
____________________
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS COMMITTEE MEETING OF
JANUARY 20, 2015
15-0603 - PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Patrick M. Brady, Cook County Sheriff’s Merit Board
15-0675 - PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Ordinance Governing Presidential Appointments to
Cook County Departments or Agencies
15-0706 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION Requesting a hearing of the Legislation and Intergovernmental
Relations Committee to discuss pending legislation before the Illinois General Assembly and the United
States Congress
____________________

BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE MEETING OF JANUARY 20,
2015
15-0484 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION Remington Northwest LLC 6B Property Tax Incentive Request
15-0486 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION Bloomingdale Enterprises 6B Property Tax Incentive Request
15-0521 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION Yaser Mohammed Class 8 Property Tax Incentive Request
15-0522 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION Cabot Acquisitions, LLC Class 6B SER
15-0583 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION The Bazaar, Inc. Or Its Assignee 6B Property Tax Incentive
Request
15-0592 - PROPOSED RESOLUTION Realty Associates Fund VIII, L.P. 6B Property Tax Incentive
Request
____________________
RULES COMMITTEE MEETING OF JANUARY 21, 2015
15-1112 - JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the special meeting held on 12/1/2014
15-1113 - JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the special meeting held on 12/10/2014

Page 91 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-1115 - JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular meeting held on 12/17/2014
____________________
FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF JANUARY 21, 2015
COURT ORDERS
SUBROGATION RECOVERIES
SELF-INSURANCE CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
PATIENT/ARRESTEE CLAIMS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
15-0935 - REVENUE REPORT Period Ending 11/30/2014
15-0668 - REPORT Cook County Health and Hospitals System Monthly Report, January 2015
15-0022 - PROPOSED ORDINANCE Theft of Services
____________________

ZONING AND BUILDING COMMITTEE MEETING OF JANUARY 21, 2015
MAP AMENDMENT/SPECIAL USE/VARIATION
14-2566 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Map Amendment
MA-14-0002, Special Use for Planned Unit Development SU-14-0003 and Variance VA-14-0008
SPECIAL USE
15-0823 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Special Use
SU 13-05
SPECIAL USE and VARIATIONS
15-0862 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Special Use
SU 14-04 and Variation V 14-37
15-0863 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Special Use
SU 14-05 and Variation V 14-38

Page 92 of 93

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

January 21, 2015

15-0817 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Variation V 14-60
15-0818 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Variation V 14-61
15-0819 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Variation V 14-63
15-0821 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Variation V 14-64
15-0822 - RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Request: Variation V 14-66
15-0600 - PROPOSED ORDINANCE Cook County Zoning Use Certificate Adopting Ordinance
____________________

ROADS AND BRIDGES COMMITTEE MEETING OF JANUARY 21, 2015
15-0015 - PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION
AND HIGHWAYS)
15-0329 - PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION
AND HIGHWAYS)
15-0676 - PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT An Ordinance Governing the Disposition of
Surplus Cook County Transportation and Highway Department Property

Page 93 of 93

 