Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee
Wednesday, July 29, 2015

12:00 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA - REVISED
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-4636
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/30/2015

15-3813
Sponsored by: JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDING THE COOK COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCE RELATING TO THE OFFICIAL
SEAL OF COOK COUNTY TO PROHIBIT FRAUDULENT AND DECEPTIVE USE BY
PRIVATE PERSONS AND ENTITIES
Page 1 of 4

 WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a Home Rule Unit of Government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6; and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule power, the County of Cook may exercise any power and perform any
function relating to its government and affairs, including the power to regulate for the protection of the
public
health, safety, morals and welfare; and,
WHEREAS, the official seal of Cook County (“County Seal”) is an important symbol of the government of
Cook County which is used by Cook County government officials, departments and agencies to convey, and does
convey, the official imprimatur of the Cook County government; and
WHEREAS, when members of the public see the County Seal on any communication or object, they are likely
to believe, and do reasonably believe, that the person or entity displaying the County Seal is a Cook
County
government official, department or agency, and that the communication or object has been approved by a Cook
County government official, department or agency; and thus the display of the County Seal communicates official
approval by Cook County government and an association with official Cook County government business; and
WHEREAS, from time to time, private persons or entities have displayed the County Seal on various
communications and objects with the intent and/or the effect of misleading and confusing members of the public
into believing that the private person or entity is acting as a representative of the Cook County government and/or
acting on official Cook County business; and
WHEREAS, examples of potential fraudulent misuse of the County Seal include, but are not limited to, the use
of the County Seal on letters from non-government entities offering property tax appeal assistance under the ruse
of gathering sensitive personal financial information and the use of the County Seal by private persons to gain
entry to the residences and workplaces of people living and doing business in Cook County under the false
pretense of being Cook County government officials or employees; and
WHEREAS, such fraudulent use of the County Seal puts the most vulnerable members of the public at financial
and physical risk and creates a public safety danger;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Part I General
Ordinances, Chapter 2 - Administration, Article I - In General, Section 2-1 of the Cook County Code is hereby
amended as follows:
Sec. 2 1.

Official Seal.

(a) Establishment and use. The seal hereinafter described, and used with or without colors, shall be and is hereby
established, created and declared to be the official seal of the County. For general use, the plain impression on white
containing the figures and symbols hereinafter described shall be sufficient.
(b) Description. The seal shall be circular having within its center an outline of the map of the County across which
is a scroll bearing the legend “January, 1831” marking the time the County was created by the State legislature; in
the lower left portion of the design there appears an illustration of a ship sailing on Lake Michigan, symbolic of the
County’s geographical location, shipping port and, in a broad sense, all forms of transportation; in the upper right
portion there appears a group of diversified buildings, symbolical of government, schools, churches, fine arts,
dwellings, business and industry; with the entire design being encircled by a border upon which appears the printed
words “Seal of Cook County, Illinois.”
(c) Coloration. The colors of the official seal shall be as follows:
(1) The outline map of the County, occupying the central portion of the design, shall be in gold, with
its border a thin black line;
(2) The scroll across the face of the map shall be white, bordered by a thin black line, the date within
Page 2 of 4

 the scroll - “January, 1831” - shall be lettered in maroon;
(3) The sky shall be a light blue, the lake a turquoise green;
(4) The ship shall be in maroon, except for the superstructure, which is white;
(5) The group of diversified buildings shall be maroon;
(6) The broad circular border, encompassing the group of symbols shall be in cobalt (blue), edged on
both the inner and outer sides with a fine line of gold;
(7) The lettering - “Seal of Cook County, Illinois” - which appears on the cobalt border, shall be in
gold.
(d) No person, as defined by §1-3 of this Chapter of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, shall use or display any
image or likeness of the seal described in this section for the purpose of conveying, or in a manner that is reasonably
likely to convey, the false impression of endorsement, sponsorship or approval by the government of Cook County
or by any official, department, agency or instrumentality thereof. Any person violating this provision shall be
ordered to cease and desist in such use and shall be subject to a fine as set forth by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners in Chapter 32, section 32-1 of this Code. The determination as to the imposition of penalties under
this Section shall be determined in the Cook County Department of Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 2,
Article IX, of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. Nothing herein prohibits a duly authorized Cook County
official, or a person acting under his or her direction, from using or displaying any image or likeness of the seal
described in this section.
(d)(e) Custody. The official seal shall be kept in the custody of the County Clerk to be used by the County Clerk
when required.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners,
that Part I General Ordinances, Chapter 32 - Fees, Sec. 32-1-Fee Schedule, Chapter 2-Administration,
2.1, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
If any person violates this provision, in addition to such other equitable remedies, the penalties shall be:
1. For a first violation, such person shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$250;
2. For any subsequent violation, such person shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250 or nor
more than $500.00.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 6/10/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee
Legislative History: 6/30/15 Criminal Justice Committee recommended for deferral
Legislative History: 7/1/15 Board of Commissioners deferred

15-4167
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
Chapter 54, Article III, Division 4, Section 54-214(a)
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 54, “LICENSES,
Page 3 of 4

 PERMITS AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS, ARTICLE III, “DEADLY WEAPONS
DEALERS,” DIVISION 4, BLAIR HOLT ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN, SECTION 54-214(a) of the Cook
County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 54-214. - Violation. Penalty.
(a) Any person found in violation of this division shall be fined not less than $1,000.00 $5,000.00 and not more
than $5,000.00 $10,000.00 and may be sentenced for a term not to exceed more than six months one (1) year’s
imprisonment. Any subsequent violation of this division shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $5,000.00
$10,000.00 and not more than $10,000.00 $15,000.00 and may be sentenced for a term not to exceed more than
six months one (1) year’s imprisonment.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 7/1/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee

______________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Moore
Committee of the Whole

Page 4 of 4

 