Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
Report of the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
Monday, September 8, 2014

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

SECTION 1
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Absent:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code Section 1-4-30 Public Testimony.

1. Lenore Beyer-Clow, Policy Director Openlands
14-0375
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances for the purpose of
establishing a Conservation and Policy Council for the purpose of providing additional leadership and expertise in
the conservation area and other related areas.
WHEREAS, One hundred years ago, civic leaders in Chicago had the wisdom and foresight to leave us an
extraordinary gift: the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “District”), and;
WHEREAS, in recognition of the need for a renewed vision for the District and as an acknowledgment of this
body’s commitment to a program of renewal, restoration and engagement, on February 18, 2014, the District Board
of Commissioners adopted the Next Century Conservation Plan (the “Plan”), and;
WHEREAS, the Plan, which was developed by a team of civic leaders, organizations and District staff to map the
District’s strategic conservation vision for the next 100 years, calls for transforming the forest preserves to places
that foster diversity of plants, animals and habitats and welcome diverse people, and;
WHEREAS, the Plan also calls for the creation of a Conservation and Policy Council to provide continuous
conservation leadership and expertise to the President and Board of Commissioners of the District.

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the District Board of Commissioners that Title I Forest Preserve
Lands and Property, Chapter 18 Conservation and Policy Council of the Code of the District hereby is enacted as
follows:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1 - OFFICIAL FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT CODE
CHAPTER 2 - SAVING CLAUSE
CHAPTER 3 - DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 4 - GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 5 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 6 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 7 - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 8 – DISTRICT FINANCES
CHAPTER 9 - LAND ACQUISITIONS AND DEDICATIONS
CHAPTER 10 - POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 11 - DRUG-FREE POLICY FOR DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 12 - BOTTLED WATER BAN
CHAPTER 13 - CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 14 - DISTRICT VEHICLE POLICY
CHAPTER 15 - REDUCTION OF WASTE
CHAPTER 16 - GREEN BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 17 - OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
CHAPTER 18 - CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
****
CHAPTER 18 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
1-18-1
1-18-2
1-18-3
1-18-4
1-18-5

GENERAL PROVISIONS
MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL

1-18-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Short Title. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance.
B. Purpose. The purpose of the Conservation and Policy Council is to safeguard, expand and bring additional
resources to the District by providing public recommendations regarding conservation, based on the Council’s
knowledge, skill, leadership and expertise in the field of conservation and other related areas, to the General
Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners of the District.
C. Declaration. The District Board hereby establishes the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Conservation
and Policy Council ("Conservation Council"). The District Board hereby finds and declares that the Conservation
Council shall do, but not be limited to, the following:
1. Develop and annually update a five-year strategic and financial plan to operationalize the Next
Century Conservation Plan and annually recommend adoption of the updated strategic and
financial plan to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners;
Page 2 of 20

 2. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about the annual budget and its alignment with the strategic and financial plan;
3. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about conservation policies and practices;
4. Review and make recommendations to the General Superintendent, President and Board of
Commissioners about opportunities to maximize public and private financial resources to
accomplish conservation goals and initiatives; and
5. Provide public recommendations, as needed, to improve the District’s operations and conservation
leadership.
D. Definitions. For purposes of this article, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or construction
ascribed to them in this Section:
1. Conservation Council means the eleven (11) Member board charged with providing public
recommendations to the General Superintendent, President, and Board of Commissioners on all
matters relating to the policies of the District and the Next Century Conservation Plan.
2. Chairperson means the chairperson of the Conservation and Policy Council.
3. District Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois.
4. Member means a Member of the Conservation and Policy Council.
5. Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance, as amended.
6. President means the President of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County, Illinois.
1-18-2

MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL

A. General. The appointed Members shall receive no compensation for their service, but may be reimbursed for
actual and necessary expenses while serving on the Conservation Council.
B. Number of Members. There shall be eleven (11) Members of the Conservation Council.
1. One Chairperson (1)
2. One Ex Officio (1)
3. Nine Members (9)
C. Appointment of Members. One of the eleven (11) Members shall be Chairperson, appointed by the President and
one of the eleven (11) shall be an Ex-Officio Member. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a District Board
Commissioner, appointed by the President. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a voting Member of the
Conservation Council. The Ex-Officio Member shall serve as a liaison between the District Board and the
Conservation Council. The ten (10) remaining Members, including the Chairperson, shall be appointed in the
following manner:
Page 3 of 20

 1. Initial Appointments. The President shall appoint all Initial Members of the Conservation Council
based on the criteria established in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances.
2. Subsequent Appointments. After the first term of each of the Initial Member appointments
expires or are otherwise terminated, Members of the Conservation Council will be selected as
follows:
3. The President, in consultation with the Council, will appoint a Nominating Committee, comprised
of at least 5 individuals, to recommend replacement or renewal of Members as terms expire.
a.

A majority of the Nominating Committee members will be representatives of
not-for-profit organizations that have as their primary focus conservation of nature, land
and/or water.
One member of the Nominating Committee will be a representative of a not-for-profit
organization that has as its primary focus government finance and public policy.
The Nominating Committee may include up to two Conservation Council members.

b.
c.

4. The Nominating Committee will review the qualifications of individuals on the criteria established
in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances, and will present at least one nomination for
each vacant position to the President before the end of the term
5. The President will select from the Nominating Committee’s list and present one name for each
vacancy to the Board of Commissioners for concurrence.
6. If the Board does not approve appointment of the recommended candidate(s), the President may go
back to the original recommendations of the Nominating Committee, or request additional names
from the Nominating Committee.
7. Prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate for appointment by the President or Board of
Commissioners shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations Committee, that:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Is signed by the candidate;
Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;
Is notarized;
Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute,
ordinance, law or regulation that creates the appointment;
e. Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills;
8. If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is appointed,
the candidate will notify the President of the District Board of Commissioners in writing within
seven (7) business days of the change.
D. Terms of Members.
1. Ex-Officio Member.
The District Board Commissioner who is appointed as the ex-officio Member shall serve on the
Conservation Council for the length of the Commissioner’s term. Upon an appointment or
election change for the representative from the District Board, the President may provide notice to
Page 4 of 20

 the District Board and the Conservation Council of any such change in ex-officio Member
appointment.
2. The remaining Members. The Chairperson and the other remaining nine (9) Members of the
Conservation Council shall serve terms as follows
a.For the Initial Members,
1. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the ex-officio
Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2015.
2. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the ex-officio
Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2016.
3. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, other than the ex-officio
Member, shall serve a term that expires on December 31, 2017.
4. The Chairperson initially appointed by the President also shall serve a term that expires
on December 31, 2017.
b.

Thereafter, all Members including the Chairperson, but excluding the Ex-Officio Member,
appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years.
1.
2.

Each appointed Member, whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office until a
successor is appointed.
Any appointed Member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy
caused by the expiration of the predecessor's term, shall serve until the expiration
of his or her predecessor's term.

E. Vacancy. A vacancy shall occur upon the:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

Expiration of Member’s term,
Resignation,
Death,
Conviction of a felony, or
Removal from the office of an appointed Member as set forth in paragraph ‘F’ of this
Section.

F. Removal of Members. A Conservation Council Member may be removed for good cause by the President.
Good cause includes inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or any cause which renders the Member unfit
for the position or unable to perform the duties of the position. The President shall provide written notice to
that Member, the General Superintendent, the Conservation Council and the District Board of the proposed
removal of that Member from the Conservation Council; such notice shall state the specific grounds which
constitute cause for removal. The Member, in receipt of such notice, may request to appear before the District
Board and present reasons in support of his or her retention. Thereafter, the District Board shall vote upon
whether there are sufficient grounds to remove that Member from office. The President shall notify the subject
Member of the final action of the District Board.
G. Officers. The Conservation Council shall contain three (3) Members that serve as Officers: (1) Chairperson,
(2) Vice-Chairperson and (3) Secretary. The Chairperson shall be appointed by the President. The Vice
Chairperson and Secretary are elected by the Council. Each of the three officers, respectively, shall be entitled
to vote on all matters before the Conservation Council and may be appointed to serve successive terms as
officers.

Page 5 of 20

 H.

Duties of officers.
1. The Chairperson shall:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Preside at all meetings, when present;
Execute all documents relating to Conservation Council policy or designate such
responsibility as warranted;
Prepare the initial agenda for each meeting; and
Perform any other agenda duties as directed by the Conservation Council.

2. The Vice-Chairperson shall act in the capacity of the Chairperson in the Chairperson’s absence.
In the event the office of the Chairperson becomes vacant, the Vice-Chairperson shall succeed
to this office for the unexpired term or until the President brings forth another appointment that
is recommended by the Nominating Committee and approved by the Board.
3. The Secretary shall maintain the Conservation Council records, including notices for and
minutes of meetings and hearings.
1-18-3

QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS

A. Criteria to be considered in nominating or appointing individuals to serve as Members shall include:
1.

Background and skills needed on the Conservation Council including, but not limited
to expertise in one or more of the following:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
j.
k.
l.
m.

Conservation (practice)
Ecology (science)
Education/interpretation
Cultural resources/archeology/historic preservation
Management/business
Eco- or heritage tourism/market feasibility analysis
Finance
Public policy and planning
Outdoor recreation
Health and wellness
Volunteer management
High level government experience
Working knowledge of the District, Chicago Botanic Garden, Brookfield Zoo
and/or other culturally significant institutions affiliated with, or supportive of,
the District’s statutorily defined purpose.

2.

Resident of Cook County, Illinois;

3.

Availability and willingness to attend Conservation Council meetings quarterly; and

4.

Ability and willingness to:
a. Learn sufficient details about District management and operations in order to
effectively evaluate proposed actions and reports; and
b. Accept and fulfill reasonable assignments from the Chairperson of the
Conservation Council.

Page 6 of 20

 1-18-3 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The President shall call the first meeting of the Conservation Council thereafter, the Members shall prescribe
the times and places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and special meetings may be called.
B Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however, no less than four (4) meetings shall be held
annually.
C. A majority of the voting Members shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations of the Conservation Council
shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting Members of the Conservation Council present and
voting at the meeting at which the action is taken.
D. The Conservation Council may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its
responsibilities.
E. The Conservation Council shall comply in all respects with the Open Meetings Act, as now or hereafter
amended, and found at 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
F. The Conservation Council shall be subject to the Local Records Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at
50 ILCS 205/1, et seq., as well as the Freedom of Information Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at 5
ILCS 140/1, et seq.
G. The Conservation Council shall keep records of its meetings and activities that shall be posted on its website.
1-18-5 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The Conservation Council shall submit to the General Superintendent, the Board of Commissioners and the
President an annual report prior to the end of each calendar year.
B. Included in the report shall be any recommendations for additional legislation or other action which may be
necessary to carry out the mission, purpose and intent of the District with respect to conservation issues.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon approval and adoption.
Legislative History: 7/22/14 Board of Commissioners referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance be
Accept a Substitute. The motion carried by the following vote:

Yeas:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Nays:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)

Page 7 of 20

 Proposed Substitute 14-0375
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
Amending the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “Preserves”) code of ordinances for the purpose of
establishing a Conservation and Policy Council for the purpose of providing additional leadership and expertise in
the conservation area and other related areas.
WHEREAS, One hundred years ago, civic leaders in Chicago had the wisdom and foresight to leave us an
extraordinary gift: the Forest Preserve District of Cook County (the “District”), and;
WHEREAS, in recognition of the need for a renewed vision for the District and as an acknowledgment of this
body’s commitment to a program of renewal, restoration and engagement, on February 18, 2014, the District Board
of Commissioners adopted the Next Century Conservation Plan (the “Plan”), and; FPD WHEREAS, the Plan,
which was developed by a team of civic leaders, organizations and District staff to map the District’s strategic
conservation vision for the next 100 years, calls for transforming the forest preserves to places that foster diversity
of plants, animals and habitats and welcome diverse people, and;
WHEREAS, the Plan also calls for the creation of a Conservation and Policy Council to provide continuous
conservation leadership and expertise to the President and Board of Commissioners of the District.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the District Board of Commissioners that Title I Forest Preserve
Lands and Property, Chapter 18 Conservation and Policy Council of the Code of the District hereby is enacted as
follows:
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1 - OFFICIAL FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT CODE
CHAPTER 2 - SAVING CLAUSE
CHAPTER 3 - DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 4 - GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 5 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS RULES
OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 6 - FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 7 - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 8 – DISTRICT FINANCES
CHAPTER 9 - LAND ACQUISITIONS AND DEDICATIONS
CHAPTER 10 - POLICY OF NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 11 - DRUG-FREE POLICY FOR DISTRICT EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 12 - BOTTLED WATER BAN
CHAPTER 13 - CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 14 - DISTRICT VEHICLE POLICY
CHAPTER 15 - REDUCTION OF WASTE
CHAPTER 16 - GREEN BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 17 - OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
CHAPTER 18 - CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
Page 8 of 20

 ****
CHAPTER 5 FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS RULES OR
ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
***
1-5-1: DEFINITIONS
1-5-2:ORGANIZATION
1-5-3:BUDGET MATTERS
1-5-4:PARLIAMENTARY RULES
1-5-5:[Reserved for Procedures Relating to Revenue Matters]
1-5-6:INTERPRETATION, FORCE AND EFFECT
1-5-7:TRANSITION
****
1-5-2:ORGANIZATION
2-1.President.
a) The President of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County shall be the President of the Board of
Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, and the chief executive officer of the Forest
Preserve District.
b) It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings of the Board and to see that the rules and
regulations of the Board are complied with and enforced. The President shall preserve order and decorum; shall
decide all questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal of the decision as provided by Section 4-17 of these
rules; shall entertain all motions, ordinances or resolutions only in accordance with the provisions of these rules;
and shall generally perform the duties of a presiding officer.
c) President Pro Tempore. At the commencement of a term, the President shall nominate and the Board shall by
resolution elect one (1) Commissioner as President Pro Tempore for such term. The President Pro Tempore
shall, in the absence of the President, preside over meetings of the Board. In addition, in the event the President
is temporarily unable to act in performing the remainder of his or her official duties, the President Pro Tempore
shall perform such duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President until such time as the President
is able to perform such duties or, in the event of a vacancy in the office of the President, until such vacancy is
filled. If the President Pro Tempore shall cease to be a Commissioner or shall resign the office of President Pro
Tempore, the Board shall elect another Commissioner to serve as President Pro Tempore for the remainder of
the term.
2-2. Adoption of Rules. At the commencement of a term, the Board may adopt new rules of organization and
procedure by ordinance setting forth such rules in their entirety and repealing these rules. Such ordinance
must be adopted by a majority of those elected. Rules so adopted shall supersede these rules.
2-3.Committees.
(a) The committees of the Board shall be:
i. The standing committees and their standing subcommittees listed in Rule 2-6;
ii. Special committees created by Board resolution under Rule 2-5; and
iii. Special subcommittees created by standing committees or by special committees under Rule 2-5.
Subcommittees may not create subcommittees.
(b) The President shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of all committees in addition to the Commissioners who
are appointed committee members.
Page 9 of 20

 (c) A vacancy on a committee, or in the Chair or Vice-Chair position on a committee, shall be created when a
Commissioner resigns from such position or ceases to be a Commissioner. Resignations shall be made in
writing to the Secretary who shall promptly notify the President and all Commissioners.
(d) Vacancies on committees or in the positions of Chair or Vice-Chair shall be filled by appointment by the same
appointing authority as the initial appointments to such committee. In the case of committee appointments made
by the Board, the Board shall fill vacancies by resolution. In the case of vacancies on special subcommittees that
were created by committees, the parent committee shall fill the vacancy by motion.
(e) Any Commissioner, regardless of whether a Chair, Vice-Chair or member of the committee, and the President
shall be afforded the courtesy of participating in debate on any item before a committee.
(f) The Chair of a committee or subcommittee shall have the authority to call and preside at meetings of such
committee or subcommittee. In the absence of the Chair, the Vice-Chair shall perform the functions of the
Chair.
(g) The Secretary shall, at the end of each fiscal year, submit to the President and the Board a summary of all items
pending in each committee.
2-4. Membership and Officers of Standing Committees.
(a) At the commencement of each term, the members of each standing committee and standing subcommittee shall
be appointed for the term by resolution adopted by a majority of those elected.
(b) At the commencement of each term, the Chair and Vice-Chair of each standing committee and standing
subcommittee shall be appointed for the term by resolution of the Board adopted by a majority of those elected.
2-5. Special Committees and Subcommittees.
(a) The Board may create special committees by resolution adopted by a majority of those elected. The appointed
members of a special committee shall be designated by resolution.
(b) A committee may create a special subcommittee by motion adopted by a majority of the Commissioners who
are voting members of the committee.
(c) The resolution or motion creating a special committee or special subcommittee shall specify the subject matter
of the special committee or subcommittee and the number of members to be appointed thereto, and may specify
a reporting date during the term in which event the special committee or subcommittee shall be abolished as of
such date. Unless an earlier date is specified by resolution or motion, special committees and subcommittees
shall expire at the end of the term.
2-6. Standing Committees. The standing committees of the Board, their standing subcommittees and the number of
members to be appointed to each (including Chair and Vice-Chair) are as follows:
AUDIT (7) - Chief Financial Officer shall be an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Audit Committee
BOTANIC GARDEN (10)
CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (10)
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE (9)

Page 10 of 20

 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL (7)
FINANCE (Committee of the Whole) with the following subcommittees with the number of members indicated:
Labor (7)
Litigation (7)
Workers' Compensation (5)
LAW ENFORCEMENT (9)
LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (Committee of the Whole)
REAL ESTATE (Committee of the Whole)
RECREATION (9)
RULES (9)
ZOOLOGICAL (10)
2-7. Referrals to Committees. The Board may by motion refer any item before the Board to a committee or to a
subcommittee. The Chair of a committee may refer an item pending in that committee to a subcommittee of that
committee. An item referred by the Board to any committee or subcommittee, or by a committee chair to a
subcommittee, shall not be jointly referred to any other committee or subcommittee. Only upon the return of the
item to the Board, either by report of the committee or by the Board's discharge of the item from the committee or
subcommittee, may the Board refer the item to another committee or subcommittee.
All items referred to committee or subcommittee by the Board shall be designated with a Communication Number
as assigned by the Secretary.
No committee or subcommittee shall meet for any purpose other than to consider one or more items designated by
Communication Numbers.
The Secretary shall refer the draft Journal of Proceedings directly to the Committee on Rules and Administration
and provide a Communication Number within twenty-one (21) days of a Board meeting.
2-8. Public Hearings of Committees. Any committee meeting may, at the discretion of the Chair, be designated as a
public hearing; provided that the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) A paid notice containing the time, place, subject matter of the hearing, and solicitation of pertinent public
testimony shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Cook County;
(2) A like notice shall be posted on the website maintained by the Secretary;
(3)

A court reporter is present and reporting all written and oral testimony by members of the public;

(4)

All oral testimony by members of the public shall be the first order of business after the committee is called
to order; and

(5)

Any other meeting notification requirements found elsewhere in these rules.
Page 11 of 20

 2-9. Reporting by Committees. Notwithstanding any action to be undertaken by committees or subcommittees
pursuant to this section, only the Board may take final action on any item referred to a committee or subcommittee.
Committees shall report to the Board, and subcommittees shall report to their parent committees, subsequent to the
adjournment of a meeting of the committee or subcommittee.
The report of any committee or subcommittee shall be comprised of two (2) sections.
The first section of the report, "the text," shall constitute the minutes of the meeting for which the report was
prepared and shall contain: a list of the attendees; an account of the items considered; a summary of the
deliberations, including motions and amendments proposed and/or adopted; all votes taken; the result of said votes;
and any attachments to the record as ordered by the Chair.
The second section of the report shall include a summary of certain actions taken at the meeting for which the report
was prepared. For purposes of this section, action is defined as motions, duly seconded and carried, to adopt one (1)
of the six (6) following statements of intent with respect to a Communication Numbered item:
(1) Recommend for Approval;
(2) Recommend for Approval as Amended;
(3) Not Recommended for Approval;
(4) Not Recommended for Approval as Amended;
(5) Recommended for Receiving and Filing; and
(6) Returned With No Recommendation.
The committee's adoption of any one (1) of the above six (6) statements of intent, as reported to the Board, shall
constitute conclusive action by the committee on a Communication Numbered item, and shall automatically
discharge the committee from further jurisdiction of the item. Absent the attachment of one (1) of these six (6)
statements of intent to the Communication Numbered item, such item will remain in committee unless discharged
by the Board.
The Board's approval of a committee report that contains a statement(s) of intent as set forth in numbers (1) through
(5) above in this section will constitute final Board action on the item(s) attached to the statement(s) of intent. The
Board's approval of a committee report that contains a statement of intent as set forth in number (6), "Returned With
No Recommendation," places the item before the Board for immediate consideration.
Commissioners present and voting on a motion to approve a committee report retain the right to divide their vote
with regard to each item contained in the second section of the report, or to request a separate vote, either by voice or
roll call, on such items, regardless of the action taken in Committee and prior to the approval of the committee
report.
2-10. Discharge of Committee by the Board. The Board may discharge any item from committee by a majority
vote.
2-11. Confirmation of Presidential Appointments. All appointments and reappointments of the President requiring
the advice and consent of the Board shall be referred to the Legislation and Intergovernmental Relations Committee
upon the President's submission. The Committee shall promptly hold such hearings as it deems appropriate and
shall, no later than thirty (30) days after referral, report all such appointments to the Board with a recommendation
for action. If the Committee has not made a timely report on any appointment, the appointment shall, at the next
Page 12 of 20

 regular meeting of the Board following the expiration of such thirty (30) days, be referred to the Board with "no
recommendation" by the Committee.
2-12. Advisory Committee.
(a) This Committee shall be deemed defunct, dissolved and replaced by the Conservation and Policy Council
established by Title 1, Chapter 18 of the District Code of Ordinances. consist of citizens of the District who
shall serve at the will of the President and in connection with the Board of Commissioners, shall constitute the
Advisory Committee of the District.
(b) The Committee shall consider and recommend to the Board such action as it shall deem appropriate and
necessary to fulfill and accomplish, in the largest measure, the objects and purposes of the District in its
establishment and development.
(c)

This Committee shall be appointed by the President with the concurrence of a majority of the members of the
Board. No person shall be appointed to the Advisory Committee who is a member or employee of the Board.
There shall be not less than seven (7) or more than seventeen (17) members of the Advisory Committee.

****
CHAPTER 18 CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
1-18-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
1-18-2 MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION AND POLICY COUNCIL
1-18-3 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
1-18-4 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
1-18-5 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
1-18-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Short Title. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Conservation and Policy Council Ordinance.
B. Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following words or terms shall have the meaning or construction
ascribed to them in this Section:
1. Council means the eleven (11) member Conservation and Policy Council charged with providing public
recommendations to the President, Board of Commissioners, and Superintendent on all matters relating to the
conservation policies of the District and the Next Century Conservation Plan.
2. Chairperson means the chairperson of the Conservation and Policy Council.
3. District means the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois.
4. District Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois.
5. Member means a Member of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Conservation and Policy Council.
6. Ordinance means the Ordinance Establishing the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Conservation and
Policy Council Ordinance, as amended.
7. Plan means the Next Century Conservation Plan for the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois,
Resolution 14-0091, adopted by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Commissioners on February 18,
2014.
8. President means the President of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois.
9. Superintendent means the General Superintendent of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois.
Page 13 of 20

 C. Purpose. The purpose of the Conservation and Policy Council is to safeguard, expand and bring additional
resources to the District by providing public recommendations regarding conservation, based on the Council’s
knowledge, skill, leadership and expertise in the field of conservation and other related areas, to the President,
District Board, and the Superintendent of the District. The Council shall review and evaluate the implementation of
the Plan.
D. Declaration. The District Board hereby establishes the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Conservation
and Policy Council ("Council"). The District Board hereby finds and declares that the Council shall do, but not be
limited to, the following:
1. Develop and annually update a five-year strategic and financial plan to operationalize the Plan and
annually recommend adoption of the updated strategic and financial plan to the President, District Board,
and the Superintendent of the District.;
2. Review and make recommendations to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent about the
annual budget and its alignment with the strategic and financial plan;
3. Review and make recommendations to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent about
conservation policies and practices;
4. Review and make recommendations to the President, District Board, and the Superintendent about
opportunities to maximize public and private financial resources to accomplish conservation goals and
initiatives; and
5. Provide public recommendations, as needed, to improve the District’s operations and conservation
leadership.
1-18-2 MEMBERS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. General. The appointed Members shall receive no compensation for their service, but may be reimbursed for
actual and necessary expenses while serving on the Conservation Council.
B. Number of Members. There shall be eleven (11) Members of the Conservation Council.
1. One Chairperson (1)
2. One Ex Officio (1)
3. Nine Members (9)
C. Appointment of Members. One of the eleven (11) Members shall be Chairperson, appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the District Board and one of the eleven (11) shall be an Ex-Officio Member. The
Ex-Officio Member shall be a District Board Commissioner, appointed by the President with the advice and consent
of the District Board. The Ex-Officio Member shall be a voting Member of the Council. The Ex-Officio Member
shall serve as a liaison between the District Board and the Council. The ten (10) remaining Members, including the
Chairperson, shall be appointed in the following manner:
1. Initial Appointments. The President shall appoint all Initial Members of the Council with the advice and
consent of the District Board based on the criteria established in Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of
Ordinances.
2. Subsequent Appointments. After the first term of each of the Initial Member appointments expires or are
otherwise terminated, Members of the Council will be selected as follows:
Page 14 of 20

 3. The President, in consultation with the Council, will appoint a Nominating Committee, comprised of at
least 5 individuals to recommend replacement or renewal of Members as terms expire.
a. A majority of the Nominating Committee members will be representatives of not-for-profit
organizations that have as their primary focus conservation of nature, land and/or water.
b. One member of the Nominating Committee will be a representative of a not-for-profit
organization that has as its primary focus government finance and public policy.
c. The Nominating Committee may include up to two Council members.
4. The Nominating Committee will review the qualifications of individuals on the criteria established in
Section 1-18-3 of the District’s Code of Ordinances, and will present at least one nomination for each
vacant position to the President before the end of the term.
5. The President, with advice and consent from the District Board will select from the Nominating
Committee’s list and present one name for each vacancy to the District Board for concurrence.
6. If the Board does not approve appointment of the recommended candidate(s), the President may go back
to the original recommendations of the Nominating Committee, or request additional names from the
Nominating Committee.
7. Prior to their confirmation hearing, each candidate for appointment by the President or Board of
Commissioners shall submit a notarized, signed affidavit to the Chairman of the Legislation and
Intergovernmental Relations Committee of the District Board, that:
a. Is signed by the candidate;
b. Is sworn under oath, under penalties of perjury;
c. Is notarized;
d. Attests that the candidate fulfills the requirements set forth under the requisite statute, ordinance,
law or regulation that creates the appointment;
e. Attests that the candidate possesses the adequate qualifications and skills;
8. If there is any change in the information contained in the affidavit after the candidate is appointed, the
candidate will notify the President and the District Board in writing within seven (7) business days of the
change.
D. Terms of Members.
1. Ex-Officio Member.
The District Board Commissioner who is appointed as the ex-officio Member shall serve on the Council for
the length of the Commissioner’s term. Upon an appointment or election change for the representative from
the District Board, the President shall provide notice to the District Board and the Council of any such
change in ex-officio Member appointment.
2. The remaining Members. The Chairperson and the other remaining nine (9) Members of the Council
shall serve terms as follows
a. For the Initial Members,
1. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the District Board, other than the ex-officio Member, shall serve a term that
expires on December 31, 2015.

Page 15 of 20

 2. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President, with the advice and
consent of the District Board, her than the ex-officio Member, shall serve a term that
expires on December 31, 2016.
3. Three (3) of the Members initially appointed by the President with the advice and
consent of the District Board, other than the ex-officio Member, shall serve a term that
expires on December 31, 2017.
4. The Chairperson initially elected by the Members also shall serve a term that expires on
December 31, 2017.
b. Thereafter, all Members including the Chairperson, but excluding the Ex-Officio Member,
appointed shall serve a term of three (3) years.
1. Each appointed Member, whether initial or subsequent, shall hold office until a
successor is appointed, except in cases of removal.
2. Any appointed Member who is appointed to fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy caused
by the expiration of the predecessor's term, shall serve until the expiration of his or her
predecessor's term.
E. Vacancy. A vacancy shall occur upon the:
a. Expiration of Member’s term,
b. Resignation,
c. Death,
d. Conviction of a felony, or
e. Removal from the office of an appointed Member as set forth in paragraph ‘F’ of this Section.
F. Removal of Members. A Council Member may be removed for good cause by the President. Good cause includes
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or any cause which renders the Member unfit for the position or unable
to perform the duties of the position. The President shall provide written notice to that Member, the Conservation
Council, the District Board, and the General Superintendent of the proposed removal of that Member from the
Council; such notice shall state the specific grounds which constitute cause for removal. The Member, in receipt of
such notice, may request to appear before the District Board and present reasons in support of his or her retention.
Thereafter, the District Board shall vote upon whether there are sufficient grounds to remove that Member from
office. The President shall notify the subject Member of the final action of the District Board.
G. Officers. The Council shall contain three (3) Members that serve as Officers: (1) Chairperson, (2)
Vice-Chairperson and (3) Secretary. The Chairperson. Vice Chairperson and Secretary are elected by the Council.
Each of the three officers, respectively, shall be entitled to vote on all matters before the Council and may be
appointed to serve successive terms as officers. The Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary shall serve for
one year terms.
H. Duties of officers.
1. The Chairperson shall:
a. Preside at all meetings, when present;
b. Execute all documents relating to Council policy or designate such responsibility as warranted;
c. Prepare the initial agenda for each meeting; and
d. Perform any other agenda duties as directed by the Council.

Page 16 of 20

 2. The Vice-Chairperson shall act in the capacity of the Chairperson in the Chairperson’s absence. In the
event the office of the Chairperson becomes vacant, the Vice-Chairperson shall succeed to this office for
the unexpired term or until the President brings forth another appointment that is recommended by the
Nominating Committee and approved by the District Board.
3. The Secretary shall maintain the Council records, including notices for and minutes of meetings and
hearings.
I. The Council may create standing or ad hoc Subcommittees. The Chairperson may appoint non-voting members to
those subcommittees. The District shall assign appropriate staff to the Council so that the Council may further and
carry out its purposes and activities.
J. Disclosure of interests required.
1. Any Member, who has direct or indirect interest in any contract or transaction with the District, shall
disclose this interest in writing to the Council which shall, in turn, notify the President and the District
Board of such interest.
2. This interest shall be set forth in the minutes of the Council and the Member having such interest shall not
participate on behalf of the Council in any way with regard to such contract or transaction unless the
Council or District Board waives the conflict.
3. The Cook County Board of Ethics shall have jurisdiction over the investigation and enforcement of this
section and over the sanctions for violations as set forth in Sections1-13-4 and 1-13-5 of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County Code of Ethical Conduct.
1-18-3 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS
A. Criteria to be considered in nominating or appointing individuals to serve as Members shall include:
1. Background and skills needed on the Council including, but not limited to expertise in one or more of the
following:
a. Conservation (practice)
b. Ecology (science)
c. Education/interpretation
d. Cultural resources/archeology/historic preservation
e. Management/business
f. Eco- or heritage tourism/market feasibility analysis
g. Finance
h. Public policy and planning
i. Outdoor recreation
j. Health and wellness
k. Volunteer management
l. High level government experience
m. Working knowledge of the District, Chicago Botanic Garden, Brookfield Zoo and/or other
culturally significant institutions affiliated with, or supportive of, the District’s statutorily defined
purpose.
2. Resident of Cook County, Illinois;
3. Availability and willingness to attend Council meetings quarterly; and

Page 17 of 20

 4. Ability and willingness to:
a. Learn sufficient details about District management and operations in order to effectively evaluate
proposed actions and reports; and
b. Accept and fulfill reasonable assignments from the Chairperson of the Council.
1-18-3 MEETINGS OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The President shall call the first meeting of the Council. Thereafter, the Members shall prescribe the times and
places for their meetings and the manner in which regular and special meetings may be called.
B. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, however, no less than four (4) meetings shall be held
annually.
C. A majority of the voting Members shall constitute a quorum. Recommendations of the Council shall require the
affirmative vote of a majority of the voting Members of the Council present and voting at the meeting at which the
action is taken.
D. The Council may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the performance of any of its responsibilities.
E. The Council shall comply in all respects with the Open Meetings Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at
5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
F. The Council shall be subject to the Local Records Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at 50 ILCS 205/1,
et seq., as well as the Freedom of Information Act, as now or hereafter amended, and found at 5 ILCS 140/1, et seq.
G. The Council shall keep records of its meetings and activities that shall be posted on its website.
1-18-5 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE CONSERVATION COUNCIL
A. The Council shall submit to the District Board, the President, and the Superintendent an annual report prior to the
end of each calendar year.
B. Included in the report shall be:
1. any recommendations for additional legislation or other action which may be necessary to carry out the
mission, purpose and intent of the District with respect to conservation issues; and
2. a report on the progress of the District towards meeting the specific goals set forth in the Plan.
C. The Council shall submit the minutes of its meetings to the District Board within 30 days of each meeting. The
minutes shall be received and filed by the District Board.
****
TITLE 2
FOREST PRESERVE LANDS AND PROEPRTY
CHAPTER 1AVIATION IN FOREST PRESERVES
CHAPTER 2PROTECTION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND WILDLIFE
CHAPTER 3TRESPASS AND USE OF PROERPTY
CHAPTER 4RECREATION IN FOREST PRESERVES
CHAPTER 5AUTHORIZED CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
Page 18 of 20

 ***
CHAPTER 5 – AUTHORIZED CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
2-5-1:PURPOSE
2-5-2:REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZED CONVEYANCE OF FOREST PRESERVE LAND
2-5-3:SALE OF SURPLUS FOREST PRESERVE LAND
2-5-4:TRANSFER OF LAND
2-5-5:ANNEXATION
2-5-6:EMINENT DOMAIN
2-5-7:EASEMENTS
2-5-8:REQUIRED REVIEW FACTORS
***
2-5-8 – REQUIRED REVIEW FACTORS
A.

B.

Various factor will be considered in reviewing a proposed transfer, sale, easement, or use of land including
(a) the interest of the District,; (b) the benefits to the public in relation to the burden imposed on the District;
(c) the land management policies of the District; (d) the protection, preservation, restoration and restocking
of the trees, forests, property, flora, fauna, wildlife, natural resources and scenic beauties of the District; (e)
the safety and general welfare of the public and of the Applicant; and (f) such other factors as the District
deems relevant to the particular case. The Board of Commissioners recognizes that each situation and
request is unique. Any action taken by the Board of Commissioners or the General Superintendent under
this Ordinance is dependent upon the particular facts and circumstances of each case.
1.

The General Superintendent with the Planning and Development Department shall review any land
conveyance proposal and prepare a report for the Board of Commissioners of the Cook County
Forest Preserve District, who may refer the matter to the Citizens' Advisory Committee and the Real
Estate Committee. The report shall review the proposal in terms of the factors outlined in A (above)
and compatibility with the mission of the Cook County Forest Preserve District. No land
conveyance proposal shall be acted upon by the Board without such report. The General
Superintendent shall, on a regular basis, forward a list of the rejected proposals to the Board of
Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District.

2.

Proposals deemed to be in accordance with the mission of the Forest Preserve District shall be
referred to the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District who may refer the matter to
the appropriate committee(s) including the Citizen's Advisory Committee and the Real Estate
Committee. The committee recommendations shall be forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for
action. No land conveyance proposal shall be acted upon by the Board without such committee(s)
recommendation(s).

Public Notice.
1.

Notice of any proposals regarding conveyance of the land and all meetings in relation to said use or
conveyance shall be made public. No less than three (3) full business days before any meeting of the
Board or a committee or subcommittee, notice shall be provided to all Commissioners and to all
news media and organizations that have requested notice of Board meetings and shall be made
available to the public in the office of the Secretary (FPD Code 1-5-4). The website of the Cook
Page 19 of 20

 County Forest Preserve District shall also include a dedicated page listing all real estate acquisitions
and proposed transfer, sale, easement or use of land. The page shall be updated in a timely manner as
action is taken. In addition, notice shall be posted at the location of the proposed land conveyance.
2.

All meetings of the Citizens Advisory Committee shall be open to the public in accordance with the
Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).

***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon approval and adoption.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Steele, that this Ordinance be
Adopted as Amended by Substitution. The motion carried by the following vote:

Yeas:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Nays:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)

ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Commissioner Sims, seconded by Commissioner Daley, that this committee be
adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:
Yeas:

Chairperson Suffredin, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Garcia, Gorman, Reyes, Schneider,
Silvestri, Sims, Steele and Tobolski (11)

Nays:

Vice Chair Fritchey, Commissioners Collins, Gainer, Goslin, Moore and Murphy (6)
SECTION 2
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN

File 14-0375……………..……………………………………..….Recommended for Approval as Substituted

Respectfully submitted,

___________________________________
Chairman

_________________________________
Secretary

*A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com

Page 20 of 20

 