REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION,
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND VETERANS RELATIONS

May 7, 2008

The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Suffredin, Vice Chairman Silvestri, Commissioners Beavers,
Claypool, Daley, Gorman, Goslin, Maldonado, Murphy, Peraica, Quigley,
Schneider and Sims (13)

Absent: Commissioners Butler, Collins, Moreno and Steele (4)

Also Present: Takashi Reinbold Interim Revenue Director

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental and Veterans Relations of the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Wednesday, May 7, 2008 at the hour
of 9:30 AM. in the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago,
Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

293637 REVENUE DIRECTOR (APPOINTMENT) Transmitting a Communication from
Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners:

Pursuant to Chapter 2 Administration, Section 2-433 of the Cook County Code
of Ordinances, I hereby appoint TAKASHI REINBOLD to the position of
Revenue Director effective immediately.

Mr. Reinbold holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the
University of Arkansas and has a long and distinguished career in public
service. Takashi Reinbold is highly experienced in government finance and will
be an asset to Cook County as Revenue Director.

I submit this communication for your approval.



Referred to the Committee on Legislation, Intergovernmental and
Veterans Relations on April 23, 2008.

Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved the approval of
Communication Number 293637.

LEGISLATION, INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND
VETERANS RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
MAY 7, 2008

PAGE 2

Mr. Reinbold gave his presentation to the Committee members. (See Attachment 

Chairman Suffredin asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen
0n the motion to approve, a voice vote was taken and the motion carried.
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Vice Chairman Silvestri, moved to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.
YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:
Communication Number 293637 Approved
Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Legislation,

Intergovernmental and Veterans
Relations



Larry Suffredin, Chairman

 



/Ma1{hyw B. DeLeon, Secretary

The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Office of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

   

I huul?

DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
TODD H. STROGER, PRESIDENT

 

Earlean Cellos 1sl Dist Mike Duigley mm Dist TAKASHI REIN BOLD,
Robert Steele 2"d Dist John P. Daley 11'" Dist
Jerry Butler Cl" Dist Forrest Claypr 12'" Dist INTERIM DIRECTOR
William Beavers Dist Lawrence Sulfredin 13"? Dist
Deborah Sims Dist Gregg 60an 14'" Dist . .
Joan Murphy Dist Timothy 0 Schneider 15'? Dist County 
Joseph Mario Moreno 7m Dist Anthony J. Peraica 16lh Dist 118 North Clark Street, Room 1160
Roberto Maldonado ll'" Dist Elizabeth Ann Doody Gorman 1i"h Dist Chicago, "?nois 505024 304
Petal Slwesm 9th DISL TEL, (312) 603-6870

FAX: (312) 603-5771

May 7, 2008

The Honorable Lawrence Suffredin

Chairman Legislation, intergovernmental 8. Veterans Relations Committee
Cook County Board of Commissioners

118 N. Clark St,

Room 567

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Dear Chairman Suffredin and Members of the Committee,

I would like begin by thanking President Stroger for offering me this Opportunity to sit before you in seeking your support
for approval of my appointment to the position of Director of Revenue. My career at Cook County encompasses 25
years of service. have a BSBA from University of Arkansas. My service career at the County started in the Cook County
Auditor Of?ce, then on to the Cook County Position Classi?cation Agency, Department of Budget and Management
Services {22 years), and now currently acting in the position of Director of Revenue.

I am enthusiastically working towards the modernization of the Department of Revenue. know that my efforts can be
constructive in trying to provide services for the tax payers. I will follow the progressive efforts of other entities in solving
problems and try to encourage the use of these efforts at all times. My process will start with making sure all parties
including and users are involved in the process of improvement. Furthermore, automation is a key player in the
improvement of processes in this department, but we must not get caught up in the short term cost oversight by
neglecting the long term impact of these improvements. As I plan for these improvements, the long term impact will be
considered a signi?cant component of the plan. Examples of some changes would be online tax returns for the various
home rule taxes, which are mostly submitted on a basis and another plan is working with the Treasurer in
automating the Scavenger Tax Sale. We are using the GIS application to ?nd unincorporated addresses. However, it
takes a cooperative effort from all parties with a stake in the services of the entity to make sure that revenues are
collected as efficiently as possible. These types of automation projects will relieve personnel time dedicated to manual
input processes, to time available in helping with improving enforcement and compliance of home rule taxes. The main
idea of the automation is that revenue reporting and collection efforts will be easier and more accurate.

My goal is to ultimately work towards improving the Department of Revenue?s service to the Citizen?s of Cook County
and to other County departments. As discussed, automation will be a key component in offering taxpayers easy-to-
understand and efficient ways of doing business. This will ultimately provide taxpayers doing business with the
Department of Revenue 3 more professional, productive experience. My vision embraces the use of the latest
technological advancement, along with automation and training, to successfully carry out the duties of the department
while knowing that my highest priority is serving the taxpayers.

Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,

r/w 

Takashi Rein old

  

Acting Director of Revenue

0?
$3

on Piper

August 1986 to
Present

June, 1984 to
August 1986

July, 1983 to
June 1984

Graduation May
1 983

 

Takashi Reinhold

Professional Experience

Cook County Budget Department
Deputy Director Data Services
Responsibilities include:

Manage production of Tax Levy, Executive Recommendation, Annual
Appropriation Bill, and Newspaper publication.

Manage of the Budget Network System and the databases in the Budget
Department.

Ad hoc reporting based upon requests ?om the President, hief Financial

Officer, and Budget Director when such reports are not available on JD
Edwards.

Forecasting of Estimated Expenditures and Revenues for the purpose of
sustainability.

Reconcile amendments in order to prepare a balanced budget for use by the
entire Cook County Government.

Prepare the Balanced Budget for the County Financial System and create
the Position File for Payroll implementation purposes.

Monitor the county spending by reviewing expenditures. Determine the
pattern of the spending based on historical trend analysis.

Created a New Non Union Pay Plan to address over generous step
increases.

Cost analysis for labor negotiations. Determine future costs of proposed
plans and forecast future costs of existing or rati?ed plans.

Technical Advisor on format and compliance of budget requests.

Cook County Position Classi?cation Agency

Job Analyst - Performed job reviews and interviews for the purpose of job
reclassifications.

Conducted salary surveys for Semi- annual Metropolitan Salary Survey.

Performed staffing and time studies with Industrial Engineers.

Cook County Auditor

Field Auditor - Performed audits of financial statements of fee generating
departments as well as expenditure review of grants. Review of internal
financial controls.

Education

University of A rkansas

ayetteville, Arkansas
B.S.B.A. - Major in Accounting

