Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Criminal Justice Committee

Wednesday, September 9, 2015

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:

PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting.
Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting
agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will
forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the
meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and
advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately;
failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may
result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

15-5212
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 07/29/2015

15-4648
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
APPOINTING A COOK COUNTY GUN VIOLENCE CZAR AND ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY
GUN VIOLENCE TASK FORCE
WHEREAS, the past seven months have seen dramatically escalating levels of gun violence in Cook County,
Page 1 of 6

 especially in the County seat of Chicago; and
WHEREAS, in that time, more than 1,500 people in the City of Chicago have been victims of shootings; and
WHEREAS, more than 2,600 have been victims of shootings in the City of Chicago since January 1, 2014; and
WHEREAS, the past seven months have seen a major rise in shootings on Chicago area expressways, with the
Illinois State Police reporting at least 20 expressway shootings since the start of the 2015, including the most
recent such expressway shooting which took place on the Eisenhower Expressway on July 20, 2015 and resulted
in the partial shutdown of the Eisenhower Expressway; and
WHEREAS, 19 Chicago area expressway shootings occurred in all of 2014; and
WHEREAS, 16 Chicago area expressway shootings occurred on Chicago area expressways in all of 2013; and
WHEREAS, in 2015, year to date, 259 people have died in the City of Chicago of as a result of gunshot wounds;
and
WHEREAS, of those 259, roughly 10% were under the age of 18, and 56% were under 26; and
WHEREAS, of those who died in 2014 as a result of gunshot wounds, 14% were under the age of 18, and 59%
were under 26; and
WHEREAS, of those who died in 2013 as a result of gunshot wounds, 12% were under the age of 18, and 54%
were under 26; and
WHEREAS, despite being only 25% of the population of the City of Chicago, the Cook County Medical
Examiner reports that 80% of those killed by gunshot wounds in 2015 have been African American.
Specifically, in 2015, year to date, there have been 259 deaths from gunshot wounds, and 207 of those deaths
were African American; and
WHEREAS, despite being only 25% of the population of the City of Chicago, the Cook County Medical
Examiner reports that 80% of those killed by gunshot wounds in 2014 were African American. Specifically, in
2014, there were 455 deaths from gunshot wounds, and 363 of those deaths were African American; and
WHEREAS, despite being only 25% of the population of the City of Chicago, the Cook County Medical
Examiner reports that 80% of those killed by gunshot wounds in 2013 were African American. Specifically, in
2013, there were 425 deaths from gunshot wounds, and 345 of those deaths were African American; and
WHEREAS, the University of Chicago Crime Lab estimated that gun violence in the City of Chicago costs the
taxpayers $2.5 billion each year; and
WHEREAS, the economic burden of that $2.5 billion cost of gun violence translates to $2,500 per household;
and
WHEREAS, a joint report by Ted Miller of the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation and Mother Jones
Magazine contains findings that gun violence across the country costs the United States $229 billion each year;
and
WHEREAS, that same joint report contains findings that gun violence in Illinois costs the state $9.6 billion each
year, or about $750 per person; and
WHEREAS, Cook County government has an obligation to take action to protect its residents and taxpayers
from gun violence and the resulting cost and trauma to the County; and
Page 2 of 6

 WHEREAS, Cook County government, like all units of government, has an obligation to its residents and
taxpayers to do everything possible to preserve life, reduce instances of gun violence and minimize the harmful
effects that follow acts of gun violence;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED that the President of Cook County and the Board of Commissioners
hereby appoint a Cook County Gun Violence Czar and establish a Cook County Gun Violence Task Force; and,
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 14 Community
Development, Article VIII Gun Violence Czar and Gun Violence Task Force, Sec. 14-80 through Sec. 14-89 is
hereby enacted as follows:
CHAPTER 14- COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE VIII. GUN VIOLENCE CZAR AND GUN VIOLENCE TASK FORCE
Sec. 14-80. Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Gun Violence Czar and Gun Violence Task Force Act.
Sec. 14-81. Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, except where otherwise
specifically indicated:
Board of Commissioners or County Board means the Board of Commissioners for Cook County, Illinois.
Member means appointed members of the Gun Violence Task Force.
County means “Cook County, Illinois.”
Cook County Code means the Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Illinois.
Czar means the Gun Violence Czar.
Ordinance means this ordinance appointing a Gun Violence Czar and establishing the Gun Violence Task Force.
President means the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
Report means the Cook County Gun Violence Report.
State means State of Illinois.
Task Force means the Gun Violence Task Force.
Sec. 14-82. Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this Ordinance is to appoint a Gun Violence Czar and create the Gun Violence Task Force,
which will serve as an investigative and fact-finding body with the objective of recommending a set of policies
to the President and County Board designed to reduce gun violence in Cook County over a period of six months.
(b) The Task Force will hold public hearings chaired by the Gun Violence Czar to gather testimony and data
about the economic, social, and cultural causes of gun violence in Cook County and the best methodology for
Page 3 of 6

 reducing gun violence. The hearings shall take place over a period of time not to exceed six months and shall
culminate in a written set of policy recommendations put forth under the authorship of the Gun Violence Czar
and designed to reduce gun violence in Cook County effective January 1, 2016.
(c) Such hearings shall be held in the Cook County Board Room on the 5th Floor of the Cook County building
at 118 North Clark Street in Chicago, Illinois, and the Gun Violence Czar and Task Force shall have full access
to resources necessary to conduct said hearings and make a record of said hearings.
Sec. 14-83. Compliance with law.
As an investigative and fact-finding body empowered by the President and County Board, the Gun Violence
Czar and Task Force shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, rules, regulations, and orders.
Sec. 14-84. Task Force Membership.
(a) The Task Force shall consist of 9 members:
(1) One member designated as the Gun Violence Czar. The Czar shall be appointed by the President, subject to
approval by the County Board. The Czar shall serve as the official liaison between the Task Force and local,
state, and federal officials, and the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The Czar shall have the power to
convene public meetings of the Task Force.
(2) One Cook County Commissioner serving as an Ex-Officio Member of the Commission with voting rights.
The Ex-Officio Member selected from the Board of Commissioners shall be the same Commissioner tasked with
chairing the Cook County Board of Commissioners’ Committee on Human Relations.
(3) One additional member appointed by the President.
(4) Two members appointed by the Cook County State’s Attorney.
(5) Two members appointed by the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
(6) Two members appointed by the Cook County Sheriff.
14-85. Term of Office.
Unless otherwise provided or revised, the members of the Gun Violence Task Force shall be appointed for a
term of six months, subject to the approval of, and extension by the County Board.
14-86. Quorum Requirement, Absenteeism, Administration.
(a) A quorum shall be necessary in order to conduct all hearings of the Task Force.
14-87. Expert Testimony.
(a) The primary method of investigation by the Task Force shall be the solicitation, hearing, recording and
transcription of expert testimony. Such expert testimony shall include but not be limited to the following
categories of professionals:
(1) Law Enforcement
(2) Physicians and Nurse Practitioners
Page 4 of 6

 (3) Medical Examiners
(4) Government Officials
(5) Experts in Psychiatry and Psychology
(6) Social Scientists with expertise in any of the following areas:
a.Economics
b.Criminal Justice
c.Conflict Management and Resolution
(7) Faith and Community Leaders
14-88. Cook County Gun Violence Report.
Having concluded all hearings and investigatory functions, the Gun Violence Czar shall compile the testimony
collected by the Task Force, and based on the information furnished through such testimony, shall author and
tender a Cook County Gun Violence Report. The length of time between the first hearing and the completion of
the Report shall not exceed six months. The Report will contain an overview of factors contributing to gun
violence in Cook County, the effects of gun violence on victims and community members, and a set of policy
recommendations designed to reduce gun violence and the harmful effects associated with gun violence. The
Report shall be furnished to the President, the Board of Commissioners, and all countywide elected and
appointed officials. Once the Report is furnished to the aforesaid officials, the Task Force shall convene to
review the totality of its proceedings to date and determine the steps necessary in order to implement the policy
recommendations set forth in the Report.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History: 7/29/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee

15-4728
Sponsored by: RICHARD R. BOYKIN, County Commissioner
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CALLING UPON THE JUSTICE ADVISORY COUNCIL AND THE DEPARTMENT OF PROCUREMENT
TO REPORT TO THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ON THE SCORING CRITERIA
FOR ITS VIOLENCE PREVENTION GRANT AWARDS AND THE ROLE PLAYED BY COMMUNITY
VIOLENCE LEVELS IN DETERMINING VIOLENCE PREVENTION GRANT RECIPIENTS
WHEREAS, on July 1, 2015, the Cook County Board of Commissioners approved the award of $800,000.00 in
violence prevention grants under a process overseen by the Justice Advisory Council of Cook County; and,
WHEREAS, of the $800,000.00 in violence prevention grant funds awarded on July 1, 2015, no such funds were
awarded to organizations doing the work of violence prevention in the Chicago neighborhoods of Austin, East
Garfield Park, West Garfield Park, and North Lawndale; and,
WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of Austin leads all 77 Chicago neighborhoods in homicides, has the
11th highest violent crime rate in Chicago, and has an unemployment rate of 21%, with 27% of its households
Page 5 of 6

 living below the poverty level; and,
WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of East Garfield Park has the 4th highest violent crime rate in Chicago,
and has an unemployment rate of 16.4% with 39.7% of households living below the poverty level; and,
WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of West Garfield has the 2nd highest violent crime rate in Chicago, and
has an unemployment rate of 25.2%, with 40.3% of households living below the poverty level; and,
WHEREAS, the Chicago neighborhood of North Lawndale has the 3rd highest violent crime rate in Chicago and
has an unemployment rate of 18.5%, with 38.6% of households living below the poverty level; and,
WHEREAS, Cook County, in its administration of the Justice Advisory Council Violence Prevention Grant
Program has directly undertaken an effort to address the issue of neighborhood violence that has decimated poor
communities of color in Chicago and Cook County; and,
WHEREAS, the fundamental objective of the Justice Advisory Council Violence Prevention Grant Program is
to help prevent violence; and,
WHEREAS, the cornerstone of a program designed to help prevent violence is to drive resources to the areas
where the highest levels of violence exist;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does hereby request
that the Justice Advisory Council and the Department of Procurement report to the Cook County Board of
Commissioners on the specific scoring criteria for its violence prevention grant awards; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Justice Advisory Council and the Department of Procurement
specifically address in the aforementioned report the role played by community violence levels in determining
violence prevention grant recipients.
Legislative History: 7/29/15 Board of Commissioners referred to the Criminal Justice Committee

______________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Garcia
Moore
Committee of the Whole

Page 6 of 6

 