Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, February 8, 2017

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to
speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result
in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
17-1645
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 10/5/2016
16-5674
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook County Board of

PROPOSED ORDINANCE
COOK COUNTY WORKFORCE RESOURCE ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article XIV. Cook County Workforce Resource, Sec. 2-1030 through Sec. 2- 1039 of the Cook County
Code is hereby enacted as follows:

Page 1 of 6

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 8, 2017

Sec. 2-1030. Short Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Cook County Workforce Resource
Ordinance.
Sec. 2-1031. Purpose.
(a) The Cook County Real Property Assessment Classification Ordinance provides property
tax incentives to encourage industrial and commercial development of new facilities, the
rehabilitation of existing structures and the reutilization of abandoned buildings. The goal is to
attract new industry, stimulate expansion and retention of existing industry and increase
employment opportunities. This Cook County Workforce Resource Ordinance is intended to
facilitate the recruitment, training and placement of Cook County residents to fill position
vacancies that are created as a result of such industrial and commercial development,
rehabilitation or expansion.
(b) The Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership (“The Partnership”) is a non-profit
administrative agency which administers the County’s Workforce Innovation and Opportunity
Act programs as well as federal subsidies that benefit employers and enable successful
recruitment, training, placement and retention of current and prospective employees. Under this
Workforce Resource Ordinance, recipients of County Tax Incentives, as defined below, shall use
The Partnership as a resource to identify, recruit, train and/or hire Cook County residents to fill
position vacancies.
Sec. 2-1032. Definitions.
For the purposes of this Article the term:

Beneficiary means the applicant for any County Tax Incentives, the recipient of any County
Tax Incentives or a tenant or lessee of a recipient of any County Tax Incentives that employs
twenty (20) or more total individuals at the site at which the County Tax Incentives will be
received.
County Tax Incentives means any Cook County property tax incentives reviewed by the
Cook County Bureau of Economic Development for Classes 6b, 6b TEERM, 6b SER, and 7a
that are defined as special circumstances in Chapter 74 TAXATION, ARTICLE II REAL
PROPERTY TAXATION, DIVISION 2 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM FOR ASSESSMENT
and all applications for property tax incentives for Classes 7b and 7c.

Page 2 of 6

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 8, 2017

Employer means a Beneficiary with position vacancies or job openings at the site at which
property tax incentives will be received.
Government-assisted project means any project funded in whole or in part with County Tax
Incentives.
Long Term jobs means those positions expected to last 180 days or more.
Temporary jobs means those positions expected to last less than 180 days.
Sufficient lead time means at least seven (7) business days from the opening of the job
application, except in emergency situations.
Workforce Resource Agreement means an agreement executed by The Partnership and the
Employer in the form and manner as attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A. Any modifications
to the terms and conditions of such agreement are subject to the approval of the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development.
Workforce Resource Database means a database maintained by The Partnership consisting of
unemployed or underemployed Cook County residents that have relevant skills, knowledge,
abilities or qualifications to merit consideration for Long Term Job vacancies.
Youth means “in school youth” and “out of school youth” as defined in the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act (“WIOA”), Pub.L. 113-128,.
Sec. 2-1033. Limitations.
This Workforce Resource Ordinance shall not apply to positions filled by internal transfers,
promotions or recall of laid off employees on recall status from the Employer.
Sec. 2-1034. Workforce Resource Agreement with The Partnership:
(a) Except for the limitations set forth in Section 2-1033 above, The Partnership shall serve
as the first resource for finding employees to fill position vacancies created by the
government-assisted project. The Partnership’s candidate pool will be comprised of County
residents sourced from The Partnership’s network of workforce development agencies,
individuals identified through employer-specific hiring events, and existing and/or future
databases of prospective employees (whether said databases be maintained locally or by the State
of Illinois).

Page 3 of 6

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 8, 2017

(b) The Partnership will leverage its County-wide network of workforce development
agencies for the purpose of sourcing unemployed or underemployed County residents who meet
the desired qualifications identified by the Employer as set forth in the Workforce Resource
Agreement.
(c) In accordance with federal law, and state and local policy, The Partnership may also offer
the Employer additional resources for the recruitment, training and retention of new hires,
including access to federal subsidies where appropriate.
(d) After sufficient lead time, as defined herein, or as mutually agreed upon by the Employer
and The Partnership, as specified in the Workforce Resource Agreement, the Employer shall be
free to seek other sources to fill position vacancies.
Section 2-1035. Data Collection and Reporting
(a) The Partnership shall compile and maintain a Workforce Resource Database of available
candidates for employment from the County’s public workforce system that includes Youth
participants in WIOA or other Youth programs as permitted by law.
(b) The Partnership will leverage its delegate agencies located throughout Cook County for
the purpose of sourcing unemployed or underemployed County residents who have the skills
qualifications to merit consideration by Employer.
(c) The Partnership will offer additional employment resources to the Employer for the
recruitment and training of new hires and incumbent employees.
Sec. 2-1036. Workforce Resource Agreement.
(a) Every Employer shall be required to enter into a Workforce Resource Agreement with
The Partnership as a condition of its receipt of County Tax Incentives.
(b) After sufficient lead time, as defined herein, or as mutually agreed upon by an Employer
and The Partnership, as specified in the Workforce Resource Agreement, the Employer shall be
free to fill remaining Long Term job vacancies by hiring individuals without The Partnership’s
assistance.
(c) Notwithstanding the above, an Employer may utilize The Partnership’s services to fill
Temporary job vacancies.

Page 4 of 6

 Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

February 8, 2017

Sec. 2-1037. Reports.
The Partnership shall submit a bi-annual report to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
and the Bureau of Economic Development detailing the employment outcomes attained on
behalf of the Employer; however, if no Workforce Resource Agreements have been executed, no
report shall be submitted. The report shall include the name of the Employer, including but not
limited to:
(a) The number of government-assisted projects for which Workforce Resource Agreements
were executed;
(b) The number and nature of Long Term Job vacancies covered by the Workforce Resource
Agreement, including, but not limited to, total full time, part time, seasonal, and/or temporary
positions.
(c) Average wages of new hires;
(d) Total new hires and wages earned;
(e) The number of youth hired and/or trained in connection with Workforce Resource
Agreements; and
(f) The nature and amount of any federal resource utilized to support the hiring, training
and/or retention of individuals in accordance with the Workforce Resource Agreement.
Sec. 2-1038. Transfers and Assignments.
In the event of a transfer or assignment by an Employer of all or a portion of its business to a
third party in connection with a sale, assignment, lease or otherwise, during the term of the
Agreement, such Employer shall notify The Partnership of the effective date of the transfer of its
business and the identity of the transferee.
This Ordinance and any executed Workforce
Resource Agreements are fully binding upon any transferee or successor to such Employer’s
business.
Sec. 2-1039. Enforceability and Penalties.
In those instances of an Employer’s failure to comply with the terms of the Workforce
Resource Agreement, The Partnership will notify such Employer specifying areas of

Page 5 of 6

 NOTICE AND AGENDA

Workforce, Housing &
Community Development
Committee

February 8, 2017

noncompliance and provide a period of sixty (60) days in which the Employer may refute or
remedy such noncompliance. Failure to refute or remedy said noncompliance may result in a
recommendation to the appropriate municipality or, if the property is located in unincorporated
Cook County, the Bureau of Economic Development, for withdrawal of County Tax Incentives
and denial of future opportunities for said Employer to obtain and utilize County Tax Incentives
unless and until such noncompliance has been remedied or successfully refuted.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History :

10/5/16 -

Board of Commissioners

-

refer to the Workforce, Housing & Commun

Secretary
Chairman:
Gainer
Vice-Chairman: Boykin
Members:
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 6 of 6

 