Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Veterans Committee
Tuesday, September 13, 2016

11:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room,
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of
Cook County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in
writing, their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in
advance of the meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a
time specified in the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the
specified time for public testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public
testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not
exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public
testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not
use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act
appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time
requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing
future testimony.
16-5225
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/2/2016
16-4655
Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), JOHN P. DALEY,
STANLEY MOORE, LUIS ARROYO JR, ROBERT STEELE, LARRY SUFFREDIN, RICHARD R.
BOYKIN, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY, TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and JESÚS G. GARCÍA, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
AMENDMENT TO VETERAN’S PREFERENCE AND OUTREACH
Page 1 of 4

 BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 34 Finance Section 236
through Section 34-238 of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as Follows:
Sec. 34-236. - Eligible veterans' preference established.
(a) Veterans' Workplace Preference. The CPO shall give a preference of one percent of the amount of the
Contract to a Responsible and Responsive Contractor for a Public Works Contract when such
Contractor has committed by affidavit to utilize Eligible Veterans for at least five percent of the hours
worked under such Contract. Failure to utilize Eligible Veterans in accordance with the affidavit will
result in breach of contract, in addition to any available sanctions or actions the CCD may, within its
discretion, recommend that the CPO take with respect to the contractor or subcontractor as specified
in Section 34-275.
(b) Veteran-owned Business and Service Disabled Veteran-owned Business preference. The CPO shall
give a preference of five percent of the amount of the Contract to a Responsible and Responsive VBE
or SDVBE. The CPO shall develop procedures for implementation of this Section.
Sec. 34-237. - Veteran-owned businesses.
(a) It is the goal of the County to award each year not less than three percent of its total expenditures for
supplies, equipment, goods, and services to VBEs and SDVBEs. The CCD may count toward its three
percent yearly goal that portion of all Contracts in which the Contractor subcontracts with a VBE or
SDVBE. Each year, The CCD shall submit an annual report to the County Board that shall include, at
a minimum, the following for the preceding fiscal year: on all of the following for the immediately
preceding 12-month period:
(1) The number of responsible VBEs and SDVBEs that submitted a Bid or proposal;
(2) The number of VBEs and SDVBEs that entered into Contracts, the specific industry or category
of goods, services, or supplies for each Contract, and the total value of those Contracts;.
(3)

The participation of VBEs and SDVBE’s at both contractor and subcontractor levels;

(4) The total number of the County’s certified VBEs and SDVBEs available for participation in
procurement, by category or industry;
(5)

Whether the County achieved the goal described in this subsection.

(b) Each year, the CCD shall review the three percent goal with input from the Cook County Chairman of
Veterans Affairs, the Cook County Director of Veterans Affairs, countywide veterans' service
organizations, and from the business community including VBEs and SDVBEs, and shall make
recommendations to the County Board regarding continuation, increases, or decreases in the
percentage goal. The recommendations shall be based upon the number of VBEs and SDVBEs and on
the continued need to encourage and promote businesses owned by qualified veterans.
(c) The CPO will make best efforts to recruit and solicit bids and make procurements from VBEs and
SDVBEs.
Page 2 of 4

 (d) The above-stated goal shall not be treated as a quota nor shall it be used to discriminate against any
person or business enterprise on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex.
(e) The CCD, in consultation with the Using Agency and the CPO, shall consider the size and complexity
of the procurement before establishing contract specific goals and shall only be required to establish
contract specific goals on procurements that have an available pool of certified VBEs and SDVBEs
for supplies, materials and equipment, or services. establish contract specific goals for each contract.
In establishing a contract specific goal, the CCD shall consider the availability of sufficient certified
VBEs and SDVBEs for supplies, materials and equipment, or services required as part of the
procurement.
(f) The provisions of this Division 6, Section 34-237(a) shall be effective as of July 1, 2013. The Contract
Compliance Director shall as soon as practicable develop and implement procedures and any
corresponding regulations for certifying and monitoring utilization of VBEs and SDVBEs.
Sec. 34-238. - VBE/SDVBE Certification and Outreach.
(a) The CCD shall certify a Person as a VBE when it is a small business:
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more Eligible Veterans; and
(2) That has its home office in Illinois.
(b) The CCD shall certify Person as a SDVBE when it is a small business:
(1) That is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and managed by one or more qualified servicedisabled veterans; and
(2) That has its home office in Illinois.
(c) In lieu of conducting its own certifications, the CCD by rule may accept formal certifications by other
entities, provided that Cook County's requirements are met.
(d)

In order to increase awareness and provide opportunities for VBEs and SDVBEs, the CCD shall
provide education, outreach, and the dissemination of information to VBEs and SDVBEs regarding
the County’s certification program and available opportunities. The CCD, in collaboration with other
departments, shall from time to time, by way of seminars, workshops, and internet-based
communications, make available to the business community such information, documents, and
personnel as well as:
(1) Assist otherwise eligible businesses in applying for, gaining, and maintaining certification;
(2) Assist the business community in understanding the manner in which to properly complete a
Utilization Plan including how a full or partial waiver may be requested, and the manner in which such
a request may be supported;

Page 3 of 4

 (3) Identify best practices by other governmental entities and private sector firms that may improve
the Program; and
(4) Identify systemic or organizational problems and related solutions associated with certification and
contract participation.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

_________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Tobolski
Vice Chairman: Moore
Members:
Arroyo, Boykin, Daley, Murphy, Schneider, Steele, Suffredin

Page 4 of 4

 