STATE OF ILLINOIS
ILLINOIS LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
STATE PANEL
Minutes of the State Panel Meeting
Held on February 11, 2014
I.

OPENING OF MEETING 1:00 P.M.—One Natural Resources Way, Illinois River Room, Springfield,
Illinois

II.

PRESENT

John Hartnett, Chairman of the Board; Paul Besson, Member of the Board; James Brennwald, Member of Board; Michael
Coli, Member of the Board; Albert Washington, Member of the Board; Melissa Mlynski, Executive Director; Sarah
Kerley, Deputy General Counsel; and staff members.
III.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING HELD January 16, 2014

Chairman Hartnett called for approval of the minutes of the January 16, 2014 meeting. Member Besson moved to approve
the minutes. Member Washington seconded. The Board passed the motion unanimously, by a voice vote.
IV.

ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

Chairman Hartnett asked Executive Director Mlynski to present the State Panel administrative actions report for the
period of time from January 1 through January 31, 2013. She presented the report and summarized its highlights. The
Board examined the report and discussed it. Executive Director Mlynski then presented the fiscal, legislative and
mediation reports to the Board.
V.

BOARD ACTIONS
1.
Case No. S-UC-13-044
Illinois Office of the Comptroller/International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 965

Chairman Hartnett moved to hear the oral argument scheduled in Case No. S-UC-13-044, Illinois Office of the
Comptroller and International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 965. Prior to the oral argument, Deputy General
Counsel Kerley made an introductory presentation to the Board about the issues of the case. She then stated to the parties
the parameters of segments for their presentations. The parties to the case presented oral argument to the Board. At the
conclusion of the oral argument, and after a short discussion, Member Coli made a motion to leave open session. Member
Washington seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Member Coli made a motion to
go into executive session to discuss the evidence presented in the oral argument case on the agenda, pursuant to Section
2(c)(4) of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120 (2012). Member Besson seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Subsequently, at the end of the discussion, Chairman Hartnett made a motion to
leave executive session. Member Coli seconded the motion, and the Board passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Member Coli then made a motion to return to open session. Member Washington seconded the motion, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote. Chairman Hartnett moved to hold this case until the March 11th meeting so as to
further consider and discuss the earlier presented oral argument. The Board agreed.
2.
Case No. S-CA-11-119
Antwaun Parnell/County of Kankakee and Sheriff of Kankakee County
Chairman Hartnett asked Deputy General Counsel Kerley to call the case. Deputy General Counsel Kerley noted that no
party filed exceptions to ALJ Kazanjian’s RDO and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own
motion. The Board declined to do so.

 3.
Case No. S-RC-11-118
Peoria School District #150/Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Council
Chairman Hartnett asked Deputy General Counsel Kerley to call the case. Deputy General Counsel Kerley noted that no
party filed exceptions to ALJ Tarver’s RDO and asked whether the Board wished to review the decision on its own
motion. The Board declined to do so.
4.
Case No. S-DE-14-152
Illinois Department of Central Management Services (Illinois Commerce Commission)/American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31
Chairman Hartnett asked Deputy General Counsel Kerley to call the case. Deputy General Counsel Kerley stated that on
January 28, 2014, ALJ Sidwell issued an RDO finding that designations made on behalf of Department of Central
Management Services were properly made and timely exceptions were filed by the Union. Then Deputy General Counsel
Kerley asked Associate General Counsel Anna Hamburg-Gal to present and discuss the issues of the case. After her
presentation, Associate General Counsel Hamburg-Gal provided the Board with three alternative recommendations. After
detailed discussion, Member Besson moved to accept the RDO with modifications. Member Coli seconded the motion,
and the Board passed it with Member Brennwald dissenting.
VI.

OTHER BOARD MATTERS

After a short discussion regarding whether there was a need for executive session, the Board concluded that it was
unnecessary.
VII.

ADJOURNMENT

Chairman Hartnett called for a motion to adjourn. Member Besson made a motion to adjourn the meeting, and the Board
passed it unanimously, by a voice vote.
Adopted and approved by the Chairman and Members of the State Panel of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, in
________, Illinois, this 28th day of February, 2014.

2

 