Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Tuesday, April 16, 2019 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950 W. Polk Street, in
Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Richardson-Lowry called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and
Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (3)

Absent:

Directors Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH and Sidney A. Thomas, MSW (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Beena Peters, DNP, MS, RN, FACHE – Chief
Nursing Officer
Barbara Pryor –Chief Human Resources Officer

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Wayne Wright – Director of Organizational
Development and Training

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Tuesday, June 18, 2019 at 9:00 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Chair Richardson-Lowry asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of February 19, 2019
Board Chair Hammock, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of February 19, 2019. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections III and VI
IV.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #1)
Barbara Pryor, Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the following
subjects:
•
•

2018 Employee Engagement Survey Overview
Metrics:
- HR Performance Data
- HR Activity Report through 3/31/19
- Separations by Classification through 3/31/19

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, April 16, 2019
Page 2

IV.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (continued)
- Open Vacancies
- Hiring Snapshot through 3/31/19
- Appendix – Nursing and Finance Hiring Snapshot through 3/31/19
With regard to the Employee Engagement Survey, Board Chair Hammock suggested that the administration set
some quarterly milestones for its action plan, and report back to the Committee at appropriate intervals.

V. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Nursing (Attachment #2)
Beena Peters, DNP, MS, RN, FACHE, provided an overview of the presentation on Nursing, which included
information on the following subjects:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Nursing Mission Statement
Nursing Organizational Chart
Overview of Department
Workforce Data
Impact 2020 Recap – Status and Results
National Database for Nurse Quality Indicators – Nursing Sensitive Clinical Indicators
Intensive Care Data
Patient Satisfaction 2018
Nurse and Nurse Leaders Excellence Results – Employee Engagement
FY2020-2022 – Environmental Scan of Market, Best Practices and Trends
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
FY2020-2022 Objectives and Highlighted Tactics
Measures and Metrics
Timeline

During the review of slide 14 of the presentation, regarding the nursing-sensitive clinical quality indicator relating
to physical restraints, Chair Richardson-Lowry inquired whether the organization’s higher rate of the use of
restraints has anything to do with CCH’s population, culture, or some other attribute. Dr. Peters responded that
this needs to be studied further; she will look into the question and provide a response to the Committee.
During the review of Threats under the SWOT Analysis, the Committee discussed the subject of possible
opportunities to engage and partner with local universities. Chair Richardson-Lowry suggested that the
administration reach out to leadership at the Chicago Public Schools to collaborate on potential opportunities that
would generate more interest by younger students to pursue a career in nursing.
During the discussion of slide 25 of the presentation, Chair Richardson-Lowry requested that “language barriers”
be included as a bullet under the category of Weaknesses in the SWOT Analysis.
During the review of slide 27 of the presentation, Chair Richardson-Lowry inquired whether the nursing metrics
will be reported quarterly. Dr. Peters responded affirmatively. Director Driscoll stated that she believes that
nursing needs a quality structure, but also believes that it needs to be integrated into the overall hospital quality
structure; perhaps dual reporting to the hospital quality structure and to nursing quality would be appropriate.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, April 16, 2019
Page 3

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Richardson-Lowry declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/Follow-up:
Follow-up:

Regarding the Employee Engagement Survey, a suggestion was made for the administration to set
some quarterly milestones for its action plan and report back to the Committee on those milestones
at appropriate intervals. Page 2

Follow-up:

Regarding the nursing-sensitive clinical quality indicator relating to physical restraints, a request for
information was made regarding the reasons or factors contributing to the organization’s higher rate
of the use of restraints. Page 2

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made for the administration to reach out to leadership at the Chicago Public
Schools, to collaborate on potential opportunities that would generate more interest by younger
students to pursue a career in nursing. Page 2

Request:

A request was made to include “language barriers” as a bullet under the category of Weaknesses in
the SWOT Analysis. Page 2

 