Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee

Wednesday, March 2, 2016

9:00 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an
item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-1902
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 1/13/2016

 16-1053
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER RECOVERY (CDBG-DR)
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): BEDS Plus Care, Inc., LaGrange, Illinois
Request: CDBG - DR Program Project Loan
Total Development Cost: $5,791,750.00
Project Loan Amount: $1,300,000.00
Fiscal Impact: None
Account(s): 910-1401
Summary: The Bureau of Economic Development respectfully submits the attached CDBG - DR Program project
loan recommendation in the amount of $1,300,000.00 to a to-be-formed Partnership solely owned by BEDS Plus
Care, Inc. This project loan will be utilized to support CDBG - DR eligible project costs incurred during the new
construction of twenty (20) units of permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals. All 20
units will be CDBG - DR-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is $5,791,750.00. The requested
CDBG - DR funds account for twenty two (22) percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources include IHDA
Trust Fund, Federal Home Loan Bank’s Affordable Housing Program, Illinois Donations Tax Credits, Lyon’s
Township Mental Health and Owner’s Equity.
The requested CDBG - DR funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms:
A 0%, 30-year loan, payable at $1,200 per year, principal accrual until sale, refinance, or end of the loan term. The
loan will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A twenty (20) year affordability period
will also apply.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or his/her
designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the
project approved herein, including, but not limited to, funding agreements, intergovernmental agreements,
amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to
issue necessary commitments to allow this project to move forward.
Legislative History : 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

Page 2 of 5

 16-1056
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT - DISASTER RECOVERY
(CDBG-DR)
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Hines Veterans Residences Limited Partnership, Hines, Illinois
Request: CDBG -DR Investment Partnerships Program Project Loan
Total Development Cost: $17,361,259.00
Project Loan Amount: $2,000,000.00
Fiscal Impact: None
Account(s): 910-1401 Account
Summary: The Department of Planning and Development within the Bureau of Economic Development
respectfully submits the attached CDBG -DR Investment Partnerships Program (CDBG -DR) project loan
recommendation in the amount of $2,000,000.00 to the Hines Veterans Residences Limited Partnership.
This project loan will be utilized to support CDBG -DR-eligible project costs incurred during the new
construction of a fifty-two (52) unit multi-family rental housing project in Hines, Illinois. All units will be
CDBG -DR-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is $17,361,259.00. The requested CDBG -DR funds
account for eleven and a half (11.5) percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources include a private mortgage and
Illinois Housing Development Authority (IHDA) Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC).
The requested CDBG -DR funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms:
A .5% interest only loan with a 30-year loan term as well as a 20-year affordability period. The loan will be due on
sale or transferrable with Cook County permission.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or his/her
designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the
project approved herein, including, but not limited to, funding agreements, intergovernmental agreements,
amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to
issue necessary commitments to allow this project to move forward.
Legislative History : 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

Page 3 of 5

 16-1058
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED PROPOSED
RECOVERY (CDBG-DR)

COMMUNITY

DEVELOPMENT

BLOCK

GRANT

-

DISASTER

Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Ford Heights Cooperative, Inc., Ford Heights, Illinois
Request: CDBG -DR Project Loan
Total Development Cost: $3,200,000.00
Project Loan Amount: $3,200,000.00
Fiscal Impact: None
Account(s): 910-1401
Summary: Transmitted herewith is a request for approval of a Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG - DR) loan in the amount of $3,200,000.00 to Ford Heights Cooperative, Inc. This
project loan will be utilized to support CDBG -DR-eligible project costs incurred during the renovation - flood
mitigation of a one hundred (100) unit single-family rental cooperative housing project in Ford Heights. All units
will be CDBG -DR-assisted and the project is classified as cooperative housing. Six (6) of the units will be
demolished, due to the fact they are no longer habitable, the remaining ninety four (94) will receive various
amounts of repair and flood mitigation work and then a rain garden will be added to the property to further mitigate
flooding.
The requested CDBG -DR funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms:
A 0% interest loan with a 15 year loan term as well as a 15 year affordability period. The loan will be due on sale
or transferrable with Cook County permission.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or his/her
designee be authorized to execute, or behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the
project approved herein, including, but not limited to, funding agreements, intergovernmental agreements,
amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to
issue necessary commitments to allow this project to move forward.
Legislative History : 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

Page 4 of 5

 16-1059
Presented by: SUSAN CAMPBELL, Director, Department of Planning and Development
PROPOSED HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Related Affordable, Chicago, Illinois
Request: HOME Investment Partnerships Program Project Loan Approval
Total Development Cost: $21,067,916.00
Project Loan Amount: $2,500,000.00
Fiscal Impact: None
Account(s): 772-1501
Summary: The Bureau of Economic Development respectfully submits the attached HOME Investment
Partnerships Program (HOME) project loan recommendation in the amount of $2,500,000.00 to Related
Affordable, Inc. This project loan will be utilized to support HOME-eligible project costs incurred during the
rehabilitation of a one hundred forty five (145) unit multi-family rental housing project in Park Forest, IL. All one
hundred and forty-five (145) units will be HOME-assisted. The total development cost (TDC) is $21,067,916.00.
The requested HOME funds account for seventeen (17) percent of the TDC. Additional funding sources include
IHDA Housing Trust Fund, tax exempt bonds.
The requested HOME funds would subsidize the project via a permanent loan based upon the following terms: A
.25%, 30-year loan, payable at $25,000.00 per year amortizing over 50 years. The loan will be due on sale, refinance,
or end of the loan term. The loan will be due on sale or transferrable with Cook County permission. A fifteen (15)
year affordability period will also apply.
I respectfully request approval of this project, and that the Bureau Chief of Economic Development or his/her
designee be authorized to execute, on behalf of the County of Cook, any and all documents necessary to further the
project approved herein, including, but not limited to, funding agreements, intergovernmental agreements,
amendments, and modifications thereto. The approval of this project by the Honorable Body will permit staff to
issue necessary commitments to allow this project to move forward.
Legislative History : 2/10/16 Board of Commissioners referred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

______________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Gainer
Boykin
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 5 of 5

 