2009-2013
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN

Keeping Chicago’s neighborhoods affordable.

2011 Second Quarter Progress Report
April-June
City of Chicago
Rahm Emanuel
Mayor

 Letter From The Commissioner
We are pleased to submit the 2011 Second Quarter Progress Report, which presents the Department
of Housing and Economic Development’s progress on the goals set forth in the City’s fourth
Affordable Housing Plan for the years 2009-2013.
Through the second quarter of 2011 the Department has committed over $160 million to support
nearly 5,000 units of affordable housing. This represents approximately 37% of our annual resource
allocation goal and 60% of our units assisted goal.
In the second quarter, the Department approved financing for three multifamily developments
and held a Housing Resource Fair for prospective homebuyers and current homeowners seeking
information on the wide range of resources available to them.
Despite ongoing challenges in the housing and lending markets, the Department continues to
successfully work toward achieving our annual goals under our three main program priorities: Create
and Preserve Affordable Rental, Promote and Support of Homeownership, and Improve and Preserve
Homes.
As always, we would like to thank all our partners for their continued support and cooperation.
Working with them, we will continue to progress in our goals to create and preserve affordable
housing for the people of Chicago.

Andrew J. Mooney     
Commissioner 

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

Quarter ending March 2011

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction 
PAGE 
 
Creation and Preservation of Affordable Rental Units   3  
Multi-Family Rehab and New Construction
 
3
Updates on Previously Reported Developments
 
6
   

Promotion and Support of Homeownership

 

7

Improvement and Preservation of Homes

 

8 

Policy and Legislative Affairs

 

9 

Appendices
1.  Estimates of Production
2.  Commitments and Production Comparison to Plan
3.  Units Accessing Multiple Benefits
4.  Summary of Multifamily Developments
  • New Moms
  • Park Boulevard Phase IIA
  • Goldblatts Senior Living
5.  Loan Closings Report
6.  Multifamily Loan Commitments
7.  Multifamily MAUI Commitments  
8.  Multifamily TIF Commitments
9.  Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Commitments
10. Multifamily Mortgage Revenue Bond
Commitments

 

11. Chicago Low-Income Housing Trust Fund  
Commitments
12. Troubled Buildings Initiative (Multi-family)
13. TIF Neighborhood Improvement Program  
(Single-family)
14. Historic Chicago Bungalow Initiative
15. Neighborhood Lending Program
16. Neighborhood Stabilization Program
17. Density Bonus Commitments
18. CHA Plan for Transformation Commitments

REFERENCE

1. Chicago Metropolitan Area Median Incomes
2. City of Chicago Maximum Affordable Monthly Rents

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

Quarter ending March 2011

 Introduction

T

his document is the 2011 Second Quarter Progress
Report on the Chicago Department of Housing and

Economic Development’s fourth Affordable Housing Plan,
2009-2013.

For 2011, HED projected commitments of over $437 million
to support 8,051 units of housing.

Through the second quarter of 2011, the Department has
committed over $160 million to assist nearly 5,000 units,
representing almost 60% of the 2011 unit goal and 37% of the
resource allocation goal.

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

1

Quarter ending March 2011

 CREATION AND PRESERVATION
OF AFFORDABLE RENTAL UNITS
Multifamily Rehab and New Construction
New Moms Inc.
In May, City Council authorized $4.1 million in loans, fee waivers, and the transfer of
$276,000 in donations tax credits for the construction of a residential home for teenage
mothers and their children in the Austin community.
The four-story building, to be built on the site of the former 15th District Police Station at
5327 W. Chicago Ave., will provide 40 units of permanent supportive housing for teenage
mothers who are at risk of homelessness. The $12 million complex will also include a day
care facility, meeting rooms, administrative offices and training space. A number of “green”
elements will be incorporated into the building’s design, including an Energy Star-rated roof,
permeable pavers and a high-efficiency HVAC system.
The project is expected to generate 12 new jobs and retain 31 current positions. New Moms
will offer teenage mothers parenting classes, job training and educational opportunities that
they will need to become independent, self-supporting women.
Since 1983, the grass roots organization has provided housing and support services to over
1,000 teenage mothers and their children.

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

3

Quarter ending March 2011

 Park Boulevard Phase IIA
The City Council approved an ordinance authorizing $15.3 million in loans, up to $26 million
in bonds and fee waivers for the construction of Park Boulevard Phase IIA in the City’s Douglas
community. The planned $41.9 million development will provide 128 units of rental housing in four
buildings located in the 3600 block of South State St. and West 36th St. (the former site of CHA’s
Stateway Gardens), and is part of the CHA’s Plan for Transformation.
The Park Boulevard mixed-income community is on the south side of Chicago, marked by Chicago
institutions and amenities such as the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT), U.S. Cellular Field and
Chicago Police Headquarters, all within a block of three rail transit stations and less than a ten-minute
ride to the Loop. The existing Park Boulevard Phase I contains 11,000 square feet of retail, which
includes Starbucks, FedEx/Kinkos, National City Bank and other local retailers.
A central feature of the Park Boulevard site plan is the proposed reconfiguration of the existing Stateway
Park, which is currently in the planning stage. However, the existing and proposed playgrounds in
Stateway Park, an additional existing playground on-site, and the Phase I center park (half an acre)
with two “pocket” parks provide numerous green spaces for recreation and activity.
The developer, Stateway Associates, LLC, plans to construct four mixed-income buildings with a
blend of one to three bedroom apartments. The buildings will offer 29 market-rate, 53 affordable and
46 replacement units for former CHA residents. The building sizes will range from six- to 80-unit
structures.
Additional funding for the project will come from the CHA and tax credits.

SOS Children’s Village
In June, the City Council authorized the sale of seven acres of City-owned land for $1 to Laramie
Holdings, LLC. The site, in the Austin community, will be the future home of an SOS Children’s
Village, which will provide long-term, family-based care and education for children and young adults.
Each of the 24 buildings will be operated by SOS Children’s Village Illinois, bringing youth together
in permanent homes headed by professional foster parents. The developer will construct a family
home, 12 safe homes and 11 for-sale two-flat buildings for moderate-income families on the site in
the 37th Ward.

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

4

Quarter ending March 2011

 Goldblatts Senior Living
In June, the City Council approved an Ordinance authorizing up to $18 million in bonds, $1
million in loans and $2.9 million in TIF funds for the rehabilitation of a former Goldblatt’s
department store into a 101-unit supportive living facility for seniors in the New City
community.
The developer, Goldblatt’s of Chicago LP, plans to convert the upper floors of the building
at the southwest corner of West 47th St. and South Ashland Ave. into 27 one-bedroom and
74 studio units with kitchenettes for low-income seniors. Three units will have no income
restrictions.
Other amenities in the 20th Ward development will include a dining room, commercial
kitchen and common area space for tenant activities. An adjacent parcel will also be
developed for parking.
The ordinance also amends the land use designation in the TIF plan from commercial to
residential use.

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

5

Quarter ending March 2011

 Updates on Previously Reported Developments
Grand Opening of the Dr. King Legacy Apartments

On April 4, 2011-- the 43rd anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King’s assassination-Commissioner Andrew J. Mooney joined North Lawndale community leaders and residents
for a ribbon-cutting ceremony dedicating the Dr. King Legacy Apartments, 45 units of
affordable housing located at 1550 S. Hamlin Av., where the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther
King lived in 1966 while Chicago was his base of operations.
“This new development both demonstrates the City’s strong commitment to providing
affordable and supportive housing for our residents who need it and honors the memory and
legacy of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King,” Mooney said.
The City was a partner in the development with the Lawndale Christian Development
Corporation through $6.5 million in loans and tax credits.
The Dr. King Legacy Apartments include 45 affordable, energy-efficient rental units. Ten of
the units will be set aside for Chicago Housing Authority voucher holders. The development
also includes commercial space on the ground floor, open green space and a number of
sustainable features, including a partial green roof and the use of recycled materials in
construction.
The apartments are located within the new 4-acre Martin Luther King Historic District,
which is part of a larger effort to bring affordable housing and commercial development to
North Lawndale. Ultimately, the district will include a new campus park, a new library, a job
training center and the Martin Luther King Fair Housing Museum.
“It is developments like these that help our neighborhoods grow stronger, and demonstrate
how working together we can collectively provide affordable housing and economic
opportunities citywide,” Mooney said.
Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

6

Quarter ending March 2011

 PROMOTION AND SUPPORT OF
HOMEOWNERSHIP
The Department of Housing and Economic Development (HED) partnered with Ald. Ray
Suarez (31st) to host a Housing Resource Fair on Saturday, April 30, 2011.
The free event was held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Falconer School, 3020 N. Lamon Ave.,
and featured representatives from a variety of housing-focused and local government agencies
that offer information and resources about housing.
“This collaborative effort will bring information on affordable housing opportunities to the
attention of residents in the area,” HED Commissioner Andrew J. Mooney said. “We want
to provide a convenient opportunity to share information on the wide-range of housing
options and resources that are available citywide – from senior housing opportunities to bestpractices for landlords.”
The event was a one-stop shop where people with housing needs could get information about
available resources and attend workshops on landlord training, weatherization and other
topics.
The intent of the fair was to acquaint people with a broad array of programs and services
including information on landlord/tenant rights and responsibilities, senior housing,
foreclosure prevention, weatherization and energy efficiency and more.
Homeowners who have fallen behind on their mortgage payments and are at risk of
foreclosure also had the opportunity to meet with housing counselors to discuss mortgage
payment options.
Additionally, homeowners could access home improvement resources, and representatives
from the City’s Tax Assistance Center were on hand to offer assistance on property tax
issues.
“It is vital that we work with our community partners to help educate residents on housing
issues and to help provide affordable housing options,” said Suarez, Chairman of the City
Council’s Housing and Real Estate Committee. “By bringing together affordable housing
providers and other agencies in one location, we can provide answers and direction for
residents about whatever their housing needs may be.”

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

7

Quarter ending March 2011

 IMPROVEMENT AND
PRESERVATION OF HOMES
Preserving Communities Together
In April, the City Council approved ordinances authorizing the transfer of three vacant buildings in
the West Garfield Park, West Pullman and Auburn-Gresham communities to approved developers
under the Preserving Communities Together (PCT) program, an initiative designed to reclaim
abandoned property.
Franklin Williams Enterprises, Inc. will rehabilitate the two-story building at 212 N. Kostner Ave.
in the 28th Ward. The two-unit building at 1422 N. Leamington Ave. in the 37th Ward and the
single-family home at 8730 S. Morgan Ave, in the 21st Ward will be conveyed to Property Holdings,
LLC for renovation.
The developers will pay all costs incurred by the City in holding the properties prior to conveyance.
Once renovation is completed, the buildings will be sold at affordable prices to qualified buyers.
PCT enables interested applicants to identify vacant and abandoned properties for acquisition by the
City, so that they can be turned into quality affordable housing owned and occupied by responsible
private owners.

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

8

Quarter ending March 2011

 POLICY AND LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS
Legislation to Protect Renters Impacted by Condominium
Conversions
On May 4 the City Council approved an ordinance to protect and inform existing rental tenants
impacted by condo conversions and provide more transparency about physical building conditions to
purchasers of new or converted condos. The legislation is the outcome of the Mayor’s Condo Task
Force, which was established in 2007 and charged with developing recommendations for a comprehensive condominium conversion policy.
The ordinance accomplishes the following:
 

• Establishes a Condominium Registration Program for new and converted condos.

 
 

• Protects existing rental tenants during condo conversions by increasing the required
tenant notice period and lease extensions and requiring relocation assistance to be
provided to existing tenants.

 
 
 
 

• Strengthens disclosure requirements for new and converted condos by establishing and    
requiring a standardized, easy-to-understand Disclosure Summary containing details
about the property for consumers.

The Department of Housing and Economic Development will administer the ordinance, with
enforcement to be handled by the Department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection.

Affordable Housing Plan 2009–2013

9

Quarter ending March 2011

  

APPENDICES

 

Affordable Housing Plan 2009?2013 11 Quarter ending March 2011

   

 

 

 

