REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
June 24, 2003
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Gorman, Hansen,
Maldonado, Murphy and Quigley (7)

Absent:

None (0)

Also
Present:

Ronald Coverson - Department of Planning

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Business and Economic Development of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, June 24, 2003 at the hour of 10:00 AM in
the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

259878

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated May 20, 2003:
Re:

Tamberlin Henry/396 East 159th Street
Resolution Approving Class 8 Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the application for Class 8 property tax
incentive for your consideration.
Tamberlin Henry requests the special exception to the 24 month abandonment rule
under the Class 8 Ordinance for Property Index Number 29-21-104-007-0000, located
at 396 East 159th Street, Harvey, Illinois. This Resolution is required so that the owner
can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting the Tamberlin Henry application for Class 8, the Resolution of the City of
Harvey, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your
information.

 PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 8 which provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for a commercial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Tamberlin Henry, and the Resolution of the City of Harvey for a vacant
commercial facility located at 396 East 159th Street, Harvey, Cook County, Illinois,
Property Index Number 29-21-104-007-0000.
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period
of qualifying abandonment in cases where the commercial facility has been abandoned
for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 14 months to date, and that special circumstances are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 8 abatement incentive to Tamberlin Henry for an abandoned
commercial facility located at 396 East 159th Street, Harvey, Cook County, Illinois; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business & Economics Development Committee on 6/17/03
259879

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated May 28, 2003:
Re:

Leep’s Supply Company
Resolution Approving Class 8 Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the Leep’s Supply Company
application for Class 8 property tax incentive for your consideration.
Leep’s Supply Company requests approval of the special exception to the 24 month
vacancy rule under the Class 8 Ordinance. This Resolution is required so that the
owner can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting the company application for Class 8, the Resolution of the Village of
Lynwood, Illinois, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your
information.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION

 WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 8 which provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for an industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Leeps Supply Company and the Resolution from Lynwood, Illinois, for
a vacant industrial facility located at 19830 Stony Island, Lynwood, Cook County, Illinois,
Property Index Number 32-11-404-021; and
WHEREAS, Class 8 requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened period
of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been abandoned
for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 20 months to date, and that special circumstances are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 8 abatement incentive to the company for an abandoned
industrial facility located at 19830 Stony Island, Lynwood, Cook County, Illinois, under
the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business & Economics Development Committee on 6/17/03
259880

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D. Clemons,
Director, transmitting a Communication, dated May 20, 2003:
Re:

SASA Holdings, LLC
Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the Company’s application for Class
6b property tax incentive for your consideration.
SASA Holdings, LLC requests approval of the special exception to the 24
month abandonment rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is required so
that the company can complete its application to the Assessor of Cook County.
Submitting the company application for Class 6b, the Resolution of the Elk Grove
Village, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your
information.

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real Property
Assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in the assessment
level for an industrial facility; and

 WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from SASA Holdings, LLC and the Resolution from the Elk Grove Village for
an abandoned industrial facility located at 1800 Touhy Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook
County, Illinois, Property Index Number 08-26-303-027-0000.
WHEREAS, Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the shortened
period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility has been
abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the building
was abandoned for 14 months upon submission of application and that special
circumstances are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and Board of
Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for a Cook County
Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to SASA Holdings, LLC for an
abandoned industrial facility located at 1800 Touhy Avenue, Elk Grove Village, Cook
County, Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24 months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to forward a certified copy of this Resolution to the Office of the Cook County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business & Economics Development Committee on 6/17/03
In response to Commissioner Hansen’s question regarding the number of jobs the Department
of Planning estimates, Ron Coverson, Assistant Director for the Department of Planning and
Economic Development stated in regards to the first applicant Tamberlin Henry will create 13
full-time positions, 6b ordinance for SASA Holdings, LLC will create 60 full-time jobs and Leeps
Supply Company the Class 8 application will create 15 full-time jobs for a total of 88 new
positions.
Chairman Collins noted that based on the amount of space and the number of children to be
serviced, the State of Illinois has established laws for day care centers and ratios are included in
this legislation. Additionally, there are local ordinances which deal with child staff ratios.
Commissioner Hansen is concerned that the Department of Planning & Development is not
providing the committee with concrete numbers for proposed jobs.
Chairman Collins stated that Commissioner Hansen’s point is well taken and in the future she
will request the Department of Planning & Development to supply the committee with the
estimates of how many jobs will be created.
Commissioner Hansen suggested that the Department of Planning & Economics give the
committee a memorandum with the estimated jobs that will be created before the Board
meeting.
Commissioner Murphy stated that the county should have an obligation to revisit the businesses
after six months or a year to make certain that they have hired the number of people they said
they would. If they have not the county should have a process where by the county could take
away the tax incentives that were given to them when they first applied.

 Chairman Collins commented that Commissioner Murphy’s suggestion was a great
idea. Chairman Collins stated that she had spoken to the Department of Planning & Economics
about an agreed time where the Business & Economic Development committee can review all
of the Class 6b and Class 8 applications to see if they have kept their commitment as it relates
to jobs.
Commissioner Maldonado stated that he is concerned with the amount of money it’s costing for
each job that is being created, which is approximately $10,000 for each position. He stated that
this is a very costly job development initiative and he thinks it should be looked at.
Commissioner Maldonado, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved Approval of
Communication No. 259878, 259879 and 259880. The motion carried.
Commissioner Moreno moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Maldonado. The
motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Business and Economic
Development

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Earlean Collins, Chairman

Attest:

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Sandra K. Williams, Secretary

 