 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County

Report of the Criminal Justice

Tuesday, July 22, 2014 11:15 AM Cook County Building, Board Room, Rm. 569

Present:

Absent:

118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

842%
ATTENDANCE

Chairman Collins, Commissioners Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin,
Murphy, Moore, Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritohey (2)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Collins asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speaker, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 

1. George Blakemore

323681

14-3726
CREATION OF A COOK COUNTY TASKFORCE TO EVALUATE THE FEASIBILITY
OF ESTABLISHING A COUNTYWIDE FIREARM REGISTRATION SYSTEM AND A
REFERENCE BALLISTICS IMAGING DATABASE (PROPOSED RESOLUTION).
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.

CREATION OF A COOK COUNTY TASKFORCE TO EVALUATE THE
FEASIBILITY OF ESTABLISHING A COUNTYWIDE FIREARM
REGISTRATION SYSTEM AND A
REFERENCE BALLISTICS IMAGING DATABASE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as de?ned in Article
VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, Cook County has an ongoing responsibility to protect the health, welfare and
safety of its residents; and

WHEREAS, the ?ght against violent crime is one of the most important law enforcement
initiatives of our day. And although much progress has been made in reducing the level of
violent crime there is much more that can and must be done; and

WHEREAS, from Newtown, Connecticut to Chicago to Boston to the White House,
Federal, State and local law enforcement are now engaged in a national debate to ?nd more
effective and ef?cient ways of addressing gun violence; and

WHEREAS, forensic science has long played a key role in the detection and solution of
crimes. The science of ballistics, in particular, has been an important component in
addressing violent crimes, which are often committed with ?rearms; and

WHEREAS, the general principle behind ballistic imaging technology is that each ?rearm
imparts markings, unique to that ?rearm, on the shell casing and projectile of expended
ammunition. Ballistic imaging technology was ?rst employed by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) in the early
1990s. Later the collaboration between the FBI and ATF resulted in a uni?ed system called
the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network which specializes in ballistic imaging
of crime-scene data; and

WHEREAS, interest by states to evaluate the desirability and feasibility of establishing a
reference databases of projectiles/cartridge cases associated with ?rearms sold by dealers
within their jurisdiction prompted the Of?ce of Justice Programs, National Institute of
Justice and the Department of Justice to commission the Center for Criminal Justice
Technology (CCJT) to develop a computer-based impact analysis model and handbook to
assist state legislators and law enforcement of?cials in establishing and operating a
Reference Ballistic Imaging Database (RBID) that meets national standards; and

WHEREAS, the creation of a statewide RBID system would call for all test-?red shell
casings and projectiles be provided to the state police at the time of sale for all new or
refurbished guns. Once the exemplars are imaged and archived, the images will be stored in
an image database, along with such information as serial number, gun model, and vendor;
and

WHEREAS, shell casings or bullets that are recovered from crime scenes may be imaged
and searched against the RBID. A hit will identify the serial number and type of ?rearm that
?red the ammunition recovered at the crime scene. This information, in turn, can be used in
conjunction with the state?s permit or registration database to determine the original legal
owner of the ?rearm. Law enforcement authorities will then use this information as a lead to
help determine the perpetrator(s) of the crime being investigated. Effectively, this approach
permits the conduct of a gun trace without having recovered a ?rearm. In the case of a gun
that has been recovered from a crime scene and whose serial number has been obliterated,
law enforcement of?cials can test-?re the gun, image the shell casing and/or projectile, and
then search the RBID to determine such information as the gun make, model, serial number,
and vendor.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners create a taskforce to evaluate the feasibility of establishing a

countywide ?rearms registration system and a reference ballistics imaging database.

*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

Page 2 of 22

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski that this
Resolution be recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes:

Absent:

323682

Chairman Collins, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Moore,
Commissioners Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritchey (2)

14-3727

INTENSIVE STUDENT EDUCATION AND FAMILY SUPPORT CENTERS
(PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by Earlean
Collins, County Commissioner.

INTENSIVE STUDENT EDUCATION AND FAMILY SUPPORT CENTERS

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as de?ned in Article
VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise
any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, it is a universal concept that family and community issues impact educational
success and that when social and economic supports are not available to assist children and
their families to buffer the consequences of poverty and other problems then no amount of
school reform will change the educational success of the abovementioned population; and

WHEREAS, just as important is the data, which has historically been the same, showing
the correlation between education and self-worth, decision making, crime, unemployment,
homelessness, incarceration and health; and

WHEREAS, it has been nationally accepted and proven that early identi?cation and
intervention programs have better results for behavior modi?cation problems than to wait
until children get into more serious problems at a later age; and

WHEREAS, the school system affords the greatest opportunity for early identi?cation of
children who are experiencing academic and/or social dif?culties in their homes and/or at
school; and

WHEREAS, children of working parents or guardians who are expelled from school for
extended periods of time without supervision are prime targets for gang recruitment and
other criminal activities; and

WHEREAS, the concept behind the centers is to take a holistic approach to addressing
problems by linking home, school and community to create a more comprehensive,
integrated system of school-based student and family support services.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners recognizes the potential for the use of intensive student education
and family support centers to address crime reduction and family and community stability;
and

Page 3 of 22

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners extend an open invitation to the Illinois State Board of Education, Illinois P-
20 Council, City of Chicago, Chicago Board of Education and community stakeholders to
discuss more effective ways to better serve the needs of children from families who are at
risk of academic and/or social economic failure and the creation of a lead exploratory
committee to examine the use of these centers; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the exploratory committee examines the feasibility
of establishing intensive student education and family support centers that:

0 Serve students at risk of academic failure and behavioral problems; and

0 Are located in or near schools in which twenty percent or more of
the student body are eligible for free or reduced-priced school meals; and

0 Promote identi?cation and coordination of new and existing funding and
resource pools; and

0 Include, but not limited to, the following core components:
a. Afford students who exhibit behavioral problems alternatives to

suspension except for those who commit crimes that would
constitute a felony if they were adults; and

b. Afford opportunities for early identi?cation and intervention for
students who are at risk for academic failure and behavioral
problems; and

0. Promote a holistic approach when addressing students problems
including family?s critical needs that impact the students ability to
succeed academically and socially; and

d. Minimize the need for new funds by funding collaborations with
federal, state and local units of government, utilizing professionals
who qualify for government and private reimbursement, establish
agreements with colleges and universities with internships and
other programs; and

e. Provide safe havens for children who are forced to live in hostile

home environments through establishing temporary housing

campus like settings; and

Academic and social economic success; and

A safe, stimulating, learning environment; and

Behavior modi?cation; and

Individualized service plans for students in crisis, to be

administered by professionals who qualify for third party

reimbursement; and

j. Reducing school expulsions to only those who commit crimes that
would constitute a felony; and

k. Child, family and community advocacy programs; and

r-p?qorh

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Exploratory Committee issue a written report of
its findings within six months from the date of its? creation; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the
Illinois State Board of Education, Illinois P-20 Council, City of Chicago, Chicago Board of
Education and selected community stakeholders in hopes of collectively ?nding solutions to
minimize barriers to education.

Page 4 of 22

*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Garcia that this
Resolution be accepted as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Collins, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Moore,
Commissioners Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritchey (2)

PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION 14-3727
Sponsored by: EARLEAN COLLINS, County Commissioner
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION
CRISIS INTERVENTION AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CENTERS

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as de?ned in Article VII, Section
6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise any power and perform any
function pertaining to its government and affairs; and

WHEREAS, there is a growing body of evidence that underscores the urgent need for bold action to ?nd
effective solutions to reduce violence, suicide and other antisocial behavior problems among youth and
break the cycle of gun violence in our communities which begins at earlier ages and impacts larger
masses of innocent people each year; and

WHEREAS, it has been proven that the most effective ways to break the cycle of violence is to begin at
earlier ages with proper diagnosis and intervention strategies that will determine the root causes and
proper treatments prior to more serious acts of violence; and

WHEREAS, the trauma informed model program has been accepted as one of the most best case
practices for diagnosing trauma related behavior; and research has shown that there is a direct correlation
between traumatic experience, antisocial behavior, teen suicide rate, youth violence, academic failure and
low self-esteem; and

WHEREAS, a recent Northwestern University study concluded that 2/3 of males and 3A of females
detained at the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC) have some form of mental
illness; and

WHEREAS, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Chicago?s teen suicide rate has been
the highest in the nation since June of 2012. The US. suicide statistics indicate that mental illness,
trauma, and substance abuse has a direct correlation with the juvenile suicide rate. On average, a young
person (age 15-24) dies by suicide every two hours. Suicide is the third leading cause of death for young
people (15-24), and the ?fth leading cause of death for young people aged 5-14. Most of the recent mass
shootings on our school grounds have usually ended with the perpetrator committing suicide; and

WHEREAS, substance abusers have easy access to the ?ow of drugs in economically depressed
communities which have few job prospects and in which the residents have exhausted all legal mean to

Page 5 of 22

meet their basic needs thus making it easy for the sale of drugs to become the primary economic engine
for survival; and

WHEREAS, it has been nationally accepted and proven that early identi?cation and intervention
programs have better results for behavior modi?cation problems than to wait until children get into more
serious problems at a later age; and

WHEREAS, according to a Project NIA report, Chicago Public School (CPS) students are the human
lifeline that feeds the JTDC. In 2012, 84% of CPS student arrests were for minor crimes. Minor
offenders are often given disciplinary suspensions. Students who are suspended are three times more
likely to drop out of high school by the 10th grade and males who dropped out of school are ?ve times
more likely to be incarcerated than their peers with diplomas. While blacks represent only about 42% of
CPS students, they accounted for a staggering 75% of school-based arrests in 2012; and

WHEREAS, the school system affords the greatest opportunity for early identi?cation of children who
are experiencing academic and/or social dif?culties; and children of working parents or guardians who
are expelled from school for extended periods of time without supervision are prime targets for gang
recruitment and other criminal activities; and

WHEREAS, the critical need for establishing the Crisis Intervention and Behavioral Health Centers is to
afford an opportunity for children to receive professional assistance for behavior modi?cation, crime
reduction, academic achievement and improvement of self-esteem to overcome anger, hurt, and to learn
how to cope with past traumatic experiences. The centers will provide a safe haven and services for those
in need as an alternative to incarceration for those who commit minor crimes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners support the development of Crisis Intervention and Behavioral Health Centers and efforts
to seek State Capital Funds and Federal matching funds to develop the Centers; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Crisis Intervention and Behavioral Health Centers serve as an
alternative to taking those who commit minor crimes to jail; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the JTDC Advisory Board shall work to identify suitable places
fer the Crisis Intervention and Behavioral Health Centers to be developed and to submit a report on site
selection to the Board of Commissioners by October 31, 2014; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the JTDC Advisory Board shall seek input from community
stakeholders and participants in the consortium of wraparound service providers including hospitals,
universities, professional behavioral health specialists and social workers. The Board will explore the
development of the treatment model and enhancing essential service capacity in areas of greatest need.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that JTDC Advisory Board can make recommendations on policy for
early identi?cation and treatment of trauma related illnesses of children.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Garcia that this
Resolution be recommended for approval as substituted. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Collins, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Moore,
Commissioners Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritchey (2)

Page 6 of 22

323683

14-3729

CREATING AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL TASKFORCE TO REDUCE CRIME
COMMITTED BY PERSONS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS SUBSTANCE
ABUSE (PROPOSED RESOLUTION). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by
Earlean Collins, County Commissioner.

CREATING AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL TASKFORCE
TO REDUCE CRIME COMMITTED BY PERSONS WITH
MENTAL ILLNESS SUBSTANCE ABUSE

WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government as de?ned in
Article VII, Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and
affairs; and

WHEREAS, the state of Illinois has primary responsibility for individuals with
mental illness and drug addiction it has imposed upon Cook County tax payers to
shoulder the entire ?nancial burden; and

WHEREAS, the closing of the Illinois state mental institutions coupled with
declining resources for treatment at the local level, are the driving in?uences for the
increase in the homeless population, the crime rate, and overcrowding at Cook
County Jail; and

WHEREAS, according to the latest law enforcement data approximately 65% of
homicides are committed by individuals with mental illness and/or drug addicted;
and

WHEREAS, Cook County has experienced a drastic increase in gun crimes
resulting in injuring and killing of innocent babies, youth and adult bystanders,
which have drawn attention throughout the country and abroad; and

WHEREAS, the release of thousands of ex-offenders and returning veterans who
have exhausted all legal means to supply their basic needs create fertile ground for
expanding violent subculture; and

WHEREAS, gangs and other criminal elements have formed a culture of violence
and retaliation which have begun to dominate economically distressed communities
with fear, human traf?cking and economic exploitation.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of
Commissioners create an intergovernmental taskforce to reduce crime committed by
persons with mental illness and/or substance abuse; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the task force be represented of federal, state,
county, local government and community stakeholders. The purpose of the task

Page 7 of 22

force is twofold; (1) to develop a collaborative system of services to facilitate our
crime reduction efforts and (2) to provide more humane services for homeless
individuals with mental illness, drug addicted, jobless veterans and ex-offenders
who have exhausted all legal means for supporting their critical human needs; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the taskforce should be comprised of 21
members selected by the following:

1.

3.

9.

10.
ll.

12.

Two (2) appointed by the County Board President; and

Two (2) appointed by Cook County Hospital Systems Board; and

Two (2) appointed by the Governor or the General Assembly: from health
human services; and

Three (3) appointed by the Federal Department: one from Health Human
Services, one from HUD and one from the department of Veterans Affairs;
and

Three (3) appointed by the Mayor of Chicago: one from Department of
Human Service, two from Law enforcement; and

Two (2) appointed by Cook County Sheriff; and

One (1) appointed by Suburban Mayors Association: one appointed by
Suburban 708 Mental Health Board; and

Two (2) appointed by Cook County Circuit Court: one from mental health
court and one from drug court; and

Three (3) appointed by Community Mental Health Care Providers
Association; and

One (1) Clinical and

One (1) appointed by Hospital Association; and

One (1) appointed by the Coalition of the Homeless; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the duties of the taskforce shall include but
not be limited to the following:

1.

Determine the number of homeless individuals with mental illness, drug
addicted, veterans and ex?offenders who have no legal means to supply
their basic human needs; and

The number of aforementioned population who have committed serious
crimes; and

Establish a system of treatment services to respond to their essential human
needs in accordance with federal, state and local laws; and

Develop a funding consolidation plan that will support a holistic
individualized service plan that can be funded by different service providers
who are funded and responsible for the various services needs outlined in
the individual plan; and

Conduct meetings with local police and community service providers to
gain ?rst hand knowledge as to the problems and needs of the
aforementioned population in order that the service plan will be targeted to
respond to their speci?c needs; and

Contract for professional and technical support with Cook County Board
approval for staff and other technical and professional services that?s
essential to ful?ll the task force responsibilities, to the extent possible

Page 8 of 22

7,

utilize existing qualified county task forces and volunteers; and
Within ninety days provide a progress report to the Cook County Board;
and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the speci?c action plan shall include, but not
be limited to the following:

1.

Access the number and quality of service providers in the targeted areas.
Conduct individual and group meetings to gather ?rsthand knowledge and
information; and

Identify speci?c services and needs of returning homeless veterans.
Conduct meetings with US Department of Veteran Affairs and local veteran
centers, and organizations; and

Identify current and past Government funding sources and dollars spent on
service needs over the last several years in the targeted areas; and

Conduct a feasibility review of all government special use funds speci?c to
Human Services including grant funds for the target population; and
Establish a Cook County Housing Trust Fund in collaboration with the state
housing trust fund, Chicago Housing program, US, HUD, US Department
of Veterans Affairs, and the Cook County Homes Program which could be
administrated under Cook County Land Bank Authority to ensure their low
income housing goals; and

Establish rules for spending priorities from money saved from crime
reduction in Cook County; and

To lobby the state Governor and legislators to revisit mandatory sentencing
laws; and

Expand Crisis Intervention Teams to all police districts in the targeted
areas; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all options are explored to establish
coordinated funding pools made of stakeholders who target the needs of the family,
including but not limited to the following:

1.

2.

3.

Employ professionals who qualify for federal reimbursement for health
services including and emotional problems; and

Work with universities schools of social work to utilize their students who
need to meet their practical work experience requirements; and

Tuition reimbursement programs for students who agree to work for the
county for a speci?ed time and in high crime areas; and

Utilize dollars saved by diverting individuals suffering from mental illness
and /or drug addiction from the Cook County jails and 1115 waiver; and
Consider utilizing the new federal law that allows Counties to establish 708
mental health boards; and

Employ clinical social workers and legal advisors to assist law enforcement
with domestic violence crisis involving children and families. Funding pool
established in collaboration with Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services and mental healthcare reimbursement for clinical social
workers; and

Establish a shared funding pool comprised of:

a. Government and private funds designated for crime prevention and
intervention; and
b. Health and Human Services at all levels of government; and

Page 9 of 22

Housing Funds at all levels of government; and

Job training workforce investment funds; and

Special grants; and

Redirecting a percentage of tax levy for public safety; and

Shifting funds from programs inside prisons and jail to develop
services in the communities.

remap-.0

*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski that this
Resolution be recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes:

Absent:

323684

Chairman Collins, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Moore,
Commissioners Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski(15)

Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritchey(2)

14-3731

COOK COUNTY JAIL DIVERSION PROGRAM FOR NON VIOLENT MENTALLY
ILL SUBSTANCE ABUSE DETAINEES OR ARRESTEES (PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT). Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored byTem
P?reekwin-lele?President, Earlean Collins, 
I 

.L 
.. 

County Commissioners.

COOK COUNTY JAIL DIVERSION PROGRAM FOR
NON VIOLENT MENTALLY ILL 
SUBSTANCE ABUSE DETAINEES OR ARRESTEES

 
 

     

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 46 Law
Enforcement, Article IV Jail Diversion Program, Division 2 Program Established, Sections
46-201 through 46-207, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 46-201. Preamble

the County ol?Cook is a home rule unit of government as de?ned in Article
VII. Section 6(a) of the 1970 Constitution of the State of and as such may exercise
and neiform anv function pertaining to its aovernmenLaml affairs; al?

WHEREAS, Cool; County has an ongoing responsibility for protecting the health and
satiety of its residents and remains committed to public service that is efficient, equitable
and accountable; and

WHEREAS- approximately 20% ol'the iail population is diagnosed with mental illness and

if counleglgwigh the population suffering with substance abuse the number increases to
approximately 60%; and

Page 10 of 22

WHEREAS for individuals with mental illness and substance abuse who are diverted from
incarceration Cook County saves an estimated $2,000.00 per month by avoiding the cost of
prosecution and court expenses not including the cost of heatthcare. More importan'tlyhij
well documented that a more efficient use ofcrimina! iustice dollars is to allocate
resources to diverting non-violent mentally ill and substance abuse detainees or arrest?
from incarceration and into holistic community based treatment programs; and

 

 

 

WHEREAS, some diversionary methods currently employed are among the most
successful; ore-booking: diversion at the ?rst line of contact by the arresting officer. (2)
post-booking: diversion at the State?s Attorneys level and (3) the mental health and drug
courts and

 

WHEREAS. the establishment of a Cool?; County Jail Diversion Program. in partnership
with the State of Illinois. local law enforcement, communityvbased mental health and social
service nroviders. will reduce Cook County's iail population and improve the quality of life
for the aforementioned population.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT ORDAINED. hy the President and the Cook County Board
of Commissioners to amend the Cook County Jail Diversion Program for Non-Violent
Mentally 111 and/or Substance Abuse Detainee or arrestee.

Sec. 46-202. Short Title.

This Ordinance shall he cited and known as the ?Cook County Jail Diversion
Program for Non-Violent Mentally Ill and/or Substance Abuse Detainees or Arrestees".

Sec. 46-203. Purpose.

The purposes of the County Jail Diversion Program are to:

(1) Improve public safety and reduce overcrowding at the County ja_i1 by
establishing partnerships and cooperative working relationships between
state, federal and local units of government and community based service
providers for the housing, and treatment and case management of the
non- -violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse
detainees or arrestees in the Co_ok County.

(2) Provide non-violent mentally ill

and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees with improved access to the
appropriate assessment and treatment services.

 

(3) Reduce rates of recidivism among
effeaelers non?violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or
arrestees.

(4) Reduce the jail population in the County.

Page 11 of 22

(5) Assist in maintaining compliance with the Federal consent decree on jail
overcrowding.

(6) Afford equal access to all people, without regard to race, color, sex, age,
religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital
status, parental status, military discharge status, source of income, housing,
or any other protected categoryie_s established by law, to alternatives to
incarceration.

(7) Improve positive relationships between target population eitizens and law
enforcement officers.

(8) Ease the ?nancial burden on County taxpayers for the cost of treatment for
the aforementioned population in the County correctional system.

Sec.46-204. De?nitions.

The following words. terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section. except where the context clearly indicates a

different meaning:

County means the County of Cook.

Appropriate Authorities means the Circuit _Court of Cook County. the State?s
Attorney of Cook County, the SheriffofCook County. the Public Defender of Cook County
and local law enforcement.

Case Management means those services which will assist individuals in gaining
access to needed social. educational. medical, treatment and other services. (20 ILCS 30 It?l-
It). Cowoccurring Substance Abuse Disorder means an individual with mental illness and
substance abuse (M.I.S.A.).

Crisis Intervention means to safely intervene with people in crisis in order to
stabilize a crisis situation while minimizing the risk of harm to the individual and all

persons involved.

 

Diversion Plan means anjndividualized community based treatment and supportive
service plan as an alternative to incarceration with a focus on minimizing repeat unlawful
conduct.

Felony means an offense for which a sentence to death or to a term ofimprisonment
in a penitentiary for one year or more is provided. (720 ILCS 

Class 4 Felony means an offense forwhich a sentence to aterm of imprisonment of
1 to 3 years. (730 ILCS 

Mental Health Service Provider means Mental Health Service Providers with
mgjrisein providing compreltenvae emotional andr?or services,
in accordance with the Illinois Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities Code, 405
et seo., and consistent with standards adopted 15: recognized protessional mental
health service provider associations including the [llinois Association.

 

Page 12 of 22

Mental illness means a mental or emotional disorder that substantially impairs a
person's thought. perception of reality. emotional process. iudgtnent. behavior. or abilitv to
cope with the ordinaw demands of life. but does not include a developmental disabilitvj
dementia or Alzheimer's disease absent a substance abuse disorder. or an
abnormalityr manifested onlv hv repeated criminal or otherwise antisocial conduct. (Lilli)
ILCS 5/1-129.

Misdemeanors means any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment-
other than to a penitentiary. for less than one vear mav be imposed. (720 ILCS SIE-I 

Class A misdemeanor means an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment shall
be a determinate sentence of less than one year. 730 ILCS 

Class misdemeanor means an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment shall
be a determinate sentence ofnot more than 6 months. (730 54.5430 

Class misdemeanor means an offense for which a sentence of imprisonment of
not more than 30 davs.(7301LCS 5-4.5-65 (a_L

Post Booking Diversion means diversion agreed to bv the States Attorney?s Of?ce
after the arrest of a Detainee as an alternative to prosecution.

Pre~Booking Diversion means diversion agreed to by local law enforcement
authorities prior to any formal charges being ?led against a detainee.

Substance Abuse Service Providers means individuals in local organizations and
health facilities with expertise in providing comprehensive assessments and treatment
services in accordance with the Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependence Act, 20
ILCS 301! I et seq.. as administered bv the Department of Human Services. formerly
known as the Illinois Department of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse.

Target Population mean non-violent mentallv ill andlor substance abuse detainee or
arrestce. with a primary focus on offenders from areas with the highest crime rates.

Third Partv llealth Coverage means health coverage provided by public or private
reimbursement insurance. including but not limited to IS Waiver, Medicaid or Med icarc.

Sec. 46-202; Scope.

The County Board calls upon persons responsible for the administration of the
criminal justice system ?deb?the in Cook County1 and the of?cials and community service
providers responsible for mental health services in the State of Illinois to work together to
develop improved and expanded diversion programs for peesetHeFFerng?from non-violent
mentally ill and/or substance. abuse detainees or arrestees. 

 
 
  

   
    

  

    

  

iail diversion programs must incorporate:

Page 13 of 22

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Assessments. Detainees who are considered for diversion must agree to
undergo an individualized mental health and physical evaluation and
assessment and to accept referrals for appropriate services including
housing and case management. The program must be designed to reduce
the number of non-violent mentally ill_ and/or substance abuse arrestees or
detainees entering into the County jail and
afford greater opportunities for crisis intervention and essential supportive
services.

Provider Participating service standards providers. 
In addition to meeting the
mental health and substance @3 disorder Service Providers who
participate in the jail diversion program shall be those who are already
receiving funds from Federal, State, County, and/or local units of
governments for Mental Health and Substance Abuse Disorder services.
All County funding for such services, if any, shall be performance based
and any renewal shall be contingent upon the quality and quantity of service
rendered the previous year. Each participating diverted detainee or arrestee
must have an individualized service plan which shall be developed by a
licensed professional fn?the?Sfate in the ?eld of mental health and substance
abuse disorder. This plan must be in collaboration with the appropriate law
enforcement of?cials and the criminal justice system when applicable. The
treatment plan shall be consistent with the Illinois Mental Health and
Developmental Disabilities Code, 405 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and in accordance
with the Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependency Act, 20 ILCS
301/1 et seq., standards adopted by recognized professional mental health
and substance abuse service provider associations including the Illinois
Association, and the Illinois Department of Human Services.

 

Reg-ideal eCrisis resodrees?faflaw-ea-fofeemeat 




. 
offender: Intervention Center. A 24- hour crisis intmention resource
center. equipped with social 11101 Lela will be established and_ in _ea1:h police
dislr 11:1 within the targeted areas 10 assist with 1135011101313 101 11111111171115.1111]
follow- -up case management as needed. The crisis center and the crisis
intervention team shall be subject to funding by the intergovernmental
agreement established in accordance with provisions set forth in Division 3

of this article.

 

 

 

 

Third party health care reimbursement sources. In those cases where a
diverted detainee does not have a source of third party health coverage, the
Co_ok County Health and Hospital System Bureau?ofHealth?Sewiees shall
make every concerted effort to assist the diverted detainee in making
application for any third party health care reimbursement.

Page 14 of 22

Sec. 46-203Q. Target population.

The County's Jail Diversion Program shall focus on Hoe?lelitweni-g?eeiegieies non-
violent meyLaIIy ill ondfor substance abuse detainees or arrestees From the targeted areas. of

 

 

Sec. 46-2041. Eligibility.

Non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse offender who commits a
Class A- and misdemeanor is qualified for ore-booking diversion where
a plea of guilty is not required.

(2) Non-violent mentally ill and/or substance abuse offender who commits a
non-violent Class 4 felony offense.

 



 

Sec. 46-205?. Types of jail diversion programs.

This Jail Diversion Program is designed to strengthen existing jail
diversion efforts which are currently used by some local law enforcement of?cials such as
station adjustments, peer juries, special courts, and other alternatives to incarceration.

This Jail Diversion Program will include four types of diversion, each of
which shall be subject to the approval of the appropriate authorities and have agreed-upon
conditions by all parties involved, the agreement shall be tailored to particular
circumstances, for which diverted detainees shall be held accountable. The four categories
of diversion are as follows:

(1) Pre-booking diversion. Pre-booking iail diversion does not mandate or
require that an detainee or errestcc pies; guilty to on offense prior to
participation in a diversion program. Pre-booking diversion may be sought
by local law enforcement for non- -violent mentally ill and/or substance
abuse detainees or arrestees 
as often as possible. The arresting
of?cer shall be the ?rst line of contact and shall be encouraged to take the
following basic steps prior to any of?cial charges for minor and/or nuisance
crlmes:

 

 

Page 15 of 22

(2)

(3)

a. Attempt to resolve any crisis without harm to the suspect, general
public, or law enforcement of?cials.

b. Refer directly to a hospital or treatment center when appropriate.

0. Contact parent or guardian if individual with mega] illness
normally?H4 and/o_r substance abuse detainee is under 17.

d. Evaluate the situation and determine if the suspect is potentially
divertible.
e. Determine if detainee or arrestee can be sent to his or her residence

under conditions agreed upon by law enforcement, detainee
offender, parent(s) or guardian, and the victim of the crime.

f. Contact a community based mental health and substance abuse
service provider when appropriate for proper assessment and
referral for services.

g. If no community based mental health and substance abuse service
provider is available contact the 244W crisis center for
crisis intervention.

h. In cases where the detainee or arrestee has caused injury to a person
or damage to one's property, the appropriate authorities shall be
encourage to explore all efforts for restitution as a condition of pre-
booking diversion.

i. Complete a detailed incident report.

Post-booking diversion. This category of diversion may be sought by the
State's Attorney for non-violent mentally ill and/o_r substance abuse
detainees who are detained for crimes that constitute Class A misdemeanors
and Class 4 felonies and-whieh?are?neawelent. The State's Attorney may
seek a pre?arraignment investigation which may include, but need not be
limited to, assessment by a mental health and substance abuse service
provider to determine whether the suspect is eligible for diversion. If a
diversion plan is agreed upon by all parties involved, it may include a
requirement that the diverted detainee adhere to an individualized treatment
and service plan developed by an appropriate clinician, provision for
restitution with respect to injuries or property damage caused by the
diverted detainee and may identify a case manager who shall monitor the
diverted detainee's compliance with the diversion plan and report on such
compliance as required in the diversion plan.

Pre-trial diversion to special courts. This level shall continue to emphasize
proper assessment and speedy trials for those detainees who have been
diagnosed by the appropriate clinicians as hei?g?meHJraHy?i-l-l having a
mental illness or with substance abuse disorders. If a detainee has been
diagnosed as being meMa-H?-H having a mental illness or diagnosed with
substance abuse disorders and is held over for trial the detainee shall have

Page 16 of 22

immediate access to the appropriate treatment services. The case should be
referred to the appropriate special courts for a speedy trial. This category of
diversion is subject to the approval of the court.

(4) Post-adjudication diversion.

a. This category of diversion is for persons adjudicated guilty of an
offense by the courts. In cases where a person has also been found,
by a licensed clinician, as laemganentaHyLH-l having a mental illness
and suffering with substance abuse it has been agreed upo_n en
by the courts that a diversion plan may be developed, that person
shall be eligible for immediate treatment.

b. This category of diversion consists of dispositions in the Juvenile
Court and the misdemeanor courts within the jurisdiction of the
District 4, Maywood Courthouse of the Circuit Court of Cook
County and the Mental Health Court. In appropriate cases as
ordered by the court, a diversion plan may be developed as a
condition of a defendant's probation or supervision. The court may
consider assignment of a case manager to monitor the defendant's
compliance with the diversion plan and may require noti?cation of
the arresting law enforcement agency or other parties prior to the
defendant's release from custody or discharge from hospitalization
for mental health or substance abuse treatment.

(5) Resumption of prosecution. Failure to comply with the diversion plan shall
subject the diverted detainee to further prosecution.
Sec. 46-2062. Crisis intervention training.

The intergovernmental agreement shall include provisions for shared resources for

Wad?premetim?el training opportunities for law enforcement and service

providers with respect to crisis intervention involving persons with mental illness and/0_r
substance abuse, whieh Training shall include recognition of mental illness and substance
abusers, knowledge of available local resources and the

proper use of force.
Sec. 46-204?. Con?dentiality.

The rules of con?dentiality, as set forth under the Illinois Mental Health and
Developmental Disabilities Code and Alcoholism and Other Drug Abuse and Dependency
Act and other applicable State, Federal and local laws, shall be adhered to.

Sec. 46-211. Intergovernmental Agreement.

The Cook County Board President and the Board shall request that the State?s
develop an Intergovernmental Agreement between (funk County Board of
L'_mnmissiuners City of Chicago, State of Illinois, Coo}; Countv Sheriff,_Cuult County
Circuit Court, and local units otfguvernmeul wit 1_i__n the targeted areas. The agreements shall
address the following:

 

Page 17 of 22

 The role of the State of Illinois. the County of Cook, and communitv 708
mental health boards in regards to funding and providing services for the

target population.

The feasibility of improved service coverage for diverted detainees or arrestees
through shared resources.

Q) The creation and funding of 24-hour crisis intervention centers.

(51) Standardized policies and procedures to ensure equal opportunity for all
mentallv ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees to participate in a

diversion program.
Sec. 46-212. Funding.

Mental health and substance abuse service providers participating in the Cook
County Jail Diversion Program shall seek reimbursement for their service from third party
reimbursement sources ti.e. Waiver. Kid-Care. MedicarefMedicaid. andfor private
insurance entities) and when applicable may be compensated through Federal. State and
local funds; subject to the appropriation and availability from State, County and local

government.

Sec. 46-213. Advisorv Panel.

The purpose ofthe Advisory Panel is to establish a strong advocacy and resource
group to enhance Cool; County?s effort to improve the quality of mental health and
substance abuse services in Cook County and to reduce the population of non-violent
mentally ill andfor substance abuse detainees or arrestees entering the Cook County criminal
justice system. The thirteen member panel shall be composed of persons with expertise in
law enforcement. criminal justice assessment and treatment of the mentally ill and
substance abuse populations.

Sec. 46-214. Structure.

A thirteen-member Advisory Panel is established to report to the Board of
Commissioners regarding the implementation and evaluation of the Cook County Jail

Diversion Program.

T__he Advisory Panel shall consist ofthirteen members as follows: {i appointed
by the Chief Judge o?l?the?ircuit Court oi'Cook County. l) appointed by the Cook County
?ght. (2) appointed by the Cook County State?s Attorneyt appointed by the Cook
County Public Defender. appointed by the City of Chicago Of?ce of the Mayor. 
appointed by the Village of_Maywood, and (5) appointed by the President of the Cook
County Board from among the following: (1) selected the Cook County
Department of Public Health. selected from University of Illinois Jane Addams School
pf?ocial Work. (1 1 selected Iiom Illinois Community Mental Health Providers Association:
and selected from a consumer organizations with I) representing mental health.

 

This Advisory ?anel?s composition will reflect the ofthe County as a
whole. with a majority selected from the target areas. The Panel shall select
officers from among its membership.

 

Page 18 of 22

Sec. 46-215.

Respogsihilities 0f Advisory Panel.

The Advisory Panel shall:

 

L1)

(2)

(10)

(11)

Sec. 46-216.

Recommend policies and procedures for implementation of
the Cook County Jail Diversion Program.

Identify current local. state and federal funding resources for services to the
mentally ill and/or substance abuse detainees or arrestees.

Develop a feasibility study to determine the availability of essential mental
health and substance abuse services at the community level, to ensure a
successful mental program for both youth and adults.

Recommend a structure for maximizing the use of existing resources and
making them readily available to law enforcement crisis intervention
centers.

Assist in establishing a collaborative relationship between the State of
tllinois. County of Cook, local municipalities and_ oca] community based
mental health and substance abuse service providers. with emphasis on
mutual goals. shared responsibilities and resources.

Review existing training curriculum for law enforcement officials and make
recommendations for change to enhance their ability. where needed. to
identify mentally ill and substance abuse persons.

Establish criteria for measuring the outcome of the programs.

Devise a plan for minimizing cost through service integration and
coordination.

Lobby federal and state governments to improve funding resources for Jail
Diversion Program services at the local level.

Request that the County apply for funds for support staff to the Advisory
PaneL

Recommend procedures 3; ensure nondiscriminatory opportunities for
detainees and arrestees to participate in a diversion program.

Establishment of Electronic Database.

Law Enforcement. the State?s Attorney's Office, the Courts and the Probation
Department are required to maintain a data base of information who have
been diverted by their respegtive agencies in order to improye information sharing between
departments and to assist in identifying repeat offenders who may have_been previously
diagnosed with a mental illness and/or substance abuse.

Page 19 of 22

Sec. 46-217.

Police Evaluations.

Law Enforcement is encouraged to include the following criteria for evaluation of
police response to crises involving mentally ill and/or substance abuse offenders.
Evaluations of police responses should be consistentlv conducted on a case-bv~case basis it;
dietermine the best case practices when detaining or arresting people in crisis. Evaluation
criteria should include. but not be limited to. the following:

(1)



gs)

(1)

Sec. 46-218.

Was there any signi?cant violence or harm done to the subiect. the general
law of?cials during the process ofanorehension'?

Was the crisis resolved on the scene? At the police station? Or elsewhere?

Where family members alerted and included in the rzrroblem solving 
in accordance with State and Federal law. when the offender is under the

age of 17?

Was the detainee transported or referred to the appropriate service provider
when warranted?

Was the detainee formallv incarcerated?

Did law enforcement take advantage of comntunitvnbased resources and
were the resources readilv available as well as suitable for the situation?

Was this a repeat encounter with the detainee or arrestee within a year. six
months, 90 davs. or 45davs. who had participated in a diversion program?

Performance Measurement Standards.

 

Performance measurement standards shall include. but not limited to. the following:

(1)

Q)

19





Percentage of detainees or arrestees with case managers.
Total number of detainees or arrestees seen per quarter.

Nunlber of for detainee or__arr'estee and percentage of
those kept.

Percentage ofdetaiuccs or arrestees with living arrangements.
The number of periodic follow-ups with detainee or arrestee.

Percentage of current and accurate detainee or arrestee records that are
available for review by any appropriate agencv.

Progress reports on arrestee?s or dctaineeis. efforts in eomplvina with their
individualized treatment plan.

Rate of recidivism.

Page 20 of 22

(2) Reduction in the iail population

 

(10) Number of community-based service providers.
(11) Percentage of detainees or arrestees in diversion programs.
(12) Percentage of reduction in non-violent crimes.

13) Cost analysis

 

(14) Increase stakeholder?s training regarding; identifying and servicing persons
with mental illness and/or substance abuse.

 

Sec. 46-219. Applicability.

As provided in Article VII. Section of the State of Illinois Constitution of
1970. if this Ordinance conflicts with an ordinance of a municipality. the municipal?s
ordinance shall prevail within the municipality. This Ordinance shall be enforceable within
the municipal iurisdiction to the extent permitted under the statutes and constitution of the
State of Illinois and of the United States of America.

Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to compel law enforcement of?cers;
the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce. the Public Defender?s Of?ce, the Circuit Court of Cook
County or any of?ce or agency working with those of?ces in the administration of the
criminal iustice system to take any action which is inconsistent with the iudglnent and
decisions of those of?ces or to act in a manner which is contrary to existing law. To the
extent that any provision of this Ordinance requires express statutory authorization. the
approval of any of?cial or requires an agreement between the affected parties, this
Ordinance shall be contingent upon such statutory authorization. approval or agreement.

 

 

Severabilitv.

If any article. sentence, or clause of this Ordinance or the application
thereof to any person is for any reason deemed to be invalid or unconstitutional. such
decision shall not affect any remaining portion. section, or part thereof or application ol?this
Ordinance to any person.

 

Sec. 46-221. Effective Date.

(1) This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage.

 

(2) Within six weeks of the passage of this Ordinance an Advisory Panel shall
be appointed and approved.

 

(1) Within one year after the_in1p ementation of this Ordinance. the Advisory
Panel shall report to the Cook (sanity Board of Commissioners regarding
the number of" detainees and arrestees diverted the cost bene?ts to Cook

County. the effectiveness andtfoture viability ol" the jail diversipn program.

 

Page 21 of 22

Secs. 46-208y - 46-230. Reserved.

*Referred to the Committee on Criminal Justice on 05/19/13.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Tobolski that this
Resolution be recommended for deferral. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Collins, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Moore,
Commissioners Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)
Absent: Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritchey (2)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Garcia that this
committee be adjourned. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Chairman Collins, Butler, Daley, Gainer, Garcia, Gorman, Goslin, Murphy, Moore,
Commissioners Silvestri, Schneider, Sims, Steele, Suffredin and Tobolski (15)

Absent: Commissioners Vice Chairman Reyes and Fritchey (2)



YOUR COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING ACTION
WITH REGARD TO THE MATTERS NAMED HEREIN:

File 14-3726 Recommended for Deferral

File 14-3 727 Recommended for Approval as Amended
File 14-3 729 Recommended for Deferral

File 14?3731 Recommended for Deferral and File
Respectfully submitted, f.

 

. - 
(354* MW MQ 73 at:

Chairman SEcretary

 

 

Video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 22 of 22

