Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Workforce, Housing & Community Development Committee
Wednesday, January 13, 2016

9:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room, 569
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook County at
the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing, their
name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Duly
authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in the meeting agenda.
Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public testimony will forfeit their
allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda,
and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary will keep track of the time and advise when the time
for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or
otherwise inappropriate language when addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an
item that is germane to the meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the
meeting and/or disqualify the person from providing future testimony.

16-0994
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 7/29/2015

16-0690
Sponsored by: BRIDGET GAINER, LUIS ARROYO JR, RICHARD R. BOYKIN, JOHN P. DALEY, JESÚS
G. GARCÍA, and LARRY SUFFREDIN County Commissioners

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY TASK FORCE TO RESEARCH THE EXPANSION OF
AFFORDABLE AND QUALITY HEALTHCARE TO UNINSURED RESIDENTS OF COOK COUNTY
WHEREAS, the County of Cook is a home rule unit of government pursuant to the 1970 Illinois Constitution,
Article VII, Section 6 (a); and,
WHEREAS, pursuant to their home rule powers, the Cook County Commissioners may exercise any power and
perform any function relating to their governments and affairs, including the power to regulate for the protection
of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare; and,
WHEREAS, the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners hereby find

 that Cook County shall explore ways in which affordable healthcare can be expanded to all Cook County residents;
and,
WHEREAS, after the Affordable Care Act, 9 percent of Cook County residents remain uninsured for various
reasons, including affordability, program eligibility and program awareness; and,
WHEREAS, nearly 73 percent of Illinois’ uninsured eligible for Get Covered Illinois, the state's health insurance
marketplace, live and work in metropolitan Chicago; and,
WHEREAS, the Cook County Health and Hospital System spent approximately $340 million of uncompensated
care in 2014 for individuals who visited the emergency room either without insurance or otherwise were unable to
pay; and,
WHEREAS, visiting the emergency room is often the only option for the uninsured even in instances of
non-emergencies; and,
WHEREAS, studies show an estimated $18 billion could be saved annually if patients used primary or
preventive health care rather than emergency rooms; and,
WHEREAS, providing structured access to healthcare for the uninsured residents of Cook County has the potential
to save critical taxpayers dollars.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Board of Commissioners create a task force
entitled the Cook County Task Force on Health Care Accessibility to make recommendations to the President and
the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as well as the Cook County Health and Hospital System regarding the
expansion of quality and affordable healthcare to the uninsured residents of Cook County.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the advisory task force is specifically charged with issuing
recommendations on the following topics:
a. Current Policies and Procedures. This analysis shall address the success and challenges of
current policies and procedures of Cook County Government and the Cook County Health and
Hospital System in regards to access and delivery of healthcare services for uninsured Cook
County residents.
b. Healthcare Accessibility Innovation. This analysis shall focus on current best practices and
proposals from similar public health systems across the United States.
c. Public Health Measures. This analysis shall focus on the availability of healthcare services for
the uninsured and their families in Cook County. This shall include capacity and funding, and
ways in which the Cook County Health and Hospital System can coordinate with other
government agencies and not-for-profit entities to offer healthcare delivery programs for the
uninsured and their families.
d. Public Awareness. This analysis shall focus on potential education and community awareness
campaigns targeted for the uninsured and their families; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the advisory task force shall consist of:
a. The Cook County Board President or her designee; the Chairman of the Cook County
Workforce, Housing and Community Development Committee; the Chairman of the Cook
County Business and Economic Development Committee and the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of
the Cook County Health and Hospitals Committee.
b. Cook County Health and Hospital System staff members as determined by the Cook County
Page 2 of 3

 Health and Hospital System Chief Executive Officer or his designee.
c. Community-based advocacy organizations, medical professionals, local healthcare industry
professionals and advocates of access to healthcare campaigns, and other government officials as
invited by the task force members from the Cook County Board of Commissioners.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Cook County Task Force on Healthcare Accessibility shall report its findings
to the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners six months from the
passage of this resolution.
Legislative History : 12/16/15 Board of Commissionersreferred to the Workforce, Housing & Community
Development Committee

______________________________________
Secretary

Chairman:
Vice-Chairman:
Members:

Gainer
Boykin
Sims, Suffredin, Tobolski

Page 3 of 3

 