REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
October 5, 2004
The Honorable,
The Board of Commissioners of Cook County

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Chairman Collins, Vice Chairman Goslin, Commissioners Gorman, Maldonado and
Murphy (5)

Absent:

Commissioners Hansen and Quigley (2)

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Committee on Business and Economic Development of the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, October 5, 2004 at the hour of 9:30 AM in
the Board Room, Room 569, County Building, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Your Committee has considered the following item and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations are as follows:

267491

DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT, by Gwendolyn D.
Clemons, Director, transmitting a Communication, dated September 1, 2004:
Re:

Accord Carton Company (AJC Distribution LLC)
Resolution Approving Class 6b Special Exception to Abandonment

respectfully submitting this Resolution regarding the Accord Carton Company’s
application for Class 6b property tax incentive for your consideration.
Accord Carton Company requests approval of the special exception to the 24
month abandonment rule under the Class 6b Ordinance. This Resolution is
required so that the company can complete its application to the Assessor of
Cook County.
Submitting the company application for Class 6b, the Resolution of Village of
Alsip, and a Department of Planning and Development staff report for your
information.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

 WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Real
Property Assessment Classification 6b that provides an applicant a reduction in
the assessment level for an industrial facility; and
WHEREAS, the County Board of Commissioners has received and reviewed an
application from Accord Carton Company (AJC Distribution LLC) and the
Resolution from Alsip for an abandoned industrial facility located at 6155 West
115th Street, Alsip, Cook County, Illinois, Property Index Number 24-20-301009-0000; and
WHEREAS, the Class 6b requires the validation by the County Board of the
shortened period of qualifying abandonment in cases where the industrial facility
has been abandoned for less than 24 consecutive months upon purchase; and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has determined that the
building was abandoned for 18 months at the time of purchase, and that special
circumstances are present.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Board of
Commissioners of the County of Cook, State of Illinois, that the President and
Board of Commissioners indicate their approval for the filing of an application for
a Cook County Real Estate Classification 6b abatement incentive to the
company for an abandoned industrial facility located at 6155 West 115th Street,
Alsip, Cook County, Illinois, under the provision for abandonment of less than 24
months; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution to the Office of the Cook
County Assessor.
*Referred to the Business & Economic Development Committee 09/21/04.
Commissioner Gorman, seconded by Vice Chairman Goslin, moved Approval of
Communication No. 267491. The motion carried.
Vice Chairman Goslin moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Commissioner
Gorman. The motion carried and the meeting was adjourned.

Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Business and Economic
Development

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Earlean Collins, Chairman

 Attest:


Michelle Harris, Secretary

