Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

100 East Erie Street
Chicago, IL 60611

Meeting Minutes
Annual Meeting

Commissioner Frank Avila, Commissioner Patricia Horton, Chairman of Finance Gloria
Alitto Majewski, Commissioner Barbara J. McGowan, Vice-President Kathleen Therese
Meany, Commissioner Cynthia M. Santos, Commissioner Debra Shore, Commissioner
Patricia Young, President Terrence J. O'Brien,
Tuesday, December 2, 2008

2:00 PM

Board Room

Call to Order
President O' Brien presiding, called the meeting to order at 2:10 p.m.

Roll Call
Present 9 - Frank Avila; Patricia Horton; Gloria Alitto Majewski; Barbara J. McGowan;
Kathleen Therese Meany; Cynthia M. Santos; Debra Shore; Patricia Young; and
Terrence J. O'Brien,

Clerk to Read the Call of the Meeting
08-2312

To the Honorable President and
Members of the Board of Commissioners
of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
of Greater Chicago
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago will be held on Tuesday, December
2, 2008 at 2:00 PM, in the Board Room, 100 East Erie Street, Chicago,
Illinois.
Installation of commissioners will occur at the Annual Meeting.
/s/ Jacqueline Torres
Clerk
A motion was made by Gloria Alitto Majewski, seconded by Barbara J. McGowan, that
this report be published and filed. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of
ayes-No nays
08-2443

President's Annual Message
A motion was made by the Board of Commissioners, seconded by the Board of
Commissioners, that this report be published and filed. Motion carried by
acclamation. Chorus of ayes-No nays

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 1

Printed on 12/3/2008

 Annual Meeting

Meeting Minutes

December 2, 2008

Installation of Commissioners
Clem Balanoff, Deputy Clerk of the Cook County Clerk's Office, presented the
Certificates of Election to the re-elected Commissioners, Frank Avila, Kathleen
Therese Meany and Cynthia Santos.
Following the presentation, the Honorable Edmund Ponce De Leon, Presiding Judge
-Fourth Municipal District Circuit Court of Cook County, administered the Oath of
Office to re-elected Commissioner Frank Avila, the Honorable Paul J. Nealis,
Associate Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Retired, administered the Oath
of Office to re-elected Commissioner Kathleen Therese Meany and the Honorable
Susan Ruscitti Grussel, Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, administerd the
Oath of Office to re-elected Commissioner Cynthia Santos.

Adjournment
A motion was made by Cynthia Santos, seconded by Patricia Horton, that today's
meeting be adjourned. The motion carried by acclamation. Chorus of ayes - No nays.
President O'Brien adjourned the meeting at 3:00 p.m.

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago

Page 2

Printed on 12/3/2008

 