MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS GAMING BOARD
December 5, 2000
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
NOTE: ITEMS IN BOLDFACE PRINT REFLECT OFFICIAL BOARD ACTIONS
The Illinois Gaming Board (“Board”) held its Regular Meeting on December 5, 2000 in the
Auditorium on the 5th floor of the State of Illinois Building, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
The following Board Members were present: Chairman Gregory C. Jones and Members
Sterling M. Ryder, Staci Yandle and Stuart P. Levine. Member Joseph Lamendella was not
present for the meeting.
Also in attendance were: Administrator Sergio E. Acosta, Deputy Administrators Joseph
Haughey, Allan S. McDonald, Thomas Swoik, and James W. Wagner, Deputy Chief Legal
Counsel Jeannette P. Tamayo, and other members of the staff.
Chairman Jones re-convened the December 4, 2000 Closed Session at 9:35 a.m. in the 3rd
floor Board Conference Room.
The Board convened its Open Session at 2:05 P.M.
Approval of Minutes

Member Ryder moved that the Board approve the Open Session Minutes for the
following meetings:
-

Regular Meeting of September 14 & 15, 2000
Special Meeting of October 4, 2000
Special Meeting of October 11, 2000
Regular Meeting of October 17, 2000
Special Meeting of November 15, 2000
Special Meeting of November 22, 2000

Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Member Ryder moved that all portions of the closed session minutes of the Illinois
Gaming Board from March 16, 2000 through and including May 16, 2000 for which
the need for confidentiality no longer exists, be made available for public inspection
in accordance with the Open Meetings Act. Member Yandle seconded the motion.
The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

 Chairman’s Report

Chairman Jones stated that the Board would circulate to the public and media a new
policy item, relating to the self-exclusion of problem gamblers. Chairman Jones stated
that the policy stemmed from the Problem Gambling Meeting held in May by the Gaming
Board. Chairman Jones stated that guest speakers at the meeting felt that the selfexclusion policy is a useful step in dealing with some problem gamblers, particularly if it
is coordinated with a treatment program and counseling. Chairman Jones welcomed any
comments by the media, public and casinos on the draft proposal, as the policy would be
up for discussion at the next Board meeting on January 30th 2001.
Board Policy Items

Member Levine moved that the board adopt the following dates for its regulatory
meeting agenda for the calendar year 2001.
January 30, 2001
February 27, 2001
March 20, 2001
April 17, 2001
May 15, 2001
June 19, 2001
July 17, 2001
September 18, 2001
October 16, 2001
December 4, 2001
Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
Chairman Jones stated that the Self-Exclusion policy is a matter that would not be
discussed at this meeting and asked Administrator Acosta if he had any comments on
how members of the public or media could obtain copies of the proposal.
Administrator Acosta stated that Mr. O’Shea, the Gaming Board’s Public Information
Officer, would prepare copies of the policy after the meeting and that copies would be
available in the lobby of the Gaming Board office on the 3rd floor. Mr. Acosta stated that
the policy would also be on the IGB website within the next day or two. Mr. Acosta
asked that if any of the licensees or interested parties have comments regarding the
proposed rule to contact the staff directly by telephone or submit comments in writing.

2

 Rulemaking- Hours of Alcohol Sales
Deputy Chief Legal Counsel, Jeannette P. Tamayo, stated that on the morning of the last
meeting on October 17th staff appeared before the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules
to seek approval of the second notice filing of amendments to Board Rule 3000.930. At that
time, the Board was proposing to adopt as the hours of alcohol sale 9:30 a.m. – 4:00 a.m.
Ms. Tamayo stated that Joint Committee on Administrative Rules objected to the rulemaking
because the Board increased the hours of authorized alcohol sales during first notice to such
an extent that the public’s welfare and safety would be endangered”. Ms. Tamayo stated that
the Joint Committee was in favor of the First Notice submission that was presented by the
Board. Ms. Tamayo also stated that having received an objection to that particular rule, the
Board now has three options and ninety days from October 17, 2000 to implement those
three options: (1) withdraw the rule and resubmit a new rule on First Notice; (2) modify its
original submission on Second Notice to the Joint Committee; (3) refuse to modify the rule,
notwithstanding the recommendation of JCAR. Ms. Tamayo recommended that the Board
consider modifying the rule to the same hours that staff proposed at the last meeting: 9:30
a.m. – 3:00 a.m.
Member Ryder asked Ms. Tamayo if there were any surrounding states that has a closing
alcohol sales hour prior to 4:00 a.m.
Ms. Tamayo informed Mr. Ryder that some of the casinos across the Missouri River,
which compete with Alton Belle, close at 3:00 a.m.
Member Ryder stated that the official JCAR correspondence indicated that JCAR was
under the misapprehension that the Board was actually extending the hours of liquor sales
by going to 4:00 a.m. from 3:00 a.m., which is furthest from the truth. He said that under
current law there are effectively no restrictions on riverboat alcohol sale hours. Member
Ryder stated that, in his view, it makes the most sense to go back to the original Board
proposal.
Chairman Jones stated that he was most surprised by the fact that when he looked through
the information that was provided by the Illinois Casino Gaming Association, the volume of
alcohol sales was very low between 3 and 4:00 a.m. in the morning. Chairman Jones stated
that it is not so much a business proposition to be able to make money on alcohol sales as it
is possibly a competitive disadvantage. Chairman Jones stated that 4:00 a.m. really makes
very little difference from 3:00 a.m. for alcohol sales to those individuals who are
legitimately concerned about people having drunk drivers on the road at that hour. Chairman
Jones asked Ms. Tamayo if any of the mayors of the different communities where the casinos
are located had any comments.
Ms. Tamayo stated that none of the mayors who submitted comments opposed the Board’s
recommendations, and in fact, stated that they had no problems with any of the casinos.

3

 Administrator Acosta stated that in fairness to the members of the public, licensees, and
everyone involved, the Board has been, over the course of the past year, all over the map.
Mr. Acosta stated that the Board first started with the proposal that it would be the local
hours applied to the licensees, then the Board went to the 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. proposal,
and then the to 9:30 to 4:00 a.m. proposal. Mr. Acosta stated that it’s possible that there was
a misimpression among JCAR, which may be in part due to some of the confusion that might
exist out there. Mr. Acosta also stated that there may have been some who thought that the
hours of alcohol sales were from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m., thinking therefore that the Board
action might have been viewed by them as an expansion of the hours. Mr. Acosta stated that
he thinks it’s important that the Board take a firm position as to its decision.

Based on the staff's recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the Board approve
the filing of the proposed rule 3000.930 as amended on Second Notice
notwithstanding the Joint Committee on Administrative Rules objection. Member
Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Member Ryder stated that he appreciated the Administrator’s diplomacy, and that
although the Board discussed many different hours, it did not adopt them. Member
Ryder stated that he was never happy or satisfied with any of the proposals, nor is he
entirely satisfied with the one adopted, but he stated that it’s better than what exist now.
Public Commentary
Bishop Joseph Sprague, with the United Methodist Church, was present to talk about
expansions of riverboat gambling. Bishop Sprague read sections of a letter that he and a
colleague wrote to the Governor after the Governor’s statements two weeks prior to election.
Bishop Sprague quoted the Governor saying that he would not support any expansions of
riverboat gambling. Bishop Sprague quoted statements made by Rosemont’s Mayor
Stephens in a recent letter printed in the Chicago Tribune stating that the school children in
Illinois have lost new text books, smaller classes, better trained teachers, and other
educational opportunities because the Rosemont casino is not yet a fact. Bishop Sprague
disagreed with the Mayor’s statement. Bishop Sprague stated that increased casino and
lottery profits does not mean increase funding for education. Bishop Sprague read a
statement from the 1996-1999 budget of the Illinois State Board of Education to support his
opinions. Bishop Sprague applauded the Gaming Board for the cautious approach taken
during the regulatory process for Emerald Casino.
Owner Licensee Items
CASINO QUEEN – Mr. Jeff Watson, General Counsel, was present on behalf of Casino
Queen to request initial consideration for Casino Queen’s business loan agreement. Mr.
Watson stated that Casino Queen is requesting that the Board waive the Two-Meeting Rule,
Board Rule 3000.105(e) in regards to the loan agreement. Mr. Watson asked that the Board

4

 take action on the business loan agreement and approve it at this Board meeting. Mr. Watson
stated that a final copy of the loan agreement was delivered to Mr. Allan McDonald and that
Casino Queen has worked closely with Mr. McDonald to resolve any issues.
Administrator Acosta stated that staff has no objections to the Board approving the
agreement; however, the issue before the Board is the waiver of the Two-Meeting Rule,
which is a matter entirely up to the discretion of the Board.
Chairman Jones asked Mr. Watson to explain briefly for the public record the purpose of the
waiver request.
Mr. Watson stated that the request for waiver came about due to the timing of Casino
Queen’s Board meetings and the Gaming Board’s regular meetings. Although the agreement
was in the process of negotiations, Casino Queen’s Board did not meet in October and the
Gaming Board did not meet in November. Had there been a November meeting, they would
have brought the matter up for initial consideration at that time. Mr. Robert Barrows, Chief
Financial Officer, briefly described the business loan agreement.
Member Ryder asked why it makes a difference if the Board acts on the request at today’s
meeting rather than at the next meeting.
Mr. Barrows stated that other than the million dollars, which is the cost to repay the debt,
there is no difference. He agreed that the transaction was a wash.
Member Ryder asked General Counsel Watson if the initial approval occurred in August,
why the issue didn’t come up during the Gaming Board’s October Board meeting.
Mr. Watson stated that his understanding was that the terms of the loan agreement were at a
negotiation phase so there was not a lot of detail to report to Casino Queen’s Board or for
them to take any action, even on an initial consideration basis. Mr. Watson stated that
Casino Queen has worked with Mr. McDonald and sought his guidance on how to avoid a
situation like this in the future.
Member Ryder questioned whether the terms of the agreement were now final.
Mr. Watson stated that the terms are final, and no further changes are anticipated. Mr.
Watson also stated that a final copy of the agreement has been sent to Mr. McDonald.

Member Yandle moved that the Board waive the requirements of Board Rule
3000.105(e) and permit Casino Queen to present for Board approval its request for
an amendment to its existing Bank of America $14 million senior secured reducing
revolving line of credit facility. Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.

5

 Based on the staff’s review and recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the Board
initially approve Casino Queen, Inc.’s request for this amendment and delegate to
the Administrator under Board Rule 3000.230(d)(2) final approval of the
transaction upon execution of the appropriate documents. Member Levine seconded
the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Chairman Jones expressed his hopes that Casino Queen will not have to submit such an
extraordinary request to the Board again.
Member Ryder stated that the fact that Casino Queen did get their notice to the Board,
and has been working with staff for over a month weighed in his consideration to vote in
favor of their request. Member Ryder stated that if Casino Queen is going attempt to
make a similar request, they are now warned to re-think numerous times a request to ask
the Board to disregard its own Two-Meeting Rule requirement.
HARRAH’S CASINO JOLIET – Karen Wosnack and Michael St. Pierre, General Manager
for Harrah’s, were present on behalf of Harrah’s to request initial consideration for a request
for Waiver of Riverboat and Board Surveillance Room Requirements. Ms. Wosnack stated
that Harrah’s is under-going certain construction that would require a partial waiver of Board
Rule 3008.10 that involves the location of the surveillance rooms.
Member Ryder asked Ms. Wosnack if she would be able to provide for the Gaming Board
staff diagrams and drawings so that they could see specifically where the new room would
be. Member Ryder also asked whether the number of surveillance rooms would be increased.
Ms. Wosnack stated that diagrams would be provided and offered that surveillance rooms
would be increased significantly. Ms. Wosnack further stated that Harrah’s would be in full
compliance with the Gaming Board Rules.
Member Ryder asked if the room would be on the barge or pavilion. Ms. Wosnack stated
that it would be on the pavilion, approximately 20 feet adjacent to the barge.
Member Ryder asked about the access from the surveillance room to the barge. Mr. St.
Pierre stated that, as the rule requires, the surveillance room would be concealed to the
general public with access limited to surveillance officers.
Chairman Jones clarified for the members of the public that Illinois Gaming Board Rule
3000.810 requires that the surveillance equipment be on the riverboat itself. Chairman Jones
stated that the waiver is being sought since dockside gaming provides other opportunities for
locating space for surveillance rooms. However, if cruising is again required, the issue could
be revisited.

6

 HOLLYWOOD CASINO AURORA – Ed Pratt, President of Hollywood Casino, and other
staff members were present on behalf of Hollywood to request license renewal.
Member Ryder questioned Hollywood’s projected revenues for the years 2001 and 2002.
Paul Yates, Hollywood’s Chief Financial Officer, stated that Hollywood has taken a
conservative approach and looked for modest growth out of its existing operations. Mr.
Yates stated that Hollywood has been finalizing plans to expand the facility, which will be
the catalyst for further growth. Mr. Yates added that Hollywood has a history of exceeding
its projections.
Member Ryder referred to Section 7(b) of the Riverboat Gambling Act regarding affirmative
action. Member Ryder stated that he was impressed with Hollywood’s report with respect to
minority hiring, even though, the data does not really reflect promotions. Member Ryder
asked Mr. Pratt if that data could be shared with Gaming Board staff.
Member Yandle requested data for minority and female promotions specifically.
Mr. Pratt stated that he would be more than happy to provide staff with the information.
Member Ryder referred to Gaming Board Rule 3000.1050 regarding credit. Member Ryder
questioned Hollywood’s credit practices with respect to the requirement to only issue credit
in a commercially reasonable manner. Member Ryder requested information to compare
Hollywood with other licensees to figure out why there are variations in the credit numbers.
Mr. Pratt stated that he would be more than happy to share that information. Mr. Pratt stated
that Hollywood is very prudent about their issuance of credit.
Chairman Jones asked Mr. Pratt what Hollywood was doing with respect to Self-Exclusion.
Pat Medchill, General Manager for Hollywood, stated that Hollywood has a full exclusion
program at the property, that allows investigating anyone who comes forward and identifies
himself or herself a compulsive gambler. Mr. Medchill stated that Hollywood does have a
Voluntary Eviction form for patrons who state that they have a gaming problem. The form is
circulated to other Illinois casinos. Mr. Medchill stated that when a patron asks to be evicted
from the property permanently, Hollywood never refuses that request.
Chairman Jones questioned the issue of signage with respect to problem gambling.
Mr. Medchill stated that signs are posted on all of the ATMs on the boat and that palm cards
are also posted throughout the property.

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the
Board approve the Owner's License of Hollywood Casino Aurora for a term of 4
years. Further, the Board designates as and approves the following Key Persons:

7

 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Hollywood Casino Corporation
Jack E. Pratt
Edward T. Pratt, Jr.
William D. Pratt
Edward T. Pratt III.
C.A. Pratt Partners, Ltd.

Member Yandle seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.
CASINO ROCK ISALND – Donna More was present on behalf of Casino Rock Island to
request final action on the Transfer of Ownership Interest.

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the
Board approve the transfer of ownership interest of 363 shares of Rock Island
BoatWorks, Inc. from D. James Jumer to be equally divided between James F.
Jumer, Sylvia M. Wicks and John A. Jumer, who have been previously approved as
key persons. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
PAR-A-DICE – Donna More was present on behalf of Par-A-Dice Casino to request
approval for Mr. Flint as a Level One Occupational Licensee.

Based on a review of the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine
moved that the Board approve Michael Flint as a Level 1 Occupational Licensee of
Par-A-Dice Gaming Corporation. Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board
approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Supplier Licensee Items
OSBORNE COINAGE COMPANY – Chief Financial Officer, Tom D’Agnillo, was
present on behalf of Osborne Coinage Company to request license renewal.
Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license of Osborne Coinage Company for a term of 4
years. Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion
unanimously by voice vote.
PDS FINANCIAL – Donna More and Kevin Schultz were present on behalf of PDS
Financial to request license renewal.

8

 Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Levine moved that the
Board approve the Supplier’s license of PDS Financial for a restricted term of one
year. In renewing this Supplier’s License, the Board orders the following:
1.

Within two (2) weeks of today’s date, PDS is to submit in
writing:
a. a verified explanation as to why PDS failed to timely
file its quarterly reports for the quarters ending
December, 1999, and March, 2000; and
b. The identity of the PDS staff member who submitted
the letter dated May 26, 2000, and verification of that
submission to the Board regarding PDS’ apology for
failing to timely file its quarterly reports.

2.

PDS shall submit timely reports and information to the Board and
shall comply fully with all Board requests during the period of its
license renewal.

Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote.
Disciplinary Complaints
Member Levine moved that the Board issue a Disciplinary Complaint against Olivia
Marie Heard and revoke her Level 3 Occupational License for failing to comply with
the Act and Board Rules in relation to her arrest and conviction for theft arising from
an incident that occurred at the Casino Queen on November 6, 1998. Member Yandle
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Administrative Hearing/ALJ Report

Member Ryder moved that the Board deny the request for hearing submitted by Paul
M. Czech for failure to provide a prima facie basis for his hearing request and for
failure to meet the requirements of Board Rule 3000.1125 in his hearing request.
Member Levine seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by
voice vote.

Occupational Licensees

Based on the staff's investigation and recommendation, Member Yandle moved that the
Board approve 221 applications for an Occupational License Level 2, and 568

9

 applications for an Occupational License Level 3, and deny 1 applications for an
Occupational License Level 2, and 3 for an Occupational License Level 3.
Member Yandle further moved that, the Board direct the Administrator to contact
13 pending applicants for occupational licenses to notify those applicants that staff
has recommended that the Board deny their applications for an occupational license
and provide these applicants with an opportunity to respond. Member Ryder
seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice vote.
Pursuant to Section 2 (c), paragraph (11), (14) and (21) of the Open Meetings Act and
Section 6(d) of the Riverboat Gambling Act, Member Levine moved that the Board retire
to Closed Session to discuss the following subject matters:
1. Pending litigation and matters involving probable litigation;
2. Investigations concerning applicants and licensees.
Member Ryder seconded the motion. The Board approved the motion unanimously by voice
vote. At 3:20 P.M., the Board retired to Closed Session. The Board adjourned at 5:02 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Monica Thomas
Secretary to the Board

10

 