Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
May 15th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Juan M. Calderon
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
May 15th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:04 am by Board President, Dr. Carolyn Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: Quorum was present and April Minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner, Dr. Julie Morita, provided the following updates:
Commissioner Transition Update: As I prepare for my next chapter at the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation, I am deeply committed to ensuring that the CDPH commissioner transition is as smooth as
possible. I have already met with Mayor-elect Lightfoot and her transition team. In these conversations,
I've provided an overview of our department, who we are and the work we do to promote health and
equity in Chicago – and I have been heartened by the team’s strong expressions of support for CDPH’s
vision. I've also shared my thoughts on the qualifications, experience and values I would want CDPH's next
commissioner to possess. The Mayor-elect recognizes the importance of continuity of government to limit
disruption in services. We expect to have more information to share about leadership decisions soon.
Community Health Assessment (CHA): CDPH and the Partnership for Healthy Chicago have completed the
foundational assessments for our CHA. Last Friday, the Partnership reviewed the findings, including data
along with input from community members and public health system representatives, and began to
identify priority issues for our next plan. Later this month CDPH will host meetings in North Lawndale,
Humboldt Park and Woodlawn – each organized by a local community group – to get resident feedback
on the priority areas. Then CDPH will work with the Lightfoot administration to secure their support for
the direction of our Healthy Chicago 2025 implementation plan, to be developed over the summer.
Other Tobacco Products Youth Campaign: Last month, the CDPH Tobacco team launched their Other
Tobacco Products (OTP) youth campaign to raise awareness on the dangers of using OTPs. The campaign
will help youth recognize that tobacco use – in any form – is harmful, unsafe, and can lead to nicotine
addiction among other serious health consequences. The campaign featured "Lunchroom
Takeovers" where college-aged youth visited four targeted local high schools to talk to students
about the dangers of using OTPs. The ambassadors also distributed educational information. Over 1,100
students were in attendance.
NACCHO's Preparedness Summit: The CDPH Preparedness and Emergency Response team presented
recently at the National Association of County and City Health Officials' (NACCHO) Preparedness Summit.
The NACCHO Preparedness Summit is the premier public health preparedness conference in the country.
CDPH presenters discussed the role the department played in supporting the City's Hurricane Resource
Center in Humboldt Park after Hurricane Maria. CDPH presenters highlighted efforts in 2017 and 2018 to
connect displaced Puerto Rican residents to health services in Chicago including: primary care referrals,
mental health referrals, prescription replacements, vaccination records, and other services. The CDPH
response was part of larger citywide effort. In total 1,113 CDPH staff hours were dedicated to the
response and also included CDPH's private sector partners from the Chicago Healthcare System Coalition.
Getting to Zero: CDPH joined Governor JB Pritzker, the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH), and
the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) at a press conference in Springfield to introduce the Getting to Zero
Illinois (GTZ-IL) five-year comprehensive plan that details actions to end the HIV epidemic in Illinois by
2030. As part of the Getting to Zero Illinois collaboration, the plan includes goals and strategies that will
reduce new HIV transmissions, support the health of people living with HIV and AIDS, and help Chicago
and Illinois get to “functional zero,” a point where the HIV epidemic can no longer sustain itself.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
May 15th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604

Family Connects: The Coordinated Perinatal Referral Task Force, a working group of the Early Learning
Executive Council, celebrated its final convening in April. This group of dedicated stakeholders provided
thoughtful guidance and direction to CDPH on the rollout of the Family Connects pilot. Family Connects is
an evidenced-based, universal approach to supporting newborns and their families. The program
provides between one and three nurse home visits to every family with a newborn beginning at about
three weeks of age, regardless of income or demographic risk. Using a tested screening tool, the nurse
measures newborn and maternal health and assesses strengths and needs to link the family to community
resources. In partnership with a select number of Chicago birthing hospitals, CDPH will pilot and evaluate
Family Connects beginning in late spring 2019 in preparation for full roll-out to all 19 birthing hospitals
over the next several years.
Opioid Epidemic: As part of CDPH’s public outreach efforts, Dr. Allison Arwady, chief medical officer for
CDPH, appeared in a televised interview on ABC 7 Chicago to discuss the opioid epidemic facing the City of
Chicago. CDPH also participated in an Emergency Meeting to Confront the Heroin Overdose Crisis
convened by US Congressman Danny Davis and Illinois State Representative La Shawn Ford. CDPH joined
a coalition of health care providers and community organizations to discuss the department’s efforts in
helping address the opioid epidemic.
Reaccreditation Update: CDPH's virtual site visit with the Public Health Accreditation Board
(PHAB) reviewers was held in April. Thirty-one staff from across the department participated, answering
questions from the reviewers and talking about the great work taking place at CDPH. The reviewers were
particularly impressed by our culture of quality improvement, as well as our commitment to community
engagement, health equity, and addressing the social determinants of health. The PHAB board will meet
in June to vote on our accreditation status after reviewing and discussing the findings from the site review
team. We anticipate hearing back from them in mid- to late-June. Special thanks to Kirsti Bocskay,
Director of Performance Improvement.
CDPH Staff Development, Training and Professional Opportunities: In our efforts to build morale,
empower collaboration, and raise awareness of how to create welcoming and inclusive workplaces across
our teams, and also the communities we serve, CDPH provides ongoing training and professional
development opportunities. These include:
All Staff Development Conference: All CDPH team members participate in a full day of professional
development and skill building. The most recent conference focused on health equity, cultural
competency and trauma-informed practices.
Health Equity Training: CDPH staff is required to participate in an Introduction to Health Equity training
that covers the basic definition of health equity, the current and historical equity issues in Chicago, and
how programs address equity through their work.
Undoing Racist Systems Training: CDPH partnered with the People’s Institute for Survival & Beyond, one
of the nation’s foremost anti-racism training groups, to host a series of in-service workshops for our staff
and delegate agencies on how to address systemic racism in the workplace and community. To date,
more than 400 CDPH staff and community partners have participated in these grant-funded training
opportunities.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
May 15th, 2019
Department of Public Health, DePaul Center Boardroom
333 S. State Suite 200 Chicago, IL 60604
Cultural Leadership Team: CDPH staff from across the entire department, representing all teams, work to
develop policies and practices that support cultural competency, awareness, and sensitivity.
40 Under 40 in Public Health List: Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH) staff Megan Cunningham,
Managing Deputy Commissioner, and Jesse Lava, Director of Policy, were recognized today by the de
Beaumont Foundation as two of the inaugural honorees of the 40 Under 40 in Public Health list.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez announces Dr. Morita’s farewell celebration and invited board
st
members to attend, on Friday, May 31 from 4:00PM-6:00PM at the Chicago Community Trust. Dr. Lopez
welcomed the audience and provided an overview of the Board of Health’s role. Dr. Lopez also updated the board
on the recent Partnership for Healthy Chicago sessions, and was excited to mention that CDPH had provided
extraordinary data to members. She explained that during CDPH’s data presentation, she was introduced to the
issues relating to the lack of internet access in certain parts of Chicago and provided a brief summary to the board,
indicating: “based on the data presented, the city has pockets of areas with no internet access.” This reminded her
of the University of Chicago’s ECHO program based on the city’s south side at a FQHC site, where on one occasion
Mayor Rahm Emanuel, during his 1st term, could not access the Internet while visiting; and afterwards was able to
fix it quickly at that location. Dr. Lopez raised the question “What is the AT&T plan to give access to the entire
city,” and emphasized how it is important to highlight data to companies. Members brought up the Health in All
policies and how it may be applied to the licensing of companies in the city that provide Internet services. The
board agreed that this situation highlights the equity issue in the city, and how the inability to access the Internet
may cause major disadvantages in getting better healthcare. She encouraged members to attend other
partnership sessions in the future. Dr. Lopez also informed the board that there will be a presentation at the June
meeting which will provide an overview of this data.
Comments from Board: Dr. Evans mentioned a scooter accident in Chicago and asked if there is more being done
in relation to safety for riders in Chicago. Dr. Morita highlighted CDPH’s partnership with CDOT and the Vision Zero
plan, and referenced it was a great application of the Health in All policies, in relation to seeking and maintaining
data on traffic accidents to inform residents of dangers. The entire board congratulated Dr. Morita for her for her
many years of dedication and service, as this would be her final board meeting as CDPH commissioner.
Presentation: “Healthcare Associated Infections - Containment and Prevention” presented by Massimo Pacilli,
Manager of Quality Assurance, Chicago Department of Public Health.
Old Business:


Policy Resolutions: The board deferred to the June meeting for further review.

New Business:


The board was informed that they are full compliance with Cook County’s ethics filings and was reminded
to also complete their financial interest statements with the City of Chicago as soon as possible.

Public Comments: None
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:20AM.

 