MEETING MINUTES OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH CARE TASK FORCE
April 19, 2016
118 N. Clark St., 4th Floor Conference Room
I. Call to Order and Introductions
Attendees: Teresa Berumen, Linda Coronado, Michelle Garcia, Steven Glass, Kathleen Gregory, Sandy
Kraiss, John Keller, Diane Limas, Andrea Munoz, Dr. Linda Rae Murray, Luvia Quinones, Sendy Soto,
John Squeo, Dan Rabbitt
On the Phone: Venoncia Bate, Commissioner Chuy Garcia, Mireya Vera, Meghan Woltman
II. All Kids Program Update
Conversation about community advocates and government officials urging the extension of the All Kids
program in State legislation.
III. HC3 Policy Proposal (attachment)
Discussion about the definition of a direct access health program. Goals would include: providing a
medical home, basic care coordination, access to the broad array of services provided by CCHHS,
including specialty care, and behavioral health, as well as providing interpretation services and
predictable and affordable costs to enrollees.
Discussion about the current Care Link program through CCHHS and the Access to Care program.
IV. Open Meetings Act
Discussion about the Open Meetings Act compliance and regulations. Since the Cook County Health Care
Task Force is voluntarily compiling with the Open Meetings Act the conversation focused on compliance
requirements including official training of all members.
V. Issue Updates
Barriers
Identified many barriers, including: deaf and hard of hearing, ASL, ADA compliance, ADA education,
transportation access, waiting time, translator materials, immigration status, unemployment, mental
disorders, disabilities, no identification.
Data/IT
Discussion about the current CCHHS enrollment system. Conversation about the Healthy San Francisco
IT system as an example.

 Finance/Reimbursements
Discussion about working to identify key factors of initial financial structure for proposed policy
recommendations.
Partnerships/Existing Programs
This subcommittee is reviewing a gap analysis and sliding fee scales. It is currently reviewing data needs
to help develop a larger proposal.
IX. Public Registered Speakers
One public registered speakers: Judy Haais, Community Health

 