COMPLIANCE PROGRAM HOT LINE CHARTER
SUMMARY DOCUMENT





Supports effective lines of communication, an essential element of a compliance
program
Provides a confidential mechanism for workforce members to report concerns and
allows reporters to remain anonymous
Compels the Corporate Compliance Program to promptly and properly address and
resolve compliance concerns brought to their attention.

Adoption:
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors on 06/08/2010

 Category:

CCH SYSTEM WIDE
Subject:
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE

Title:

COMPLIANCE PROGRAM HOT LINE CHARTER

Page

Policy #:

Approval Date:

Posting Date:

1 of 2

CC.

PURPOSE
A primary function of the Corporate Compliance Program is to ensure that workforce members have an outlet to report
problems and concerns if other processes are ineffective or inappropriate. The Corporate Compliance Hot Line is one
mechanism to allow workforce members to report concerns confidentially, reporters may remain anonymous, thereby
avoiding potential retaliation.
To support effective lines of communication, a hot line should be available to all workforce members 24/7 with both
telephonic and electronic access; information about accessing the hot line should be conspicuously posted.
Matters reported through the hot line or other communication sources that suggest substantial violations of compliance
policies, regulations, or statutes should be documented and investigated promptly to determine their veracity.
Cook County Health (CCH) has established and will maintain a Corporate Compliance Hot line function that meets
the following terms:
A. The Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer or designee is charged with ensuring that all issues reported to the
Corporate Compliance Hot Line via telephone calls, via the online reporting method, or via other
communication methods shall be acted upon in a timely fashion as required by CCH policies and
procedures.
B. All those who contact the hot line operation shall be assured anonymity, or in the case where the contact
identifies themselves, confidentiality.
C. All those who are employed and involved in the hot line operation are expected to act with utmost discretion
and integrity in ensuring that information received is acted upon in a reasonable and proper manner.
D. The Office of Corporate Compliance individuals responsible for hot line operations and in collaboration with
other CCH departments, including but not limited to Human Resources and General Counsel, will maintain
complete and accurate records of information received, and will also take all appropriate steps to avoid
compromising those with whom they are in communication.
E. All information identifying hot line reports, or information which could lead to the identification of reporters or
correspondents to the hot line operation, will be expunged once record retention requirements are met.
F. The Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer or designee shall have the responsibility, autonomy, authority and
necessary resources to ensure that all compliance issues and concerns reported to the hot line operation
are promptly and appropriately addressed and resolved.
G. The Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer or designee shall communicate any matter deemed potentially
illegal to the office of the CCH General Counsel.
H. The Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer or designee has the responsibility and authority to ensure that any
matter requiring external reporting to grant funders, regulatory or law enforcement agencies is properly
disclosed.
I.

The Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer or designee has the responsibility and authority to bring such an
issue to the attention of the senior executives in cases where, in his or her good-faith judgment, it is
appropriate to do so.

 Title:

COMPLIANCE PROGRAM HOT LINE CHARTER
REVIEW HISTORY:
Initial Adoption:
Request Approval:

Page
2 of 2

Policy #
CC.

06/08/20101
06/20/2019

Initial adoption by the Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health on
Tuesday, June 8, 2010 at the hour of 9:30 A.M., at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, 1901 W. Harrison
Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois.

1

 