WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD
June 19, 2019

B.- Approval of the minutes of the May 15, 2019 meeting

MINUTES
WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday. May 15, 2019 9:00 A.M.
Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI, 48226.

Roll Call 9:03 AM.
Carron L. Pinkins (C) - Present
Edward McCall Thomas (VC) - Present
Sandra Bucciero - EDS (9:14)
Sue C. Carnell - Present
Mona Hammoud - Present
Freman Hendrix - 
- Robert P. Young - - Present 

Board members Bucciero B. and Hendrix were
not present to vote on items B. 0.1 and 2. 

Young/Thomas Approved. The minutes from the May 1, 2019
meeting. Motion Carried.

Unfinished Business

YoungIThomas Dimissed. Communication from Fred Archie,
re: a Sheriff?s Office employee. Motion Carried.

Mr. Avery Williams, Ethics Board Attorney,
stated a notarized complaint form was not filed.

Hammoudffhomas Dimissed. Communication from Ray Joseph,
re: a Friend of the Court employee. Motion
Carried.

Mr. Williams stated a notarized complaint form
was not filed.

Hearing on the complaint by County Executive
Warren C. Evans against County Treasurer
Eric Sabree.

Mr. Joseph Slezak, Legislative Research
Analyst, was instructed Commission by the

Chair to read a letter from Mr. Evans, who was
not present.

Mr. Sabree and his attorney, Philip J. Thomas,
were present. Mr. Thomas spoke to the board
and answered questions, and called two
witnesses: Mr. Sabree and Marty Spa'ulding,
who answered questions from board members.

The hearing was stopped for a recess at 10:45
am. and resumed at 11:02 am.

Mr. Thomas requested a motion to dismiss Mr.
Evans? complaintvwithout prejudice.

Young/Hammoud Approved. A motiOn to? deny Mr. Thomas
- request. Motion Carried.

Board member Thomas abstained.

Mr. Pinkins stated at 12:00 pm. that the
hearing should be halted and resumed at the
next meeting.

Hendrix/Thomas Approved. Continue the hearing so that Mr.
Spaulding could be called as a witness
because of the distance he traveled. Motion
Carried.

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Committee

The hearing will be continued at the next Ethics Board meeting at 9:00 am.
Wednesday, June 19, 2019.

Mr. Slezak informed the board that the contract modification for Williams Acosta,
PLLC, for Mr. Williams? services to the Ethics Board was approved by the
Commission?s Committee on Government Operations and will go before the full
Commission on May 16, 2019 for final consideration.

Mr. Pinkins informed the board that he spoke with Commission Chair Alisha Bell
about designating money to the Ethics Board to conduct investigations as
needed. He said that she is looking into designating funds at some point.

Public Comments

Written public comments were submitted before the meeting by Maureen Taylor,
Tahira Hassanein Khalid, Stephanie Harbin and A. Karriem Muhammad. Spoken
public comments were provided by Sylvia Orduno, Joshua Van Berkum, Beverly
Kindle?Walker, Maureen Taylor, Katrina Muhammad, Sharon Anderson, Mitchell
Shamsud-Din (who also provided written comments) and Denise Kennedy.

F. Thomas/Hammoud Adjournment: 12:42 PM.

Respectfully submitted,
Darcel Brown 
?Legislative Research Assistant

Hlerown/TPmin Ma'y'l'5l.doc

A.

B.

Note 1:
Note 2:

Note 3:

Magma an'untg EEthfta ignore

Carron L. Pinkins - Chair

Edward McCall Thomas - Vice-Chair
Sandra Bucciero

Sue C. Carneli

Mona Hammond

Freman Hendrix

Robert P. Young

The Guardian Building
500 Griswold Suite 861
Detroit. Mi 43226
Phone: 313-224-0993
Fax: 313224-7484

wcelhics@waynecounty.com

 

NOTICE OF MEETING
OF THE

WAYNE COUNTY ETHICS BOARD

Wednesday, May 15," 2019 - e:oo a.m.

Hearing Room 704, Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226 at

The Wayne County Ethics Board has scheduled a meeting of the Board on Wednesday, May 15,
2019 at 9:00 am. in Hearing Room 704. Guardian Building, 500 Griswold, Detroit, Mi 48226 to consider
the following:

Roll Call

Approval of the minutes of the May 1, 2019 meeting

Unfinished Business

Communication from Fred Archie, re: a Sheriff?s Office employee

Communication from Ray Joseph, re: a Friend of the Court employee

Hearing on the complaint by County Executive Warren G. Evans against County Treasurer Eric

Sabree

This meeting is called in accordance with provisions of the "Open Meetings Act". Act No. 26?, Public Acts of 19m. 
In accordance with the provisions of Rule "The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making such
request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda, Such address shall not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson. subject to the approval of

the Committee"

In accordance with the provisions of Rute a.

?The Chairperson of a Committee. when requested in advance of any given meeting, may permit a person making such

request to address the Committee on any matter on the Agenda. Such address shalt not be longer than the time allotted by the Chairperson. subject to the approve! of

the Committee".

 

Such other matters as may be properly submitted before the Board
Public Comments
Written public comment has been received from Maureen Taylor.

Adjournment

 

