Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Human Relations Committee
Wednesday, June 26, 2019

10:05 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-4196
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 04/24/2019
19-3462
Sponsored by: KEVIN B. MORRISON, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

HUMAN RIGHTS ORDINANCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that CHAPTER 42 HUMAN
RELATIONS, ARTICLE II - HUMAN RIGHTS, Section 42-37 of the Cook County Code is hereby

Page 1 of 3

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

June 26, 2019

amended as Follows:
Sec. 42-37. - Public accommodations

(a) Prohibition. No person that owns, leases, rents, operates, manages, or in any manner controls
a public accommodation in Cook County shall withhold curtail, limit, or discriminate concerning the full
use of such public accommodation by any individual on the basis of unlawful discrimination.
(b) Exceptions.
(1) The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to sex discrimination in any of the
following:
a. Distinctly private facility. Any facility that is distinctly private in nature, such as rest rooms,
shower rooms, bath houses, dressing rooms, or health clubs.
b. Sleeping rooms. Any facility that restricts rental of residential or sleeping rooms to
individuals of one sex.
c. Educational institutions. Any educational institution that restricts enrollment of students to
individuals of one sex.
d. Determination of sex or gender. For the purposes of the exceptions set forth in Section 4237(b)(1)a through c, the determination of an individual's sex or gender shall be based upon the
sex or gender of that individual as reflected on any official identification of that individual
recognized by the State of Illinois, including a driver's license or state identification card “sex”
includes both biological category and gender identity. Each person determines their own
gender identity; no proof of an individual’s sex or gender shall be required except for the
person’s expression of their own gender.
(2) The Cook County Commission on Human Rights ("Commission") as defined in Section 42-34
shall adopt rules specifying any additional exceptions to the prohibition contained in this section
based on bona fide considerations of public policy.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.
Legislative History :

5/23/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Human Relations Committee

Page 2 of 3

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Deer
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin

Page 3 of 3

June 26, 2019

 