REGISTRATION IS OPEN:

ILLINOIS SUMMIT ON ANTIMICROBIAL STEWARDSHIP
Thursday, July 18, 2019
8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
University of Illinois at Chicago Student Center East
750 S Halsted Street, Chicago, IL 60607
Registration Information
The registration fee is $40.50 for all participants and covers light breakfast and lunch. Please register for the
summit by visiting: https://stewardshipsummit2019.eventbrite.com
Space is limited so we encourage early registration. If your plans change, you may cancel by Friday, July 5,
2019 to receive a full refund. No refunds will be given after this date.
Hotel Arrangements
As a courtesy, a limited number of rooms have been blocked at Crown Plaza Chicago West Loop ($183 per
night plus taxes) and the Holiday Inn & Suites Chicago-Downtown ($169 per night plus taxes) until June 19,
2019 on a first come, first serve basis. Please contact the hotel directly to reserve your overnight
accommodations.
Target Audience
Health care professionals including physicians, pharmacists, dentists, nurses, quality directors, infection
preventionists, facility leadership, and public health professionals across inpatient, outpatient, and long-term
care settings.
Objectives
Upon completion of this activity, participants will be able to:
• Summarize the regulatory and national landscape for antimicrobial stewardship
• Apply national guidelines and best practices for implementing and evaluating facility antimicrobial stewardship
•
•

programs
Review past successful antimicrobial stewardship programs and lessons learned
Identify tools and resources for implementing antimicrobial stewardship programs

View the preliminary agenda here.
Provided by:

 CME/CE Credit Provided by AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare. This activity is
jointly-provided by AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare and Hektoen Institute, LLC.
Physicians
This activity has been planned and implemented in accordance with the Essential Areas and policies of the Accreditation
Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) through the joint providership of AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in
Healthcare and Hektoen Institute, LLC. AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare is accredited by the Accreditation
Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education for Physicians.
AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare designates this live activity for a maximum of 6.5 AMA PRA Category 1
Credit(s)™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity.
Physician Assistants
NCCPA accepts AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™ from organizations accredited by ACCME.
Nursing
AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare is accredited as a provider of continuing nursing education by the American
Nurses Credentialing Center’s Commission on Accreditation.
This activity is awarded 6.5 contact hours.
Nurse Practitioners

This activity has been planned and implemented in accordance
with the accreditation Standards of the American Association of
Nurse Practitioners (AANP) through the joint providership of
AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare and Medical
Resource Association.

AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare is accredited by the American Association of Nurse Practitioners as an
approved provider of nurse practitioner continuing education. Provider Number: 030803.
This activity is approved for 6.5 contact hours which includes X hour(s) of pharmacology. Activity ID #219110.
Pharmacy

AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy
Education as a provider of continuing pharmacy education.
AKH Inc., Advancing Knowledge in Healthcare approves this knowledge-based activity for 6.5 contact hours
(0.65 CEUs). UAN 0077-9999-19-032-L04-P. Initial release date: 7/18/2019.

Criteria for Success
Statements of credit will be awarded based on the participant’s attendance and submission of the activity evaluation
form. A link to the online claim credit and evaluation form will be provided at the meeting. If you have any questions
about this CME/CE activity, please contact AKH Inc. at jgoldman@akhcme.com.

 This program is not yet approved for dental continuing education credit. Organizers have requested 6.5 hours of CE
credit from the Illinois Department of Public Health’s Division of Oral Health.

Questions?
Contact the Illinois Department of Public Health’s Division of Patient Safety and Quality at
DPH.DPSQ@Illinois.gov

Funding for this conference was made possible by IDPH and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The views expressed in written conference materials or publications and by speakers and moderators do not
necessarily reflect the official policies of the Department of Health and Human Services, nor does the mention
of trade names, commercial practices or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.

 