 

Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Human Relations Committee

11:15 AM
Wednesday, April 24, 2019 Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE
Present: Deer, Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (7)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in accordance
with Cook County Code.



Terry Clemans National Consumer Reporting Association
Mark Chicago Urban Fine Arts Commonwealth
Gary Glucroft National Consumer Reporting Association
Sarah Ware Illinois Realtors

King Harris Metropolitan Planning Council

George Blakemore Chicago, Illinois

Marie Claire Center

Troy O?Quin Homewood, Illinois

Camille O?Quin Homewood, Illinois

. Nancy Firfer Metripolitan Planning Council

. Willette Benford Chicago Area Fair Housing Alliance (CAFHA)
. Ronti GhoshApna Ghar Inc

. Taft W. West Chicago Community Loan Fund

. Charles PerryWestside Health Authority

. Stephanie Schmits Bechteler Chicago Urban League

. A. Anne Holcomb Chicago, [Illinois

. Ahmadou Drame Safer Foundation

. Yolanda LindseyCAFHA

. Jacqueline PerryWestside Health Authority

. Rachel Contos Alliance to End Homelessness

. Maria 

. Kate Walehriver Center

. Patricia Fron CAFHA

. Vince Heneghan Impact Behavioral Health Partners

. Mike Glasser Neighborhood Building Owners Alliance
. Lacey Williams Chicagoland Apartment Association

27. Michael Mini Chicagoland Apartment Association

28. Leslie Helmcamp Strengthening Chicago?s Youth

29. Tyrone Muhammad Ex-Cons for Community and Social Change
30. Robert R. McKay Illinois Grassroots Coalition-Chicago

31. SOphia O?Quin, Abigail O?Quin Homewood, Illinois

19-2925

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 03/19/2019

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Johnson, to
approve 19-2925. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer, Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (7)

19-2394

Sponsored by: BRANDON JOHNSON, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, ALMA

E. ANAYA, DEBORAH SIMS, DONNA MILLER, LUIS ARROYO JR, STANLEY MOORE and
BILL LOWRY, Cook County Board Of Commissioners

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 42 Human Relations,
Section 42-38, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 42-38. - Housing.

Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Conviction means a iudgment of liability entered upon a plea, verdict or finding of guilt for an
offense, rendered by a legally constituted iurv, court or administrative authority of competent iurisdiction.
Conviction excludes any ?iuvenile record" as de?ned below.

Covered criminal history means information regarding an individual?s arrest, charge or citation for
an offense; participation in a diversion or deferral of iudgment program; record of an offense that has
been sealed, expunged. or pardoned in accordance with applicable law: iuvenile record; and conviction.

Evidence afreliabifirarion means any information produced by the z'ndividuai, or produced on their
behalf, with respect to their rehabilitation or good conduct. including but not limited to: the individual?s
satisfactory compliance with all terms and conditions of his or her sentence; employer recommendations;
educational attainment or vocational or professional training since the conviction: completion or active
participation in rehabilitative treatment; and letters of recommendation from community organizations,
counselors or case managers, teachers, community leaders. religious institutions or leaders, or
parole/probation officers who have observed the individual since his or her conviction.

Individualized assessment means a process by which a person considers all factors relevant to an

individual?s conviction history and whether that history negatively impacts his or her ability to ful?ll the
responsibilities of tenancy, including but not limited to:

l) The nature, severity, and recency of the conduct underlying the individual?s specific conviction(s);
(2) The nature ofthe individual?s sentencing;

(3) The number of the individual?s convictions;

(4) The length oftime that has passed following the individual?s most recent conviction;

(5) The age of the individual at the time of the most recent conviction:

(6) Evidence of rehabilitation

(7) The individual?s tenant history before and/or after the conviction;

(8) The extent to which the individual has been open, honest, and cooperative in the examination of
his or her prior convictions

Juvenile record means any information regarding an offense committed or alleged to have been
committed by an individual who was under eighteen (18) years of age at the time of the offense or alleged
offense.

Of?ense means a violation of any penal statute. Ordinance, law, or code of any iurisdiction.

Person shall mean any person as de?ned in Section 46-31(15) of this article that is also an owner,
lessor, sublessor, assignor, managing agent, or other individual, ?rm, or corporation having the right to sell,
rent, lease, or sublease any housing unit within Cook County, or any agent, broker, or other individual
working on behalfof any such individual, firm, or corporation.

Real estate transaction means the sale, exchange, rental, occupancy, lease, sublease, or lease
renewal of real property for residential purposes in Cook County or the provision of services or utilities in
connection with such sale, exchange, rental, occupancy, lease, sublease, or lease renewal. The term "real
estate transaction? also means with respect to activity conducted or property located in Cook County, the
brokering or appraising of residential real property in Cook County and the making, purchasing, or
guaranteeing of loans or mortgages or providing any other financial assistance either:

(1) For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or

(2) Secured by residential real property.

Prohibitions.

1) Terms and conditions. No person shall make any distinction, discrimination, or restriction in the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any real estate transaction, including the decision to
engage in or renew any real estate transaction, on the basis of unlawful discrimination or covered

criminal history.

(2) Discriminatoiy communications. No person shall publish, circulate, issue, or display, or cause to
be published, circulated, issued, or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign or

other writing of any kind relating to a real estate transaction which will indicate or express any
unlawful limitation or discrimination on the basis of unlawful discrimination 01' covered criminal

history.

(3) Listings. No person shall deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of any listing of
residential real property within Cook County to any individual because of unlawful discrimination_
or covered criminal history.

(4) Representations. No person shall deliberately and knowingly represent to an individual that
residential real property is not available for inspection, sale, rental, or lease in Cook County when in fact it is
available, or fail to bring a residential real estate listing in Cook County to an
individual's attention, or refuse to permit a person to inspect residential real property in Cook

County because of unlawful discrimination or covered criminal history.

(5) Biqckbusting. No person shall solicit, for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease, residential real
property within Cook County on the grounds of loss of value due to the present or prospective
entry into any neighborhood of any any particular race, color, sex,
age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental

status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status, or with any
covered criminal history.

(6) Encouragement qulockbusting. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed written
material or statements designed to induce any owner of residential real property in Cook County
to sell or lease such owner's property because of any prospective change in the race, color, sex,
age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status,
military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status of individuals in the

neighborhood. or because of the presence or prospective entry into the neighborhood of any
individual(s) with any covered criminal history.

(7) Creating alarm. No person shall intentionally create alarm among residents of any community
within Cook County by transmitting communication in any manner, including a telephone call
whether or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any person within Cook
County to sell or lease the person's residential real property within Cook County because of the
present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property of any 
with any covered criminal history or of any particular race, color, sex, age, religion, disability,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status.

(8) Preemptive inquiries. No person shall inquire about, consider, or require disclosure of covered
criminal history when considering an application for admission to, or continuing occupancy of,
residential real property until the individual has been determined quali?ed for admission to, or
continuing occupancy of, residential real property and a conditional offer of admission to, or
continued occupancy of. residential real property has been made to the individual.

Exceptions. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any of the following:

(1) Age. Restricting rental or sale ofa housing accommodation to an individual ofa certain age
group:

a. When such housing accommodation is authorized, approved, ?nanced, or subsidized in whole
or in part for the benefit of that age group by a unit of State, local, or Federal government; or

b. When the duly recorded initial declaration ofa condominium or community association limits
such housing accommodations to individuals 50 years of age or older, provided that an individual or
members ofthe household of an individual owning or renting a unit in such housing accommodation prior to
the recording of the initial declaration shall not be deemed to be in violation of the age restriction as long as
the individual or household member continues to own or reside in the housing accommodation.

(2) Religion. Limitation by a religious organization, association, or society, or any not-for-profit
institution or organization operated, supervised, 01' controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society, of the sale, rental, or occupancy of a dwelling which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to individuals of the same religion, or from
giving preference to such individuals.

(3) Single sex. Restricting the rental of rooms in a housing accommodation to individuals of one sex.
The determination of an individual?s sex or gender shall be based upon the sex or gender of that
individual as re?ected on any of?cial identification of that individual recognized by the State,
including a driver's license or State identification card.

(4) Private rooms. Rental of a room or rooms in a private home by an owner if the owner or a
member ofthe owner's family resides therein or, while absent for a period of not more than 12
months, if the owner or a member of the owner's family intends to return to reside therein.

(5) Non?discriminatory interest. Denying the admission to or continuing occupancy of residential

real property on the basis of a current sex offender registration requirement pursuant to the Sex

Offender Registration Act or similar law in another iurisdiction): a current child sex offender

residency restriction; or a criminal conviction, provided that reliance on the criminal conviction is
necessary to protect against a demonstrable risk to personal safety and/or property of others
affected by the transaction. The Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall promulgate
rules to enforce this exception.

(6) Applicable law. Denying the admission to or continuing occupancy of residential real property on
the basis of covered criminal history when admission or continued occupancy would violate state
or federal law.
Sexual harassment.

(I) No person shall engage in sexual harassment in any real estate transaction.

(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual
advance, request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when:

a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition ofan individual's real
estate transaction;

b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for any
decision affecting the individual's real estate transaction; or

c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual?s real
estate transaction or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment with respect
thereto.

 Notice and Opportunity to Dispute Conviction History.

I) Before an owner may deny admission or continued occupancy on the basis of a conviction. the
owner must first give the individual sufficient notice and an opportunity to dispute the accuracy
and relevance ofthe conviction.

(2) To comply with Section (I). the owner must:

a. Before denying admission or continued occupancy. provide the individual with a copy of the
tenant selection criteria. a copy of any criminal background check relied upon and an
opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of the convictionis):

b. Upon denying admission or continued occupancy. notify the individual in writing the reasons
why reliance upon the conviction is necessary to achieve a substantial, legitimate.
non-discriminatory interest.

0. Limit the use or dissemination of information about an applicant?s criminal history obtained in
coniunction with Section (2Y3) to the purpose of evaluating applicants in a manner consistent
with this ordinance. Unless otherwise mandated by law, the owner must keep such information
con?den?aL

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Anaya, to suspend
the rules 19-2394. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer, Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (7)

A motion was made by Commissioner Johnson, seconded by Commissioner Suffredin, to accept
as substituted 19-2394. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Deer, Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (7)

PROPOSED SECOND SUBSTITUTE FOR #19-2394 (replaces all previous versions issued)
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE 4/24/2019

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

Sponsored by: BRANDON JOHNSON, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, ALMA

E. ANAYA, DEBORAH SIMS, DONNA MILLER, LUIS ARROYO JR, STANLEY MOORE and
BILL LOWRY, Cook County Board Of Commissioners

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 42 Human Relations,
Section 42-38, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 42-38. - Housing.
De?nitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Conviction means a iudgment of liability entered upon a plea. verdict or ?nding of guilt for an offense.
rendered by a legally constituted iury. court or administrative authority of competent iurisdiction.
Conviction excludes any ?iuvenile record? as defined below.

Covered criminal history means information regarding an individual?s arrest. charge or citation for an
offense; participation in a diversion or deferral of iudgment program: record of an offense that has been
sealed, expunged, or pardoned in accordance with applicable law; juvenile record; and conviction.

Evidence of rehabilitation means anv information produced bv the individual, or produced on their
behalf, with respect to their rehabilitation or good conduct, including but not limited to: the individual?s
satisfactorv compliance with all terms and conditions of his or her sentence; court-issued certi?cates of
good conduct; employer recommendations: educational attainment or vocational or professional training
since the conviction; completion or active participation in rehabilitative treatment; and letters of
recommendation from communitv organizations, counselors or case managers, teachers, communitv
leaders, religious institutions or leaders, or parole/probation officers who have observed the individual since
his or her conviction.

Individualized assessment means a process bv which a person considers all factors relevant to an
individual?s conviction historv and whether that historv negativelv impacts the individual?s abilitv to ful?ll
the responsibilities oftenancv, including but not limited to:

 

 

 

 

 

 

The nature, severitv, and recency of the conduct underlving the individual?s speci?c
may;

(2) The nature of the individual?s sentencing;

(3) The number ofthe individual?s convictions;

(4) The length of time that has passed following the individual?s most recent conviction:

(5) The age of the individual at the time of the most recent conviction:

(6) Evidence of rehabilitation: and

(7) The individual?s tenant historv before and/or after the conviction

 

Juvenile record means iuvenile court records, as deft ned in 705 ILCS or comparable state
law, and iuvenile law enforcement records, as de?ned in 705 405/ 3.2) or comparable state law.

Offense means a violation of anv penal statute, ordinance, law, or code of anv iurisdiction.

Person shall mean any person as defined in Section 46-31(15) of this article that is also an owner,
lessor, sublessor, assignor, managing agent, or other individual, firm, or corporation having the right to sell,

rent, lease, or sublease any housing unit within Cook County, or any agent, broker, or other individual
working on behalf of any such individual, firm, or corporation.

Real estate transaction means the sale, exchange, rental, occupancy, lease, sublease, or lease renewal
of real property for residential purposes in Cook County or the provision of services or utilities in
connection with such sale, exchange, rental, occupancy, lease, sublease, or lease renewal. The term "real
estate transaction" also means with respect to activity conducted or property located in Cook County, the
brokering or appraising of residential real property in Cook County and the making, purchasing, or
guaranteeing of loans or mortgages or providing any other financial assistance either:

(1)
(2)

For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or

Secured by residential real property.

Prohibitions.

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

Terms and conditions. No person shall make any distinction, discrimination, or restriction in the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any real estate transaction, including the decision to
engage in or renew any real estate transaction, on the basis of unlawful discrimination or covered
criminal history.

Discriminatory communications. No person shall publish, circulate, issue, or display, or cause to
be published, circulated, issued, or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign or
other writing of any kind relating to a real estate transaction which will indicate or express any
unlawful limitation or discrimination on the basis of unlawful discrimination or covered criminal
history.

Listings. No person shall deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of any listing of
residential real property within Cook County to any individual because of unlawful discrimination
or covered criminal history.

Representations. No person shall deliberately and knowingly represent to an individual that
residential real property is not available for inspection, sale, rental, or lease in Cook County when
in fact it is available, or fail to bring a residential real estate listing in Cook County to an
individual?s attention, or refuse to permit a person to inspect residential real property in Cook
County because of unlawful discrimination or covered criminal history.

Blockbitsting. No person shall solicit, for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease, residential real
property within Cook County on the grounds of loss of value due to the present or prospective
entry into any neighborhood of any individualsteFinelividuals?of any particular race, color, sex,
age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental
status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status, or with any
covered criminal history.

Encouragement of blockbusting. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed written
material or statements designed to induce any owner of residential real property in Cook County
to sell or lease such owner's property because of any prospective change in the race, color, sex,
age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental
status, military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status of
individuals in the neighborhood, or because of the presence or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of anv individualtsl with any covered criminal history.

Creating alarm. No person shall intentionally create alarm among residents of any community
within Cook County by transmitting communication in any manner, including a telephone call
whether or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any person within Cook
County to sell or lease the person's residential real property within Cook County because of the
present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property of any iridividtlal?eehtdi?d-uals

with any covered criminal history or of any particular race, color, sex, age, religion, disability,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status.

(8)1?reemptive inquiries. No person shall inquire about, consider, or require disclosure of covered

criminal history when considering an application for admission to, or continuing occupancy of,
residential real property until the individual has been determined quali?ed for admission to, or
continuing occupancy of, residential real property.

Exceptions. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any of the following:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

Age. Restricting rental or sale of a housing accommodation to an individual of a certain age group:

a. When such housing accommodation is authorized, approved, ?nanced, or subsidized in
whole or in part for the bene?t of that age group by a unit of State, local, or Federal
government; or

b. When the duly recorded initial declaration of a condominium or community association
limits such housing accommodations to individuals 50 years of age or older, provided that
an individual or members of the household of an individual owning or renting a unit in such
housing accommodation prior to the recording of the initial declaration shall not be deemed
to be in violation of the age restriction as long as the individual or household member
continues to own or reside in the housing accommodation.

Reiigion. Limitation by a religious organization, association, or society, or any not-for-pro?t
institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society, of the sale, rental, or occupancy of a dwelling which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to individuals of the same religion, or from giving
preference to such individuals.

Single sex. Restricting the rental of rooms in a housing accommodation to individuals of one sex.
The determination of an individual?s sex or gender shall be based upon the sex or gender of that
individual as re?ected on any of?cial identification of that individual recognized by the State,
including a driver?s license or State identi?cation card.

Private rooms. Rental of a room or rooms in a private home by an owner if the owner or a member
of the owner's family resides therein or, while absent for a period of not more than 12 months, if
the owner or a member of the owner's family intends to return to reside therein.

(5)Certain conviction history. Denying the admission to or continuing occupancy of residential real

property on the basis of:

 

 

 

a. a current sex offender registration requirement pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration
Act (or similar law in another iurisdictionl:

b. a current child sex offender residency restriction: or

c. a criminal conviction. provided that the person conducts an individualized assessment. and

 

the individualized assessment shows that denial based on the criminal conviction is necessary to
protect against a demonstrable risk to personal safety and/or property of others affected by the
transaction. The Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall promulgate rules to enforce
this exception.

(6)Applieab1e law. Denying the admission to or continuing occupancy of residential real property on tLe

basis of covered criminal history when federal or state law mandates such denial.

Sexuai harassment.

(1)

No person shall engage in sexual harassment in any real estate transaction.

(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual
advance, request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when: 

a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of an individual's
real estate transaction;

b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for
any decision affecting the individual's real estate transaction; or

c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's real
estate transaction or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment with respect
thereto.

(e)Non'ce and Opportunity to Dispute Conviction History.

(1)Before an owner may deny admission or continued occupancy on the basis of a conviction, the
owner must ?rst give the individual suf?cient notice and an opportunity to dispute the accuracy
and relevance of the conviction.

(2)To comply with Section (1). the owner must:

a.Before denying admission or continued occupancy. provide the individual with a copy of the
tenant selection criteria, a copy of any criminal background check relied upon, and
opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of the conviction(s):

b.Upon denying admission or continued occupancy. notify the individual in writing the reasons
why denial based on the conviction is necessary to protect against a demonstrable risk
to personal safety and/or property of others affected by the transaction pursuant to Section

38(c11511c);

c.Limit the use or dissemination of information about an applicant?s criminal history obtained in
coniunction with Section a) to the purpose of evaluating applicants in a manner
consistent with this ordinance. Unless otherwise mandated by law, the owner must keep such
information con?dential.

Effective date: This ordinance amendment shall become effective three months after the date of adoption.

A motion was made by Commissioner Anaya, seconded by Commissioner Johnson, to
recommend for approval as substituted and amended 19-2394. The motion carried by the
following vote:

Ayes: Deer, Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (7)
ADJOURNMENT
A motion was made by Vice Chairman Morrison, seconded by Commissioner Johnson, to

adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes: Deer, Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (7)

Page 10 of ll

Respectfully submitted,

,?ggzu 75. 22L

Chairman Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at 

Page 11 of 1]

