Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, May 24, 2019 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Heather
M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Hon. Dennis Deer,
LCPC, CCFC and Mike Koetting
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Karen Kim, MD and Patricia Merryweather and (NonDirector Members)

Telephonically
Present:

Director Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (1)

Absent:

None (0)
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to allow
Director Suleiman Gonzalez to participate in the meeting as a voting
member telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Leon Fogelfeld, MD – Chair, Division of
Endocrinology
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Jeff McCutchan – General Counsel

II.

Beena Peters, DNP, RN, FACHE – Chief Nursing
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
There were no regulatory and accreditation updates provided.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.

C. Diabetes Care Update (Attachment #2)
Dr. Leon Fogelfeld, Chair of the Division of Endocrinology, provided an overview of the Diabetes Care
Update. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Director Koetting referenced the Cook County Health Research and Innovation Summit on Housing that
was recently held; he suggested that diabetes care be considered as a topic for a future summit.

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s) (Attachment #3)
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, provided an overview of the following proposed Stroger Hospital
Division Chair initial appointments:
Name
Department/Appt Term
Obstetrics and Gynecology
05/25/2019 – 05/24/2021

Title
Division Chair of
Gynecologic Oncology

Andrew De Funiak, MD

Correctional Health
05/25/2019 – 11/17/2019

Division Chair of
Correctional Health
(Clinical Operations)

Tarlan Hedayati, MD

Emergency Medicine
05/25/2019 – 11/24/2020

Chair of the Division of
Emergency Medicine
Education

Wilberto Nieves-Neira, MD

Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to approve the
three (3) proposed Stroger Hospital Division Chair initial appointments. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 3

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, provided
his report. He stated that, at the recent EMS meeting, they received presentations from the Hospital
Quality Improvement and Patient Safety (HQUIPS) and Ethics Committees. EMS has re-formulated
its Bylaws Committee and will be looking at the rules and regulations. He noted that the Joint
Conference Committee is expected to meet in June; he and Chair Gugenheim will be co-chairing that
Committee.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County, as amended. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, was unable to
attend the meeting. The Committee considered the proposed Provident Hospital medical staff actions
presented for their consideration.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for Provident Hospital
of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, April 18, 2019
Director Prendergast, seconded by Director Koetting, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of April 18,
2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
D. Quality and Patient Safety Report

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 4

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)

Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Prendergast, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following
exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding
“the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or
dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to
determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an
action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and
is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body
finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the
finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of
claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees
Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim
might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications from or
with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk
management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a
member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing,
discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care
professionals, or for the discussion of matters protected under the federal
Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005, and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, including 42 C.F.R. Part 3 (73 FR 70732), or the
federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, including 45 C.F.R. Parts 160, 162, and
164, by a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated
by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a
roll call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Gugenheim and Directors Driscoll, Prendergast and Suleiman
Gonzalez (4)
Nays:
None (0)
Absent: None (0)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed
into a closed meeting.
Chair Gugenheim declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

The

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 5

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/follow-up:
There were no requests for follow-up made at the meeting.

 