SPECIAL MEETING OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 W. Madison, Suite 1925
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the May 22, 2019, Special Meeting of the Board
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call
Trustees Present:

Robert DeGraff, Jack Fitzgerald, Bill Kouruklis, Patrick McFadden,
Joseph Nevius, Kevin Ochalla,

Staff Present:

Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor;
Gary LeDonne, Director, Benefits Administration; Jane Hawes, Director,
Health Benefits;

Others Present:

Mary Pat Burns, Burke Burns & Pinelli, Ltd

Public Comment
Trustee Fitzgerald, presided over the meeting in the absence of Trustee Wilson, President of the Board.
The meeting was opened for public comment and no one having requested to address the Board, the next
item of business on the Agenda was considered.
1. Request of Cook County Regarding Legislation
Ms. Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, reported that, as directed by the trustees at the Special
Meeting on May 10, 2019, she had sent a letter to the Chief Financial Officer of Cook County
(“CFO”) summarizing the Board’s concerns about the proposed legislation and included copies of
the outline that had been shared with the trustees. Copies of the letter were delivered to the
President of the Cook County Board and the Commissioners. The CFO contacted the Executive
Director and a meeting was scheduled and held on May 17, 2019. Ms. Tuczak confirmed that

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 Trustee Fitzgerald, Trustee Ochalla, Mary Pat Burns, fiduciary counsel, Gary LeDonne, Jane Hawes
and Margaret Fahrenbach joined her at the meeting on that date.
The Executive Director reported that the CFO stated that the County was working with labor on the
legislation and that the County’s goal was to have a comprehensive bill that would address a variety
of issues concerning the Fund. Ms. Tuczak told the CFO that the Fund appreciated the process and
that the proposed legislation had been reviewed carefully. The importance of ARC funding was
mentioned along with the codification of healthcare benefits administration. Ms. Tuczak also
inquired with the CFO regarding the next steps. Mr. Rizki reiterated his desire to collaborate with
the Fund. She then presented, as time permitted, an overview of the Board’s concerns as presented
in the letter and outline.
There was no attempt to negotiate any terms with the County. Some clarification of provisions
within the legislation was made by Mr. Rizki. The Executive Director stated that at the conclusion
of the meeting, the County representatives indicated they hoped to have the legislation enacted by
May 31, 2020. She also shared that the CFO requested that the Board refrain from promoting the
enactment of SB 1300, which clarified the source of funds that the County could use to pay
employer contributions and which was currently pending in the House.
The trustees discussed that they were unclear why the County had concerns about the enactment of
SB 1300 because it was consistent with the action taken pursuant to the Intergovernmental
Agreements (“IGA”) entered between the County and the Fund over the past four years. The County
did not appear to appreciate that the change in the Board’s composition was a matter of particular
concern to the Fund. It was also noted that the County did not intend to include the health care trust
in the Illinois Pension Code, however, the County also did not intend for the health care trust to be
operated as an entity subject to ERISA. Ms. Tuczak had requested that the County provide examples
of health care trusts that were not subject to ERISA regulation for further clarification regarding the
structure of the trust.
The trustees were concerned that the County’s outreach to its labor partners regarding the legislation
had been overstated. The trustees discussed that Fund representatives should meet with labor
representatives directly and possibly prepare a joint response to the County. Fiduciary counsel was
asked to contact labor representatives and arrange a meeting with fiduciary counsel, the Executive
Director, Trustee Ochalla, and Trustee Kouruklis. The trustees also discussed whether the Fund
should seek an amendment to SB 1300 which would provide for actuarial based funding. The
Executive Director was asked to contact the Fund’s legislative representative to confirm that he
should take no action to hold SB 1300 until he received further direction from the Board to do so.
2. Old Business/New Business
The Executive Director reported that she had received an email from Trustee Goode that morning in
which she had resigned from her position as Chair of the Legislative Committee. Because of the

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 resignation, the Executive Director proposed that the meeting of the Legislative Committee
scheduled on May 30, 2019, be rescheduled until a new chair had been designated.
3. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Board, it was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded
by Trustee DeGraff that the trustees adjourn the meeting.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 