A6.

R E SO LUTI O N
WHEREAS, on September 8, 2015, Frank M. Clark was sworn in as a Commissioner of the Public Building
Commission of Chicago (“Commission”), representing the Chicago Board of Education following his
appointment as President of the Board of Education on July 23, 2015; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Clark received his Bachelor’s and Juris Doctor Degrees from DePaul University. Mr. Clark is
the retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd, and his forty-six-year career with the company
included developing a work environment that provides opportunities for women, minorities and individuals
from non-traditional career paths; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Clark’s decades-long history of civic and community involvement includes service on the
board of trustees of DePaul University and the Museum of Science and Industry, on the board of directors of
the Big Shoulders Fund, as Chancellor of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois, member of the RAND Corporation
JIE Advisory Board, and President of the Business Leadership Council. Mr. Clark is a member of the Chicago
Bar Association, Commercial Club of Chicago, and the Executives’ Club of Chicago. Mr. Clark is a co-founder
of the Rowe-Clark Math & Science Academy on Chicago’s west side and serves on the board of directors for
Waste Management, Inc., where he chairs the compensation committee. Mr. Clark is past Chairman of the
Executive Committee of The Chicago Community Trust and a Life Trustee and past Board Chair of the Adler
Planetarium, among others; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Clark has received numerous public service and leadership awards, including the National
Humanitarian Award from the National Conference for Community and Justice, the prestigious History Makers
Award, and the Order of Lincoln Award, and was ranked among the 50 Most Powerful Black Executives in
America by Fortune magazine. Mr. Clark received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from Governors
State University and an honorary Doctor of Law from DePaul University; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Clark has provided invaluable leadership and support to the Board of Commissioners of
the Public Building Commission and the citizens and students of the City of Chicago in his capacity as a
Commissioner of the Board; and
WHEREAS, as the representative of the Board of Education to the Commission, Mr. Clark was instrumental
in facilitating the development of numerous public schools and educational facilities throughout the City of
Chicago, including new school annexes at Canty, Jamieson, Edwards, Walter Payton, Byrne, Ebinger, Esmond,
Mt. Greenwood, Prussing, Sheridan, Zapata and Skinner West, along with new school facilities at South Loop,
Dore, Southeast Elementary School and the new Richardson Middle School, among others;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Frank M. Clark is hereby commended for his outstanding
service and guidance as a member of the Board of Commissioners of the Public Building
Commission; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Carina E. Sánchez, Executive Director of the Public
Building Commission of Chicago, is hereby authorized and directed to present to Frank
M. Clark a suitable copy of this resolution commemorating the dedicated service that he
has provided to the Public Building Commission of Chicago and the citizens of the City of
Chicago.

CARINA E. SÁNCHEZ, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

JUNE 19, 2019

 