Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, May 24, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room
5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors Hon. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC; Ada Mary Gugenheim
(Substitute Member); and Mike Koetting (Substitute Member) (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio), Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Steven Scheer
(Non-Director Member)

Present
Telephonically: Director David Ernesto Munar (1)
Absent:

Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
James Kiamos – Chief Executive Officer, CountyCare
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Mary Sajdak – Chief Operating Officer, Integrated Care
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, April 18, 2019
Chair Reiter, seconded by Director Koetting, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of April 18, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)

Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The following individuals provided additional information: Ekerete Akpan, Chief
Financial Officer; James Kiamos, Chief Executive Officer, CountyCare; and Mary Sajdak, Chief Operating
Officer, Integrated Care. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
Mr. Jones informed the Committee that a correction is needed for request number 3, to correct the grant increase
amount. The increase should be listed as $26,893.00; the total amount of the grant funding, including the
increase, is $204,238.00

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)

During the discussion of request number 13, Director Gugenheim inquired whether there are other contributors to
the housing pool besides Cook County Health and the City of Chicago. Mary Sajdak, Chief Operating Officer of
Integrated Care, stated that Advocate Health Care and Blue Cross Blue Shield will each contribute $500,000 to
the pool. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, stated that, as other partners are added, there is a hope
and expectation that organizations will continue to contribute to the pool.
During the discussion of request number 21, several questions were raised and additional information was
requested. It was determined that the item would be deferred to the May 31, 2019 Board Meeting, so the
information sought can be provided.
Chair Reiter, seconded by Director Deer, moved the approval of request numbers
1 through 20, as amended, and subject to completion of review by Contract
Compliance, where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chair Reiter, seconded by Director Deer, moved to defer request number 21 to be
considered by the full Board of Directors at their meeting on May 31, 2019.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Proposed Transfer of Funds (Attachment #2)
Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the proposed transfer of funds. The Committee reviewed and discussed
the information.
Chair Reiter, seconded by Director Munar, moved to approve the proposed
transfer of funds. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Section III
IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Quarterly Report – Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) Metrics (Attachment #3)
Mr. Jones provided an overview of the quarterly report on M/WBE Metrics. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
Chair Reiter stated that there should be a way to measure the diversity of the workforce of the vendors and
contractors, and that measurement should be included when determining whether the vendor meets the goals
relating to the M/WBE Ordinance.
Director Deer stated that he believes that Contract Compliance is too quick to issue waivers. He requested that the
Committee begin receiving these metrics monthly. It was determined that Mr. Jones will begin presenting a rolling
three (3) month report on a monthly basis.
B. Report of emergency purchases
There were none reported.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 3

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #4)
•
•

Metrics
Financials: March 2019

Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the finance metrics.
information.

The Committee reviewed and discussed the

During the review of the information, Director Driscoll inquired regarding the number of patients who come to
the System uninsured, whom the System assists in getting enrolled in a health plan or enrolled in CareLink (the
System’s sliding scale financial assistance program). Dr. Shannon responded that this information will be
provided.
During the discussion of slide 12 of the report, Board Chair Hammock inquired as to the reason why there are no
targets listed for Radiology Tests. Mr. Akpan responded that he will look into the question and provide a
response.
Mr. Scheer inquired regarding the percentage of CCHHS claims that are denied by the CountyCare Health Plan.
Mr. Akpan responded that he will provide that information.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair
Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Follow-up:

Request number 21 will be deferred to the May 31, 2019 Board Meeting, so additional
information can be provided. Page 2

Follow-up:

Mr. Jones will begin presenting a rolling three (3) month report on M/WBE Metrics on a monthly
basis. Page 2

Request:

There was a request for information regarding the number of patients who come to the System
uninsured, whom the System assists in getting enrolled in a health plan or enrolled in CareLink.
Page 3

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, May 24, 2019
Page 4

Follow-up:

There was an inquiry as to the reason why there are no targets listed for Radiology Tests on slide
12 of the Report from the Chief Financial officer. Page 3

Request:

There was a request for information regarding the percentage of CCHHS claims that are denied
by the CountyCare Health Plan. Page 3

 