MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
November 15, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
November 15, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at Washington Park, Yancey Center, 6245 S. Wabash, Chicago,
Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Michael Ivers

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
the Board will receive the seventh balanced budget since the Mayor took over the CHA. Mr.
Peterson advised the public that he would spare them the details and wished all present a Happy
Thanksgiving.
Commissioner Ivers joined the meeting in session at approximately 9:45 a.m.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced for approval the Minutes of Executive Session for October 18, 2005, Minutes for the
Special Meetings held on June 9 and July 22, 2005 and Regular Minutes for the meeting of
October 18, 2005. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were unanimously
approved and accepted as submitted.

1

 Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Gates then presented a Motion to approve resolution for Item 1.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-160
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 4, 2005 requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for October 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
October 2005.

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Nesbitt and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, November 9, 2005 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The
Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow
Report as of October 31, 2005.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
A1 through A6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the FY2006 Comprehensive Budget detailing each of its
funding sources. The FY2006 Comprehensive Budget totaling $942.6 million includes the
following fund categories: General Fund ($850 million), Section 8 Fund ($33 million) City/State
($1.8 million) and Other Funding ($20.4 million). The estimated sum of all revenues for fiscal
year 2006 and the amount of fiscal year 2005 fund balance available for appropriation in fiscal
year 2006 is equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made or incurred during fiscal
year 2006 and the amount of all unpaid liabilities at the beginning of fiscal year 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-161
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 20,
2005, entitled “Approval of the FY2006 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached, “FY2006
Comprehensive Budget”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.
that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
2.
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
2

 3.

THAT,

that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A2)
CHA is required by HUD to undergo an annual audit in conformity with Generally Accepted
Auditing Standards. The audit is used to determine whether the CHA’s financial data and reports
may be relied upon, to confirm that an internal control structure is in place, to determine that
proper policies and procedures are followed and to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of grant awards. In August 2005 the Chicago Housing Authority’s previous auditor,
Deloitte & Touche, LLP, informed CHA that they would not be able to continue their audit
engagement for FY 2005, due to their involvement with the Yardi implementation. CHA
therefore, issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) for Auditing Services. Of the two responses
received and evaluated, it was determined that Ernst & Young would be the best candidate to
provide the auditing services. The decision to select Ernst & Young as the auditors for the
Chicago Housing Authority was based on its experience in auditing governmental and real estate
entities and their available resources. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves award of
contract to Ernst & Young.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-162
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 9, 2005 entitled “Authorization to enter into a
contract with Ernst & Young to provide Auditing Services”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a two year contract with three additional one year options
with Ernst & Young to provide auditing services to the CHA in an amount not to
exceed $1,148,500 for the two year period.

(Item A3)
Given the scope of the Authority’s business activity, it is essential that the CHA have a
continuous built-in function to review, assess and monitor the effectiveness, efficiency and
economics of its operations and practices. The internal audit function has a critical role in its
partnership with management to facilitate the CHA’s change in business focus. There is also
significant opportunity to address improvements in operations by measuring outcomes and
results that have not been examined to date. By outsourcing this function to a professional
accounting firm, the CHA has continued to benefit from the comprehensive expertise provided
by a private firm and continued its strategy of privatizing business functions where appropriate.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 authorizes staff to exercise the option to extend the
current auditing contract with KPMG. During the past four years, KPMG has provided the CHA
with outstanding service and has performed all tasks expected of the internal audit provider.
KPMG has utilized expertise from its global internal audit practice to deliver key solutions to
manage critical financial, business and operational risks on behalf of the CHA. Pursuant to the
third extension option, KPMG is willing to provide internal auditing services to the CHA for the
contract extension term, January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, under the same rates,
terms and conditions as provided in the Contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-163
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated November 9, 2005 entitled, “Authorization to exercise the
Option to extend Contract No. 9678 with KPMG, LLP for Internal Auditing
Services ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

3

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 9678 with KPMG,
LLP (“Contract”) for the period of January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 to
provide internal auditing services for a total amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000
pursuant to the third extension option.

(Item A4)
HUD offers incentives to housing authorities that purchase their natural gas supplies at a cost
that is less than what the local utility would charge. CHA’s past experiences with gas prices,
particularly during winter, are such that by committing to purchase a portion of these future gas
needs at current market conditions, gas future contracts provide a significant financial benefit by
hedging against increases and fluctuations in the market price of gas supplies. Commodity
market movements are most beneficial to customers like the CHA are most likely to occur during
the spring and fall seasons. In April 2002, the Board of Commissioners approved the Wellhead
Natural Gas Supply and Delivery Agreement with Peoples Energy Corporation, for an amount
not-to-exceed $35,100,000.00 for a twenty (20) month term from May 1, 2002 through
December 31, 2003. The Contract included three (3) one-year extension options. Peoples has
agreed to provide natural gas under the same terms and conditions as provided for in the original
Contract at the same wholesale market-indexed pricing provided in prior years of the Contract.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A4 approves the extension of the Contract with Peoples Gas
which will allow the CHA to purchase its natural gas supplies from a non-utility, wholesale
source and realize the benefits of utility supply savings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-164
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated November 9, 2005 entitled “Authorization to exercise Third
Year Option to extend the Wellhead Natural Gas Contract with Peoples Energy
Services Corporation (Contract No. 9717)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment to Contract No. 9717 with Peoples Energy
Services Corporation to exercise the third year option to extend the term of the
Contract from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 under the same rates,
terms and conditions in an amount not-to-exceed $35,000,000.00 for the purpose
of providing natural gas to the CHA.

(Item A5)
Since December 1998 the Board approves and authorizes CMHDC’s full-time employee’s
participation in the CHA’s medical/dental/disability, Employee Assistance Program (EAP),
deferred compensation and retirement plans upon the condition that CMHDC make all
appropriate payments to the CHA for the costs of said benefits. The Resolution adopted by the
Board of Commissioners requires annual approval by the Board for the continued participation
of CMHDC’s full time employees in the CHA’s employee benefit programs. CMHDC has been
responsible during these years for making payments to the CHA for the employee benefit plans
made available to its full-time employees. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 approves the
participation of CMHDC’s full time employees in CHA’s employee benefit plans for 2006. .

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-165
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated
November 9, 2005 entitled “Request for Approval of Extension of
Employee Benefits for Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Corporation (“CMHDC”);

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AURHOTITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation’s (“CMHDC”) fulltime employees to continue
participation in all of the CHA’s benefit plans made available to the
CHA’s employees for 2006, provided CMHDC makes all requisite
payments to the CHA on timely basis.

(Item A6)
4

 The resolution for Item A6 approves amendment of the Annual Contributions Contract. The
purpose of this Amendment is to add units under Project IL06P002213 to the ACC C-1014. The
New Addendum, in addition to the changes under this Amendment, also reflects that Project
IL06P002167 under ACC C-1014 is being transferred from development to operation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-166
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 9,
2005 entitled “Recommendation to Execute Amendment to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 for Project Nos. IL06P002167
and 213”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment modifying the terms
of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 with U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development to add units under Project Nos. IL06P002213 and
transfer of Project IL06P002167 from development to operation; and the Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute
such Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 in quintuplicate
and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed to attest and
impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each such
counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment shall be substantially in the attached
form.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 at approximately 1:45 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices.
Commissioner Gates, then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for
Items B1 and B3, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations &
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves ratification of contract with Roula Associates for additional
design work at Lawndale Gardens. The additional work was needed to bring the Community
Center into ADA Compliance and upgrade its infrastructure to accommodate assorted
telecommunication, cable, computer, security and energy conservation advancements under the
Sensible Homes Program. Both aspects of the re-design needed to be completed quickly in order
to secure vital permits from the City of Chicago so that renovation work could move forward in a
timely manner.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA -167
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 9, 2005,
5

 entitled “Authorization to ratify the Amendment to Contract No. 0641 with Roula
Associates Architects, CHTD. for the provision of additional Prime Design
Consultant Services at Lawndale Gardens (IL2-005)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
/designee to amend Contract No. 0641 with Roula Associates Architects, Chtd. to
ratify the expenditure of $140,000.00 for completed Prime Design Consultant
(PDC) services at Lawndale Gardens (IL2-005).The new Total Contract Price of
Contract No. 0641 is $809,870.00. The length of the Contract remains unchanged.
This amendment is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)

(Item B3)
A Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued on September 9, 2005 to competitively solicit
qualified firms to provide tenant screening services that include, but are not limited to, criminal
and credit background information checks and employment verifications for applicants and
residents of CHA. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers in addition to CHA’s website.
The CHA also directly solicited six firms, including one MBE/WBE firm. Of the two proposals
received and reviewed, First Advantage SafeRent, Inc was determined to be the best candidate to
provide tenant screening services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of
contract to First Advantage SafeRent.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-168
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 9,
2005 titled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with First Advantage SafeRent,
Inc. for Tenant Screening Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with First Advantage SafeRent, Inc. to provide
tenant screening services for a 2 year term in an amount not-to-exceed
$240,000.00, with a one (1) year option.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 and B3 was seconded by Commissioner
Nesbitt and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented a report
for the Tenant Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday, November 9, 2005.
6

 Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 through C5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves a Funding Agreement between the CHA and the Central
Advisory Council (CAC). This Funding Agreement is required by HUD Regulations and
includes assurances that all CAC expenditures will not contravene provisions of law and will
promote serviceability, efficiency, economy, and stability in the operation of the housing
authority. The agreement places financial responsibility on the CAC to govern, control and
document use of CHA provided funds approved for FY2006 in the amount of $1,423,687 for the
period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-169
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 9,
2005 entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a Funding Agreement
for Fiscal Year 2006 with the Central Advisory Council (“CAC”);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central
Advisory Council for the 2006 fiscal year in an amount not-to-exceed One
Million Four Hundred Twenty Three Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Seven
Dollars ($1,423,687) for the period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending
December 31, 2006.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves a Funding Agreement between the CHA and the Senior
Housing Advisory Council (SHAC) for FY2006 in the amount of $300,000.00. SHAC is
managed by three duly elected presidents to act for and on behalf of the residents who live in
CHA senior buildings. The Agreement will contain provisions to require compliance with all
state, local and federal laws, rules and regulations and require SHAC to account for use of the
funds under the Agreement. The Agreement will also permit the CHA to review and audit the
Books and Records of the SHAC.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-170
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated
November 9, 2005 entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a
Funding Agreement with the Senior Housing Advisory Council
(“SHAC”);

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement
with the Senior Housing Advisory Council for the period commencing
January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2006 in an amount not to
exceed Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000).

(Item C3)
At the onset of the Plan for Transformation, the CHA privatized many of the services available
to residents to public, private and non-profit agencies. Under the privatized system, residents
receive basic social services from the Chicago Department of Human Services (CDHS) Service
Connectors, which in turn subcontracts with 10 agencies. Additionally, the CHA’s Department
of Relocation and Supportive Services oversees operations of 12 private and non-profit agencies
that also offer social services and relocation assistance to families. Service providers must meet
consistent, measurable outcomes as defined by their contracts with the CHA. Once information
is collected on provider activities, it is aggregated into monthly reports that show a provider’s
performance in meeting its contract outcomes. The performance reviews allow the CHA to
monitor progress among its providers. As a next step in ensuring that services are provided
efficiently and effectively to residents by the service providers, the CHA seeks to develop and
7

 implement a quality control initiative that monitors the quality of information provided to the
CHA by the service providers, as well as the information that the CHA provides to HUD.
Accordingly, in June 2005, a Request For Proposal was advertised requesting firms to provide
quality control services and evaluate contractor performance for the Office of Resident Services.
Of the three respondents who submitted proposals, all were determined to be within the
competitive range. The three Respondents were then invited to make oral presentations, and
based on the recommendation of the evaluating committee, Smart and Associates was
determined to be the most responsive and responsible bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item C3 approves award of contract to Smart and Associates.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-171
The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the Board Letter dated November 9, 2005 entitled, “Authorization to enter
into a contract with Smart and Associates, LLP to provide Quality Control
Services and Evaluate Contractor Performance for the Office of Resident
Services”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a firm fixed fee contract with Smart and Associates,
LLP to provide quality control services and evaluate contractor performance
for the Office of Resident Services for a base term of 18 month period for the
amount of $167,035.00, subject to compliance with the CHA’s M/W/DBE and
Section 3 requirements.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves award of contract to Holsten Real Estate Development to
provide Community and Supportive Services (CSS) to Cabrini Green Residents. The CHA
Commissioners authorized a Redevelopment Contract with the Development Team comprised of
Holsten, Kimball Hill Urban Centers Chicago One, and the Cabrini Green LAC Community
Development Corporation and Parkside Associates. The team is responsible for preparing
funding applications, obtaining financing, construction, and the coordination of community and
supportive services. The primary focus of the CSS Agreement will be to assist CHA families
that have chosen to return to the Parkside development. Case management services will be
specifically designed to address site specific criteria and the barriers a family may face in
meeting the criteria and thus returning to the Parkside development. The scope of services will
include outreach, assessment, service planning, and case management and employment services.
In addition, services will also include community integration and workforce development
activities.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-172
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated November 9, 2005 entitled “Authorization to negotiate and
enter into a contract with Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation to
provide Community and Supportive Services to Cabrini Green Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with Holsten Real Estate
Development Corporation, a member of the Development Team for Cabrini
Green Extension North, soon to be known as Parkside of Old Town, a mixed
income development, for a twelve (12) month base term and two one year option
periods to provide community and supportive services (“CSS”) to the Cabrini
Green residents in an amount not-to-exceed $690,000.00.

(Item C5)
On October 26th, the CHA received official written notice of an award of $174,578 from HUD to
participate in the Enhancement of Public Housing HOPE VI Communities Through Mentoring
Demonstration Program. This demonstration program will target 20 families who have relocated
from the Robert Taylor Homes and currently reside in the South Shore, Washington Park,
Englewood or West Englewood neighborhoods. Each family will be paired with a mentor from
8

 one of the participating churches who will assist families in meeting designated benchmarks. In
keeping with the requirements of this demonstration program, the University of Chicago, School
of Social Service Administration, the current Robert Taylor HOPE VI evaluator, will also
evaluate this mentoring program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-173
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 31st entitled “Recommendation to accept a grant
award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the
amount of $174,578, and enter into a sub-agreement with Apostolic Faith Church,
Faith Community of St. Sabina, Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church, Grant
Memorial A.M.E., New Canaan Land B.B. Church, St. Columbanus Church, St.
Philip Neri Church and the University of Chicago School of Social Service
Administration to participate in the 2005 Enhancement of Public Housing HOPE
VI Communities Through Mentoring Demonstration Program.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept a grant award from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in the amount of $174,578, and enter in a sub-agreement with faithbased organizations to provide mentoring for families who have relocated from
the Robert Taylor Homes and the University of Chicago for evaluation services,
in the following not-to-exceed amounts with:
Apostolic Faith Church - $5,250
Faith Community of St. Sabina - $3,500
Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church - $3,500
Grant Memorial A.M.E. - $3,500
New Canaan Land M.B. Church - $5,250
St. Columbanus Church - $7,000
St. Philip Neri Church - $7,000
University of Chicago School of Social Service Administration - $49,478

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C5 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records
9

 