MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 19, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
April 19, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Parkside Apartments, 5670 West Lake, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Absent:

Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
today’s agenda once again reflects CHA’s commitment to rebuild the lives of residents as the
CHA rebuilds their homes and communities. Mr. Peterson highlighted the agenda items,
particularly emphasizing the extension of contracts with agencies that link residents to social
services at ABLA, Cabrini-Green Altgeld/Murray Homes and Wentworth Gardens. These
services include help with lease compliance and community tours to expand their knowledge of
neighborhoods available for relocation. Other items in the agenda highlighted by Mr. Peterson
included the extension contract for Rita Fry to serve as the Monitor of Relocation Services and
the award of five resident-owned businesses contracts that will create economic opportunities for
residents of CHA. According to Mr. Peterson, more and more of CHA residents are working,
and with every month, more and more units are coming on line. Mr. Peterson concluded his
report by thanking the Board for their support and guidance.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Gates then
presented a Motion to approve Executive Session Items 1 thru 3.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 4, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Reports for March 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Reports for
March 2005.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 30,
2005 requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of
Wallace, et al. vs. Chicago Housing Authority and Terry Peterson, 03 C 0491, and
pay attorneys fees in the amount of $200,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of. Wallace, et al. vs. Chicago
Housing Authority and Terry Peterson, 03 C 0491, and pay attorneys fees in the
amount of $200,000

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 29, 2005
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount of Contract No. 318 with
Holland & Knight in connection with its representation of the CHA in claims by
UBM Contractors, Inc. and its subcontractors relating to the renovation of the
Lowden Homes Family Development
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 03158 with Holland & Knight to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed an additional $300,000 in order to
pay for legal fees and expenses relating to claims of UBM and its subcontractors .
related to the renovation of the Lowden Homes Family Development.

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
2

 Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee then presented the
monthly Committee report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting
was held on Wednesday, April 13, 2005 at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices at 1:00 p.m.
CHA Resident Services staff and representatives from Changing Patterns presented the
Committee with an update on Counseling and Supportive Services provided by Changing
Patterns For Families.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of the resolutions for
Item A1 thru A3, discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the Tenant Services
Committee:
(Item A1)
In December 2003, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Contract with Housing Choice
Partners of Illinois (HCP), to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families that
had to relocate from their existing public housing units in 2004. The Contract’s initial term was
for fourteen (14) months with four one-year options. The services to be provided included
obtaining/maintaining lease compliancy, assessment, providing community tours, identifying
housing and other services to assist families in meeting their housing choice. HCP has met, and
at times exceeded its contract obligations with the CHA. During the Contract’s initial term, HCP
began providing relocation services to families in Altgeld Gardens/Murray Homes and
Wentworth Gardens. The resolution for Item A1 approves the first year option of contract with
HCP. For the first year’s extension option, $591,976.00 of additional funding is required to
allow HCP to provide services to approximately 188 new families in Abla and Cabrini Green –
William Green Homes and to continue to provide follow-up services to families who relocated
during the base term of the contract. This additional funding, when added to the remaining
available balance at the end of the base term of the Contract, will allow the CHA to compensate
HCP for housing counseling and supportive services provided to families relocating in 2005
throughout the first year extension option.
.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated April 13, 2005 entitled “Recommendation to Exercise the First
Year Option of Contract No. 0454 with HCP of Illinois, Inc and Heartland Human
Care Services, Inc. a joint venture, for Housing and Supportive Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (l) year extension option of Contract No. 0454
with HCP of Illinois, Inc. and Heartland Human Care Services, Inc., a joint
venture, for housing and supportive services for the period of July 1, 2005
through June 30, 2006 and to add $591,976.00 additional funding to the not-toexceed contract amount. The new total not-to-exceed amount of the Contract will
be $1,220,176.00

(Item A2)
In December 2002, LR ABLA LLC was selected as Master Developer for redevelopment of the
ABLA community, based on a proposal submitted to the CHA and its court appointed receiver,
The Habitat Company LLC. LR procured Boulevard Group to provide overall planning and
program management services to implement the redevelopment project at ABLA. BG provided
consulting services for LR and CHA from January 2003 through July 2004. At the end of the
contract period, LR expended a total amount of $456,270.61 for consulting services. To pay for
these services, an amount of $160,949.29 was paid from the Developer’s private resources,
$162,099.28 was paid out of the Developer’s fee and $133,222.04, CHA’s portion, was also paid
by LR. The resolution for Item A2 approves ratification of the payments made to LR ABLA
LLC for consulting services performed by the Boulevard Group because the services provided
were necessary and ultimately benefited CHA and the overall redevelopment of the ABLA
mixed-income project. During the pre-development phase of the project, services included but
were not limited to development of the Tenant Selection Plan, the screening criteria, the
development of the Roosevelt Square lease and the Continued Occupancy Criteria. Such
3

 services were required early in the development process and were necessary for the
development’s closing. Resident Services believes that the timeliness of the services provided
was critical to maintaining the project’s implementation schedule and ultimately had a positive
impact on CHA’s Plan For Transformation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 13, 2005 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO RATIFY
PAYMENT TO LR ABLA, LLC FOR CONSULTING SERVICES
PERFORMED BY THE BOULEVARD GROUP, INC.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to ratify payment to LR ABLA LLC (“LR”) for consulting services
performed by The Boulevard Group, Inc. (“BG”) for a total not-to-exceed amount
of $133,222.04.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the Form of Lease and Tenant Selection Plan for the new
Madden Wells Phase I-B – Oakwood Shores development. It is understood that the owner entity,
Madden Wells Phase I-B Associates, LLC, has an interest and desire to implement its own lease
forms and policy that encourages consistent community standards and for the effective
management of its mixed income developments. The lease and tenant selection plan have to
accommodate various aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed
finance transaction. The authorization of approval of the form of lease and tenant selection plan
is required at this time to facilitate the closing of this development transaction. Both documents
have been subject to extensive negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, the Working Group,
and the Local Advisory Committee and the documents are recommended as acceptable. A public
comment period was held from January 24 to February 22, 2005 and a public hearing was held
on February 2, 2005. Consideration was given to comments received in finalizing the documents
with the Developer and the owner entity.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 18,
2005, entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE FORM OF
LEASE AND TENANT SELECTION PLAN FOR THE NEW MADDEN
WELLS PHASE I-B – OAKWOOD SHORES DEVELOPMENT AND TO
AMEND THE CHA ADMISSION AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY
TO INCORPORATE SUCH DOCUMENTE AS AN ADDENDUM THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and
tenant selection plan in substantially the form presented to the Board for the new
Madden Wells Phase I-B - Oakwood Shores development and hereby approves an
amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s Admission and Continued
Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as an addenda. The
Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD
requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and
comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
4

 Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on item A3 only)
Nays:

None

Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A3 only.
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facility Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, April 13, 2005, at approximately 1:30 p.m. at the
626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices. There were no presentations to come before the Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B13, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1
The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification with George Sollitt Construction
Company for additional labor and materials to make changes to the electrical distribution system,
as per the City of Chicago electrical codes, at Trumbull Park. Masonry repair work will be
performed, and damaged trees will be removed, and fire damaged walls and ceilings will be
repaired in two locations. Trumbull Park is undergoing extensive renewal of infrastructure,
including upgraded electrical capacity. The work and materials in this contract modification
reflect the appropriate and code compliant changes for this important capacity upgrade of the
secondary electrical power distribution network. Extensive underground conduit and cabling
systems, associated transformers and switchgear, as well as other corrections and clarifications
are included in this work. As part of the Sensible Homes initiative now being introduced into the
Family housing developments, advanced electronic monitoring systems will be installed to
identify inordinate usage of utility resources, as well as to provide safety precautions within
individual units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-01 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0617 WITH THE GEORGE SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY FOR ADDITIONAL GENERAL REHABILITATION AT
TRUMBULL PARK HOMES (IL2-025)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-12 to Contract No. 0617
with The George Sollitt Construction Company in the amount of $1,938,183.92
for additional necessary repairs at Trumbull Park Homes, 2437 East 106th Street,
which is a Family Housing development being rehabilitated under Contract No.
0617. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0617 is $49,111,183.92.
The date for completion of the general rehabilitation at Trumbull Park Homes is
not extended. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s M/W/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring and insurance requirements

(Item B2)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, McKissack is providing MOR services for all
Capital Improvement Plan Programs. McKissack is also responsible for the coordination of the
activities of all Owner’s Representatives hired by the CHA as consultants on CHA projects. In
addition, McKissack advises CHA Executive Staff, including the CEO, the Managing Director of
Operations, and the Director of the Capital Construction Division regarding the progress of the
Capital Improvement Program. The resolution for Item B2 approves the one year option
extension for McKissack. The Option Year will extend through April 30, 2006. McKissack is
involved in a number of activities and areas of additional work that would be seriously impacted
if their services are not extended through the Option Year. McKissack has become an integral
5

 part of the CHA management team with respect to the Capital Improvement Program and its
central role in the Plan for Transformation. The loss of the MOR services covered by this
contract would be detrimental to the timely achievement of CHA’s Plan for Transformation,
particularly since the number of units planned for completion has been increased.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE ONE-YEAR OPTION TO EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 0390 FOR MANAGING OWNER’S REPRESENTATIVE
SERVICES WITH McKISSACK & McKISSACK MIDWEST, INC. IN THE
AMOUNT OF $1,303,982.00”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise Option Year 1 to extend Contract No. 0390 for Managing
Owner’s Representative (“MOR”) services with McKissack & McKissack
Midwest, Inc. (“McKissack”) in the amount of $1,303,982.00 for extended
staffing authorization. The Option Year will cover the period from May 1, 2005
through April 30, 2006. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves a contract award to DSR, Inc. for Developer’s
Representative services at the Britton Budd Apartments. In place of the traditional Owner’s
Representative, the CHA will engage DSR, to provide designated development services. These
services will include meeting the requirements of the FHA, as well as assisting in the raising of
tax credit equity for the properties. DSR will coordinate and implement all aspects of the
financing and closing due diligence process, including tax syndication closing, as well as the
construction process. DSR has a long association with the Britton Budd development as they
have served as the Owner’s Representative for this building since 2002. Their experience with
the building and community will be of great value in general, and will also help in dealing with
the historic preservation aspects of its rehabilitation. Complementing DSR’s experience with the
CHA in construction management at several CHA Buildings, including Britton Budd, DSR will
use the same team that has served as the DR for the CHA’s City-State project. This
Development Management Team has already worked seamlessly with the CHA’s Finance
Department to facilitate the necessary documents for preparation of the financing package for the
City-State project. The CHA will enter into a new contract procured by the non-competitive
proposal process because of the exigency of going forward with this project, to timely pursue the
FHA application and equity funding processes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AWARD A NON-COMPETITIVE
CONTRACT TO DSR, INC. FOR DEVELOPER’S REPRESENTATIVE
SERVICES AT BRITTON BUDD (IL2-048) SENIOR HOUSING PROPERTY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with DSR, Inc. for the provision of Developer’s
Representative services at Britton Budd Apartments, 501 West Surf (IL2-048).
Britton Budd Apartments is a Senior housing development. The contract value
will be $772,000.00. The contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to
Proceed, and shall continue for two (2) years or until the completion of preconstruction, construction, and close-out activities at the assigned development,
whichever comes first. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with
the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance
requirements.

(Item B4)
The Capital Construction Division has very successfully utilized time and materials contractors
throughout the Scattered Sites and Make Ready programs. These programs have been vital to
6

 meeting the Unit goals of the CHA in recent years. The temporary relocation of residents due to
demolition and renovation has been, and continues to be, extremely dependent upon providing
make ready housing in Family and scattered sites locations. The use of time and materials
contractors, in the past, has been critical in providing this temporary housing while developments
are rehabilitated. Current time and materials contracts are coming to an end. In keeping with
changes in the construction industry, the CHA seeks to issue new indefinite quantity contracts,
which are increasingly used by other government agencies. The indefinite quantity contracts
procured through this solicitation will allow the CHA the opportunity to create a predetermined
pool of contractors. The qualified contractors chosen for this pool will then have the opportunity
to competitively bid on task orders for work as it becomes available. In this way, the CHA will
be able to utilize the benefits of competitive bidding for individual task orders without having to
put out a separate solicitation to the general public for each one. The CHA has identified the
need to have contractors available for task order work as an opportunity for an alternative
procurement process under HUD regulations, in order to enhance the economic opportunities of
our residents by soliciting and contracting with Resident Owned Businesses (ROB) for
construction services. This solicitation was prepared with the intent to bolster the capacity, and
expand the experience of the selected ROB firms. In November 2004, the CHA published an
Invitation for Bids (IFB) to solicit ROB general contractor firms to perform construction services
under task orders at various CHA scattered sites, make ready, and select Family development
locations. The Procurement Department directly solicited fourteen (14) ROBs by phone and all
fourteen (14) ROBs picked up copies of the solicitation. Of the five bids received, the
Procurement Department has determined that all five (5) of the ROB firms were responsive and
responsible and should be awarded contracts. Performance on ongoing task order assignments
will be a factor to determine future awards of specific task orders. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item B4 approves award of contract with five ROBs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE INDEFINITE QUANTITY
CONTRACTS WITH FIVE (5) RESIDENT OWNED BUSINESSES TO
PERFORM CONSTRUCTION SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA SCATTERED
SITES, MAKE READY, AND SELECTED FAMILY DEVELOPMENT
LOCATIONS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute five (5), two (2) year term indefinite quantity contracts with
FOIC, Go Floor It, Inc./Conley Construction (JV), Jonz Construction, Stoddn
Construction/AD & D (JV), and T-Mechanical, each with a $50,000.00 minimum
guaranteed amount of work and a $580,000.00 maximum not-to-exceed contract
amount to perform task order construction services on a competitive basis at
various CHA scattered sites, make ready, and selected Family development
locations. The total aggregate not-to-exceed amount for all five (5) contracts is
$2,900,000.00. These awards are subject to the individual Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
bonding, licensing and insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
Similar to Item B4, Item B5 approves award of twenty one task order contracts. The Task Order
Contracts procured through this solicitation will allow the CHA the opportunity to maintain a
pool of qualified construction firms under contract at pre-established rates. The qualified
contractors selected for Task Order contracts will then have the opportunity to competitively bid
on individual task orders as work becomes available. The Task Order contracts will assure the
CHA is getting the broadest possible participation in its ongoing construction activity, and
provide a hedge against the potential escalation of construction costs. With these Task Order
contracts, small contractors should be better able to compete with large contractors on smaller,
more bondable work. Performance on ongoing task order assignments will be a factor to
determine future awards of specific task orders. No firm is guaranteed anything more than the
7

 one hundred-thousand ($100,000.00) minimum. On an as-needed basis, the CHA Contracting
Officer may evaluate requests from CCD and make adjustments, based upon performance, to the
not-to-exceed contract amounts of vendors’ contracts within the restrictions of the total aggregate
amount set forth above for all twenty-one (21) contracts.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE TWENTY ONE (21) TASK
ORDER CONTRACTS TO PERFORM CONSTRUCTION SERVICES AT
VARIOUS CHA SCATTERED SITES, MAKE READY, AND SELECT
FAMILY DEVELOPMENT LOCATIONS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to award twenty-one (21), two (2) year term, indefinite quantity task
order contracts to perform construction services at various CHA Scattered Sites,
Make Ready, and select Family Developments for an aggregate amount not-toexceed thirty-nine million, one hundred-thousand ($39,100,000.00) dollars,
subject to all Contractors providing proof or receipt of its General Contractor’s
License from the City of Chicago. The twenty-one (21) contractors to be awarded
contracts are as follows:

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

Recommended Firms
All Chicago
Blinderman Construct.
C&P Maintenance
C&H Joint Ventures
Cotton Construction
Done Rite Construction
Exodus Coalition
FHP Tectonics
HLF Construction
J&L Associates
Maxwell Services

12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Recommended Firms
Najlia International
New Day Construction
Oakk Construction Co.
Oakley Construction
Old Veterans Construct.
Panda Industries
Star & Crest
Telander Construction
Unico Enterprises
Urban Properties

Each contract will provide a guaranteed minimum compensation amount of one
hundred-thousand ($100,000.00) dollars of work and an initial not-to-exceed
contract amount of approximately one million, eight-hundred sixty thousand
($1,860,000.00) dollars.
On an as needed basis, the CHA Contracting Officer may evaluate requests from
the Capital Construction Division and make adjustments, based upon
performance, to the not-to-exceed contract amounts of vendors’ contracts within
the restrictions of the total aggregate amount set forth above for all twenty-one
(21) contracts. These awards are subject to the individual Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.
(Item B6)
In order to foster the health and safety of CHA residents and the general public, professional
environmental remediation services are needed by the CHA to address environmental hazards
such as lead, mold and asbestos throughout the CHA as they occur in developments not currently
under renovation. In January 2005, a Request for Proposal was issued to solicit firms who would
be on call to address time sensitive demands for remediation services including, but not limited
to, lead abatement, encapsulation of components (walls and ceilings), chemical stripping of
components, enclosure of components, removal of asbestos-containing materials, mold
remediation, and trash removal in Units in developments not currently scheduled for renovation
or demolition. This will allow the CHA to promptly issue task orders to correct such
environmental hazards as soon as they are identified. The RFP was advertised in area
newspapers, and on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited four M/W/DBE firms.
Five (5) proposals were received. All proposals were evaluated pursuant to the RFP’s stated
8

 evaluation criteria. Two (2) firms were determined to be within the competitive range.
Discussions were then held with each of these firms, after which they were asked to submit best
and final fee proposals. Accordingly the resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to the
two firms in the competitive range.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-53
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 13,
2005 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH
ENVIROPLUS, INC. AND TECNICA ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE, INC.
FOR
AUTHORITY-WIDE
ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION
SERVICES - RFP NO. 01361”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into two contracts for Authority-wide environmental
remediation services for a two (2) year base term for an aggregate cost not to
exceed $2,000,000 with two (2), one (1) year renewal options with:
1. Enviroplus, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed $1,040,000; and
2. Tecnica Environmental Services, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed
$960,000.
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements

(Item B7)
In February 2005, the CHA advertised Invitation for Bid (“IFB”) for modernization of the
Family Housing at Altgeld Gardens – Phase 1 (IL2-007) at 130th Street and Ellis Avenue. The
modernization at Altgeld Gardens, requires a contractor to perform general modernization of
apartment units and common areas, façade repairs, and building site improvements. Specifically,
the work will include interior and exterior renovation work necessary to complete the units, as
indicated in the drawings and technical specifications attached to the IFB, as well as landscape
work, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and HVAC work, and cable TV and telephone work on
the site. The general contractor will also perform selective demolition and hazardous material
remediation and install new underground plumbing to connect the new piping to the main
service. The CHA has designed the renovation of Altgeld Gardens in several phases and intends
to complete the project under several separate and sequential project contracts (Phases). The IFB
was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA’s website. Of the five bids received and
opened, Walsh Construction Company was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B7 approves award of contract to Walsh Construction
Company.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH WALSH
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR MODERNIZATION OF THE FAMILY
HOUSING AT ALTGELD GARDENS – PHASE 1 (IL2-007)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Walsh Construction Company in the amount
of $52,929,000.00 for modernization of the Family Housing at Altgeld Gardens –
Phase 1 (IL2-007), 130th Street and Ellis Avenue. The Contractor will start upon
issuance of the Notice to Proceed and all work will be completed in accordance
with the construction schedule provided in the Contract, and in no event later than
December 31, 2007. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance
requirements.

9

 (Item B8)
In October 2004, an RFP was advertised in area newspapers and the CHA website for general
contractor services at various CHA locations. The CHA also directly solicited thirty-four firms,
including twenty M/W/DBE firms. The General Contractor will be expected to provide complete
general contracting services for the Development(s) awarded to that General Contractor. Those
services will include, without limitation, the furnishing of all labor, materials, tools, equipment
and transportation to complete the rehabilitation of the Development(s) awarded to that General
Contractor, and the coordination of the work and supervision of the various subcontractors. The
CHA received four (4) written proposals. Two of the four proposals were found to be
unresponsive as the packages were incomplete. An Evaluation Committee reviewed and scored
the two remaining proposals. Upon further consideration of each Respondent following the
presentations and negotiations, the Evaluation Committee recommended that FHP Tectonics
Corporation be awarded the contract for General Contractor services at Harrison Courts and
Loomis Courts, and that Friedler Construction be awarded the contract for General Contractor
services at Lathrop Elderly. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B8 approves contract awards to
FHP Tectonics and Friedler Construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH FHP
TECTONICS CORPORATION AND FRIEDLER CONSTRUCTION FOR
GENERAL CONTRACTOR’S SERVICES AT HARRISON COURTS,
LATHROP ELDERLY AND LOOMIS COURTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with FHP Tectonics Corporation for general
contractor’s services at Harrison Courts (RH-5) in the amount of $13,447,975.00
and at Loomis Courts (RH-7) in the amount of $13,227,065.00, and with Friedler
Construction in the amount of $8,754,022.00 for General Contractor’s services at
Lathrop Elderly (RH-4). Harrison Courts is located at 910-30-50 West Harrison,
Loomis Courts is located at 1314-42 West 15th Street, and Lathrop Elderly is
located at 2717 North Leavitt.
The contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed, and shall
continue until the completion of construction, which is expected to take
approximately two (2) years. The award of this contract is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves submission of a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for
Madden/Wells, Phase IB. The Madden/Wells Phase IB rental development represents the second
phase of redevelopment within the larger Madden/Wells plan to create 3,000 new, mixed income
rental and for-sale housing units. The rental units in Phase 1 will be developed by The
Community Builders, Inc., and Granite Development Corporation. Of the 325 rental units in
Phase 1, 126 are public housing, 104 are affordable, and 95 are market rate. The rental units will
be developed in two sub-phases - Phase IA (163 units) and Phase IB (162 units). The name of the
project partnership for Phase IB is Madden Wells Phase IB Associates Limited Partnership, an
Illinois limited partnership (Limited Partnership IB”), with Madden Wells Phase IB Associates,
LLC, an Illinois limited liability company, as general partner for Limited Partnership IB.
Madden Wells Phase IB Associates, LLC is owned by The Community Builders, Inc. (70%) and
Granite Development (30%). The project partnership will enter into a 99-year ground lease with
CHA for the Phase IB Rental Development Site. The Mixed Finance Proposal to be submitted to
HUD sets forth the financing structure for the Phase IB Rental development, to which the CHA,
The Habitat Company LLC, the City of Chicago and other investors have agreed in principle.
Phase IB is bounded by E. 38th Street on the north, the alley east of S. Ellis Ave. on the east, E.
Pershing Road (39th Street) on the south, and S. Langley Blvd. on the west. Pursuant to a
Regulatory and Operating Agreement, the CHA will provide an operating subsidy to the public
housing units within the development. Furthermore, in order to ensure that all of the Board’s
approval of its actions taken for the Madden Wells Phase IA and Phase IB Developments
conforms with all pertinent regulations, policies and statutes, the Board should confirm and
10

 readopt any and all approvals and actions taken relative to these development projects to
implement the Board actions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 4, 2005,
requesting approval of the submission of a Mixed Finance Proposal to the U. S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the Madden/Wells
Phase IB redevelopment project; to execute such other documents as may be
required to implement the foregoing; and to confirm and readopt all approvals and
actions previously approved or taken by the Chicago Housing Authority with
respect to the Madden Wells Phase IA and Phase IB Developments.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the submission by the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee of a Mixed Finance Proposal to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development for the Madden/Wells Phase IB redevelopment
project; to execute such documents and take such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing; and to confirm and readopt all approvals
and actions previously approved or taken by the Chicago Housing Authority with
respect to the Madden Wells Phase IA and Phase IB Developments.

(Item B10)
In June 2001, the development team of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC was selected to be
the developer for the redevelopment of the CHA’s Madden Wells Site. In June 2003, the Board
approved entering into a Master Development Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates,
LLC. Pursuant to the Redevelopment Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site
remediation for pre-existing conditions on the entire development site, subject to certain rights to
terminate for infeasibility. The estimated remediation costs for the Rental development is
$3,000,000.00. CHA’s contractual responsibility to remediate foreseen and unforeseen
environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost. Site preparation has
begun in order to begin the development activities for this redevelopment. Coordination
meetings have taken place over the past several months with various agencies both public and
private that will take part in the construction activities on the site. All of the necessary
environmental reports and studies have been completed and the prerequisite approvals obtained.
The Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC team was the successful respondent pursuant to the
September 2001 solicitation issued by Habitat for the redevelopment of the Madden/Wells site.
HUD has indicated that since a competitive process was engaged to procure the Madden Wells
Redevelopment Team as identified in the Plan approved by HUD, and since the engineered
barrier approach to remediation involves construction elements to be performed post-closing,
there is justification to enter into this contract with Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC.
Various benefits to the project will be realized by entering into a contract for remediation
activities with Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC. The benefits namely are: (1) continuity of
schedule; (2) continuity of activity; and (3) economy of scale. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B10 approves award of contract to Oakwood Boulevard Associates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, March 15,
2005, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
OAKWOOD BOULEVARD ASSOCIATES, LLC FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES AT THE MADDEN WELLS PHASE IB
REDEVELOPMENT SITE”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC for a
total contract amount not to exceed $3,000,000.00 which represents 200% of the
estimated remediation cost for the Madden Wells Phase IB Rental Redevelopment
Site to perform remediation in support of the Madden Wells Phase IB
Redevelopment Site (also known as Oakwood Shores). The term of the Oakwood
Boulevard Associates, LLC contract for the Rental Properties shall be the earlier
of: receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental
11

 Protection Agency with regards to the Madden Wells IB Redevelopment Site, or
two years, subject to a one year extension if approved by HUD.
(Item B11)
The former Montgomery Ward property located near Chicago Avenue and Larrabee is being
redeveloped into a residential community with some commercial and retail facilities. The overall
development will consist of approximately 700 new residential units and 1,800,000 square feet
of retail/commercial space extending among seven different parcels of land. The City of Chicago
requires that 10% of the total number of units within the development area is constructed as
replacement housing for the Cabrini Green Extension North site. The CHA has purchased 16 of
the 70 units that will be provided within this development area as replacement housing. These 16
units were purchased within the Domain Lofts building on December 31, 2003. River Village
South is one of the seven sites within the development area and is being developed jointly by
The Enterprise Companies, PBR Realty and the Federal National Mortgage Association. River
Village South is bounded by Oak Street to the north, Crosby Street to the east, and Kingsbury
Street to the west. River Village South will provide 18 replacement housing units for the Cabrini
Extension North site. The site will consist of 173 units: twenty-seven 3-flat buildings and
townhomes. The resolution for Item B11 approves the purchase of 18 two-bedroom units. The
purchase of these units will help satisfy the Gautreaux Court Order and the Cabrini Consent
Decree that requires the replacement of 700 public housing units for Cabrini Extension North
families.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated April 15, 2005
requesting authorization to submit an acquisition package to HUD, enter into a
purchase agreement with River Village Townhomes South, LLC and to execute
other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to submit an acquisition package to HUD; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a purchase agreement with River Village Townhomes
South, LLC utilizing the Cabrini 1994 HOPE VI funds to acquire 18 housing
units; and

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to enter into such further agreements, and certificates as necessary to
implement the foregoing.

(Item B12)
In accordance with the amended Consent Decree at Horner, the CHA is to provide private
security for the rehabilitated units, which include limited lobby access. The Westhaven Annex
building is located at 1815 W. Monroe and falls under the Consent Decree’s requirements for
twenty-four hour security. Interstate Realty Management Company released the RFP for
security services to serve and secure the Westhaven Annex building in December 2004. It was
advertised in the area newspapers and three firms were directly solicited. Of the two proposals
received Allpoints Security achieved the best score in the evaluation process and was found to be
a responsible vendor capable of providing the requesting service. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B12 approves award of contract to Allpoints Security.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 9, 2005
entitled “Approval For Interstate Realty Management Company To Enter Into A
Firm, Fixed Fee Contract with Allpoints Security and Detective, Inc. for Henry
Horner Homes/Westhaven Apartments Annex”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby gives approval for Interstate Realty, property
manager for Henry Horner Homes/Westhaven Apartments to enter into a fixed fee
contract for two years with a one year option with Allpoints Security and
12

 Detective, Inc. for security services at the Westhaven Annex building in an
amount not to exceed $609,229.12 for an initial term of two (2) years, with an
option for a one (1) year extension, subject to Board approval.
(Item B13)
In order to make land available for the next phase of redevelopment in the Henry Horner
community, the CHA closed several buildings within the boundaries of Lake, Washington,
Wolcott and Wood. As a result, the CHA made a commitment to relocate those displaced,
including the Major Adams Youth Academy. This organization is a not-for-profit agency that
provides a variety of programs for the residents in the Henry Horner community, primarily
focusing on after-school programs for children. The CHA has temporarily relocated the Major
Adams Youth Academy to Suder School. The Chicago Public Schools has leased Suder School
to the Major Adams Youth Academy for an initial period of six months, and has agreed to extend
the lease for an additional two years: from June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2007. The resolution for Item
B13, approves commencement of procurement activities to contract the consultants needed,
including an A/E firm and/or a community facilities planning and development expert, in order
to convert the 125 North Hoyne building into a community center that can accommodate the
Major Adams Youth Academy’s programs. Some of the specific services to be solicited will
include, but not be limited to, providing an assessment of existing building plans and previous
building evaluations; recommendations for the redesign of the building and operation of the
community facility; and a preliminary schematic layout. Upon the completion of the
procurement process, the CHA will make a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners to
approve a resolution that will allow the CHA to enter into a contract with the vendor selected.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 21, 2005 entitled “Request for Authorization to
Commence Procurement Activities for the Redesign of 125 North Hoyne for Use
as a Community Center and the Future Site for the Major Adams Youth
Academy”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to commence procurement activities for the redesign of a CHA-owned
building located at 125 North Hoyne building for use as a community center and
the future site for the Major Adams Youth Academy.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B13 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce (Recused from voting on item B5 only)
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on items B9 & B10)

Nays:

None

Commissioner Ponce recused from voting on Item B5 only and Commissioner Young recused
from voting on Items B9 & B10.
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of Finance & Audit Committee,
Commissioner Healey presented the monthly Finance Committee report. Per Commissioner
Healey the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, April 13, 2005 at

13

 approximately 3:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The Chief Financial Officer
presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of March 31, 2005.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 through C4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves submission of the Revised 2005 Comprehensive Budget to
HUD. The Chicago Housing Authority is required to submit for approval by the Board, a
balanced annual Comprehensive Budget. The FY2005 budgeted expenditures have been revised
from $945,974,314 to $932,295,345, resulting in a $13,678,969 decrease. Under the General
Fund, total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $8,990,169 for a fund total of
$817,602,017. This decrease is due to adjustments to unit projections for redevelopment and
rehabilitation activities at various CHA properties. Under the Section 8 Non MTW funds, total
revenues and associated expenditures increased by $100,272 due to HAP funding increase and
under the HOPE VI Fund, total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $4,628,068
primarily due to adjustments to projected redevelopment activities at various CHA MixedIncome properties. Other Funding decreased by $161,004 for a fund total of $16,733,387. This
decrease is primarily due to adjustments to projected redevelopment activities at various CHA
Mixed-Income properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated March 18, 2005,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2005 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2005 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #1”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 extends the Crowe Chizek existing accounting services contract.
Given the past history of RMC financial reporting, it is essential that the Authority continue to
utilize Crowe Chizek & Co. to perform accounting responsibilities for these properties so that the
CHA has a thorough review process in place to monitor the effectiveness of its policies and
practices. The accounting function is a critical element for establishing the controls and
operational discipline. By outsourcing this function to a professional accounting firm, the CHA
can continue to benefit from the comprehensive expertise provided by a private firm.
Responsibilities included in the accounting services provided are submission of monthly
financial packages including account reconciliations and the development of RMC accounting
procedures. Crowe has provided the CHA with satisfactory service and has performed all tasks
expected of the RMC accountants.

14

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated April 13, 2005 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 0369 WITH CROWE CHIZEK AND COMPANY, LLP”;
FOR ACCOUNTING SERVICES FOR THE RESIDENT MANAGEMENT
COMPANIES
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 0369 with CROWE,
LLP (“Contract”) for the period of May 1, 2005 through April 30, 2006 to provide
accounting services for the RMCs for a total amount not-to-exceed $350,000
pursuant to the Contract’s option to extend.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves an agreement with Rita Fry to serve as the Relocation
Monitor. Under the provision of the CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights
Contract, the CHA is responsible for the employment of an independent auditor to ensure
monitoring and tracking of the relocation process. Both the CHA and CAC agree that monitoring
of the relocation process in 2005 should be performed by Rita Fry. Ms. Fry ably served as the
Monitor for the past year. Ms. Fry has extensive experience in dealing with issues of this
importance. As monitor, Ms. Fry will be responsible for reviewing CHA’s contractual obligation
to residents in two areas of the relocation process: Phase V of the “move out” process for
families moving out of their current development; and the “move in” process in 2005 for families
moving into replacement housing at the sites where rehabilitation of public housing and
redevelopment of mixed income communities has begun. Ms. Fry will review CHA’s process
for both move out and move in to determine how effectively CHA is implementing the Contract,
and whether CHA effectively addresses instances of undue hardship experienced by residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-63
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 13, 2005
titled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT WITH RITA
A. FRY TO SERVE AS RELOCATION MONITOR;”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a one-year agreement for Rita Fry to serve as Monitor for
the CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract and the
CHA Relocation Rights Contract for Families with Initial Occupancy after
10/1/99 in an amount not to exceed $500,000 with Mrs. Fry’s consulting firm
RAF Consulting, Inc.

(Item C4)
For the past two years, NLEN has subleased the CHA-owned property located at 3726-28 W.
Flournoy. Under this sublease arrangement, NLEN has undertaken responsibility for all of the
lease obligations of the CHA’s initial lessee relative to the subject property. NLEN has occupied
the property exclusively and invested a significant amount of financial resources in rehabilitating
the property. The current lease that allows NLEN to occupy the subject property will expire on
April 30, 2005. NLEN’s mission is to improve the earning potential of the North Lawndale
community, including public housing residents, through innovative employment initiatives that
lead to economic advancement and an improved quality of life. NLEN specializes in formerly
incarcerated men and women seeking entry-level employment. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item C4 approves a two (2) year non-dwelling lease with the North Lawndale Employment
Network.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-64
WHEREAS,
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the Board Letter dated April 19, 2005 entitled “Authorization to Enter into a
Non-Dwelling Lease with the North Lawndale Employment Network”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

15

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to execute a two (2) year non-dwelling lease with the North
Lawndale Employment Network. Unless sooner terminated by CHA, the lease
may be renewed, subject to Board of Commissioner prior approval, for an
additional term of two (2) years. The rent amount for the initial term of the
lease shall be $1.00 per year

.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C4 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

16

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 