MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 17, 2013
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, December 17, 2013 at approximately 8:45 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
In the absence of Chairwoman Z. Scott, Vice Chair Rodrigo Sierra called the meeting to order and
upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Jack Markowski
Myra King
Rodrigo Sierra

Absent:

Harriet Johnson
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer, Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairman Sierra and properly seconded by Commissioner Markowski, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairman Sierra announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss personnel
related matters and pending, probable or imminent litigation.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Jack Markowski
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Absent:
Harriet Johnson
Z. Scott
1

 There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and seconded by Commissioner Harris the Minutes
for the Regular and Closed meetings of October 29, 2013 and November 19, 2013 were unanimously
approved as submitted.
Commissioner Mark Cozzi, Chairman of the Personnel Committee then presented his committee
report. Per Commissioner Cozzi, the Personnel Committee meeting was held on Monday, December
9, 2013 at 9:00 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices. The Committee discussed, voted and
recommended for Board approval the item appearing on the Agenda. The same item was also
presented and discussed with the full Board at today’s Closed meeting.
On behalf of the Personnel Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then presented a Motion for approval of
Item 1:
(Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2013–CHA-113
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 9, 2013,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Action”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel action.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item1 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Jack Markowski then presented the report of the Finance Committee. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, December 11,
2013 at the CHA Corporate Offices, 3rd Floor.
On behalf of the Finance Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented a Motion for the
approval of Item 2:

2

 (Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves the FY2014 Comprehensive Budget. The CHA is required to
submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget detailing each of its
funding sources (MTW Fund, Section 8 Non-MTW fund, HOPE VI and Other Grant Programs) and,
the use of budgeted funds. The FY2014 Comprehensive Budget totaling $1.026 billion includes the
following fund categories: MTW Fund: total revenue for FY2014 is $999 million. The MTW Fund
combines the Low-Rent, Capital and Section 8 programs into a block grant as allowed by HUD under
the Amended and Restated MTW agreement. Total MTW Fund revenues consist of Dwelling Rental
Income, Interest Income, Capital Grant Funds, Housing Assistance Subsidy, Operating Subsidy, MTW
Reserves and Other Income. Section 8 Fund (Non-MTW): total revenue for this program is $15.5
million. These contracts provide appropriations for approximately 1,276 of Mod Rehab vouchers, 682
Veteran's Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers, 146 Choice Neighborhood vouchers, and 50
Mainstream vouchers for housing assistance based on annual contributions contracts from HUD. Hope
VI Fund: total revenue equals $9.8 million. These funds are used to support relocation, revitalization,
community and supportive services programs. Other Funds: total revenue is $2 million. Revenue
consists of federal and local grants that will be used to enhance or augment funding for critical
programs and services that the CHA provides to its residents. The estimated sum of all revenues for
FY2014 plus the amount of FY2013 fund balance available for appropriation in FY2014 is equal to the
estimated sum of all expenditures to be made/incurred during FY2014 and any unpaid liabilities at the
beginning of FY2014.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-114
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated December 11, 2013,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2014 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached,
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”, and finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

“FY2014

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources adequate
to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of Federal
funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the applicable Federal
regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with the
Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the
Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute and
forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all necessary
budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

3

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations Committee did not officially meet, however,
Commissioners and the public were briefed on items appearing on the agenda, and the items were open
to comments and questions from Commissioners and the public, but for the record, no vote was taken.
Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 3 through 9.
(Item 3)
In June 2013, the CHA requested submissions of qualifications from interested Developers for the
acquisition, development and management of mixed income developments. As part of the Unit
Delivery Strategy, the Request For Qualification (RFQ) was created to initiate the Plan Forward
commitment to complete the delivery of 25,000 units. The Unit Delivery Strategy is to build on
CHA’s experience working with private development teams and owners to supply quality housing that
enables low-income families to maximize their potential for long-term economic success. The RFQ
provides a method to prequalify developers and creates opportunities for the CHA to: 1) Acquire
public housing units in mixed income, mixed use and turnkey developments in Opportunity and
General Areas in Chicago; 2) acquire turnkey off-site public housing units through CHA’s Real Estate
Acquisition Program (REAP) and 3) Solicit proposals from Private Development Teams through the
issuance of Opportunity Notices for on-site developments on vacant CHA properties. The selected
respondents will be issued a “Letter of Qualification” and have two years from the date of that letter to
submit proposals to the CHA. CHA may acquire units or enter into long term leases for the units,
subject to Board, HUD, or other necessary approvals. The selected respondents provided commitment
letters giving their best faith estimates of unit deliveries. Therefore to fund the acquisitions under this
portion of the unit delivery strategy, the below resolution also approves funding of $72,000,000.00 for
the Real Estate Acquisition Program over the two year Qualification Period. The Board will receive
quarterly unit delivery reports.
At the December 11, 2013 committee meeting, staff originally recommended that 27 Development
Teams be approved. Based on further review of the financials, three respondents were removed from
the initial list.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-115
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO APPROVE 24 Development Teams for
4

 Subsidized Family Housing Unit Delivery and approve Real Estate Acquisition
Program Funding in an Amount Not-to-Exceed $72,000,000.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve the below 24 Development Teams for subsidized Family Housing unit delivery
and approve Real Estate Acquisition Program funding in an amount not-to-exceed
$72,000,000. Units that are not Family Housing will require Board Approval.
Mixed Finance (Mixed-Income/Use, Real
Estate
Acquisition
Program and Turnkey)
Developers
Boulevard Group Inc. and Mercy Housing
Lakefront
Brinshore Development, LLC
Celadon - KMA, LLC and A Safe Haven
Partnership
Flaherty & Collins Properties
Globetrotters Engineering Corporation
Gorman & Company, Inc.
Heartland Housing, Inc.
Holsten
Real
Estate
Development
Corporation
Hunt Companies
Related Midwest
SG/Premier - Senco Development and
Galvan Associates, LLC.
(Joint Venture)
St. Edmund's Redevelopment Corporation
The Community Builders
The Habitat Company
The Michaels Development Company
The NHP Foundation
The Resurrection Project
Tria
Adelfi
LLC
and
Intricate
Development Inc. (Joint
Venture)
Turnstone Development

Turnkey (Only) Developers

Breaking Ground
Century Development Group
Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Corporation
Genesis Housing Development Corporation
Hispanic Housing Development Corporation

This award is subject to the Developers’ compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident and insurance requirements.

(Item 4)
In September 2013, the CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in area newspapers and on CHA’s
website . to provide construction services for the modernization and life safety upgrades at Major
Robert Lawrence Apartments. The City of Chicago Code requires life safety building systems to be
5

 code compliant by the end of December 2014. The CHA received and opened eight bids and the
lowest bidder was Old Veteran Construction, Inc. at $10,138,000. Major Robert Lawrence Apartments
is a senior development located at 655 West 65th Street. Built in 1967, the building is fourteen stories
tall, covering one hundred ninety-three units. The Apartments were rehabilitated in 2003. In 2009
selected units were remodeled to meet current accessibility requirements. The proposed scope of work
for this project includes, but is not limited to, the following: Fire Life Safety Improvements; ADA
Rehabilitation; Mechanical Electrical and Plumbing Improvements; Unit Improvements; Interior and
Exterior Common Area Improvements. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 4 approves award of
contract to Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the firm fixed price of $10,746,280 in the aggregate, for
the renovation of Major Lawrence Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-116
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH OLD VETERAN
CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR THE MODERNIZATION AND LIFE SAFETY
UPGRADES AT MAJOR ROBERT LAWRENCE APARTMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. for the modernization and life
safety upgrades at Major Robert Lawrence Apartments in the in the firm fixed amount
of $10,138,000 plus a not to exceed amount of $608,280 in contingency (which is in
line with industry standards)strictly limited to potential change orders justified as a
Discovered Condition or City of Chicago Building Code changes for a total amount not
to exceed $10,746,280. The life safety portion of the Scope of Work is to be completed
by no later than November 30, 2014. The balance of the Scope of Work is to be
completed within five hundred forty (540) calendar days of the date set forth in the
Notice to Proceed. The Apartments are located at 655 West 65th Street in Chicago, IL.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 5)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in October 2013 soliciting General Contractors to provide
construction services for the modernization and life safety upgrades at Minnie Riperton Apartments.
The advertisement ran in area newspapers and on the CHA website. Of the seven bids received the
low bidder was Old Veteran Construction, Inc. at $13,989,900. Minnie Riperton Apartments is a senior
development located at 4250 South Princeton Avenue. Built in 1970, the building is fourteen (14)
stories tall, covering three hundred thirty-nine (339) units. The Apartments were rehabilitated in 2001.
In 2008 selected units were remodeled to meet current accessibility requirements. The proposed scope
of work for this project includes, but is not limited to, the following: Mechanical Electrical and
Plumbing Improvements; Unit Improvements; Interior Common Area Improvements and Life Safety
Improvements. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 5 approves award of contract to Old Veteran
Construction in the firm fixed price of $14,829,294 in the aggregate, for the modernization and life
safety upgrades at Minnie Ripperton Apartments.

6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-117
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH OLD VETERAN
CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR THE MODERNIZATION AND LIFE SAFETY
UPGRADES AT MINNIE RIPERTON APARTMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. for the modernization and life
safety upgrades at Minnie Riperton Apartments in the firm fixed amount of $13,989,900
plus a not to exceed amount of $839,394 in contingency strictly limited to potential
change orders justified as a Discovered Condition or City of Chicago Building Code
changes for a total amount not to exceed $14,829,294. The life safety portion of the
Scope of Work is to be completed by no later than November 30, 2014. The balance of
the Scope of Work is to be completed within five hundred forty (540) calendar days of
the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. The Apartments are located at 4250 South
Princeton Avenue in Chicago, IL. The aggregate not-to exceed amount of this award is
$14,829,294.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 6)
On October 17, 2013 the CHA solicited General Contractors to provide construction services for the
modernization and life safety upgrades at Judge Frederick Slater Annex. The advertisement ran in area
newspapers on the CHA website, and on BuySpeed Online. The CHA received and opened six bids
and the lowest bidder was Madison Construction Company at $10,098,500. The City of Chicago Code
requires life safety building systems to be code compliant by the end of December 2014. Judge
Frederick Slater Annex is a senior development located at 4218 South Cottage Grove Avenue. Built in
1970, the building is nine (9) stories tall, covering two hundred three (203) units. The Annex was
rehabilitated in 2001. In 2008 selected units were remodeled to meet current accessibility
requirements. The proposed scope of work for this project includes, but is not limited to, the following:
Interior Mechanical Electrical and Plumbing Improvements; Unit Improvements; Interior Common
Area Improvements; Security Cameras; Lobby and Hallway enhancements; ADA Reception desk;
New ADA concrete sidewalks and ramps; New security fencing and Life Safety Improvements. The
CHA advertised Invitation for Bid 13 - 01218 on October 17, 2013. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item 6 approves award of contract to Madison Construction Company, not-to-exceed $10,704,410 in
the aggregate, for the modernization and life safety upgrades at Judge Slater Annex.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH MADISON
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR THE MODERNIZATION AND LIFE SAFETY
UPGRADES AT JUDGE FREDERICK SLATER ANNEX”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
7

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with Madison Construction Company for the modernization and
life safety upgrades at Judge Frederick Slater Annex in the amount of firm fixed
amount of $10,098,500 plus a not to exceed amount of $605,910 in contingency strictly
limited to potential change orders justified as a Discovered Condition or City of
Chicago Building Code changes for a total amount not to exceed $10,704,410 .The life
safety portion of the Scope of Work is to be completed by no later than November 30,
2014. The balance of the Scope of Work is to be completed within five hundred forty
(540) calendar days of the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. The Annex is located
at 4218 South Cottage Grove Avenue in Chicago, IL.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves contract modifications with Pan-Oceanic Engineering and Old
Veteran Construction, for various CHA Projects, in the cumulative total amount of $287,370.46. These
general contractors have an existing contract with the CHA where the total value of the contract
modifications has exceeded $100,000, triggering the Significant Action Policy. The listed contract
modifications are required to address the following issues: relocation of light pole to repair damage to
sewer; repair in-slab conduit for coring for the new plumbing risers and relocation of the Area of
Rescue as required by the Department of Buildings for permit. The Capital Construction Department
has verified that the amounts proposed to perform the work by the contractors are within an acceptable
range of the CHA’s Independent Cost Estimates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “APPROVAL OF CONTRACT MODIFICATIONS
FOR
VARIOUS
CHA PROJECTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

$ 1,505,380.75

8

Cumulative Amount Over
$100,000?

$ 1,437,500.00

All Change Orders as a
Cumulative % of Original
Contract

11117

Cumulative Change Order
Total

Fire Lane
Renovation
@ 2960 S.
Federal

Current Contract
Value

% of Contract - This Change
Order

Pan-Oceanic
Engineering

Original
Contract Value

Contract Modifications to be
Approved (December Board)

Project

Contract

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves $287,370.46 of contract modifications for
various Chicago Housing Authority projects with the following contractor:

General Contractor

THAT

Revised
Contract
Amount

$ 13,162.43

0.92%

$ 81,043.18

5.64%

No

$1,518,543.18

 Old Veteran
Construction

Mechanical
&
Plumbing
@ Patrick
Sullivan
Envelope

11120

$21,103,500.00

$ 21,593,172.86

$7,223.35

0.03%

$ 496,896.21

2.35%

Yes

$21,600,396.21

Old Veteran
Construction

Life Safety
& ADA
Upgrades
@ William
Jones Apts.

11288

$2,772,349.00

$2,785,028.63

$266,984.68

9.63%

$ 279,664.31

10.09%

Yes

$3,052,013.31

Cumulative Total

$ 287,370.46

This item is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.
(Item 8)
As a recipient of federal funding, CHA is mandated to provide accessible housing for people with
disabilities. CHA recently successfully fulfilled its obligations under a Voluntary Compliance
Agreement (VCA) with HUD that created a comprehensive planning tool, or Transition Plan, which
outlined the number of accessible units necessary for CHA to comply with all federal accessibility
requirements. In August 2013, A Request For Proposal was advertised in area newspapers and on
CHA website, requesting professional architectural accessibility consulting services. While eight firms
attended the Pre-Proposal meetings, only one firm, LCM Architects, submitted a proposal. The
services LCM provides are specialized and LCM has worked directly with the CHA for the past
several years as its VCA Third-Party Certifier to provide critical plan reviews and inspection services
that ensured full code compliance of the units CHA designated as accessible. CHA created a threestep process for its designated accessible units: a plan review, a pre-drywall inspection, and a final
certification inspection. By ensuring that designated accessible units underwent this process, CHA
currently has 1,685 certified fully accessible units for people with mobility and sensory impairments.
The continued provision of the key three-step process is vital to CHA’s on-going effort to comply with
all federal, State and local government accessibility statutes, regulations and codes. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 8 approves award of contract to LCM Architects for Professional Accessibility
Consulting Services, not-to-exceed $400,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-120
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH LCM
ARCHITECTS, LTD. FOR PROFESSIONAL ACCESSIBILITY CONSULTING
SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with LCM Architects, Ltd for professional architectural
accessibility consulting services for a two-year base period in an amount not to exceed
$400,000.00, and at their discretion and subject to funding availability and satisfactory
contract performance, exercise two, one-year options not to exceed $200,000.00 per
option year.

9

 This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 approves the second year extension option for the lease agreement with a
Safe Haven Foundation for the premises located at 2750 West Roosevelt for a total cost of $187,398.
The CHA provides two community facilities, 2750 W. Roosevelt being one of these locations, in
addition to 60 E. Van Buren (Central Offices) for the HCV Program. Services provided at these
locations include Participant Re-certifications and Briefings, Landlord Workshops, Family SelfSufficiency Workshops and Family Obligations Training. CHA has used the community facilities
since the 2010 Public Housing Wait List Opening.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter December 11, 2013
requesting authorization to execute an Amendment to the Office Space Lease by and
between A Safe Haven Foundation and Chicago Housing Authority and to exercise the
second and final year extension option
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designees to
execute an Amendment to the Office Space Lease by and between A Safe Haven and
Chicago Housing Authority and to exercise the second year extension option. The Total
Gross Rent amount for this extension option is in an amount not-to-exceed $186,798
and $600 for any fees assessed for additional services as provided for in the Lease such
as, but not limited to, room set-up fees, light installation and materials, for a total
amount not-to-exceed $187,398.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 3 through 9 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Mildred Harris, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
report. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee did not officially meet, however,
Commissioners and the public were briefed on the items appearing on the agenda, and the items were
open to comments and questions from Commissioners and the public, but for the record, no vote was
taken.

10

 On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris presented an Omnibus Motion for
the approval of Items 10 through 14.
(Item 10)
The resolution for item 10 approves the fourth one-year option of contracts with Centers for New
Horizons, Employment & Employer Services, Heartland Human Care Services, Metropolitan Family
Services and Uhlich Children’s Advantage Network; approves the first one-year option of a contract
with Near West side Community Development and extends contract with Holsten Real Estate
Development Corporation, LR ABLA LLC and Brinshore Michaels Taylor LLC as service providers
for CHA families, for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $21,680,000. As part of CHA’s Plan
Forward: Communities that Work, Resident Services is charged with providing case coordination and
direct services for CHA residents. In 2014, the service providers will have a focus on providing
targeted services to address individual resident needs. The targeted services model will focus outreach
on families who need it, including adults who are unemployed, families who retain their Right of
Return pursuant to CHA’s Relocation Rights Contract and CHA youth. All other residents are able to
continue to access services by contacting their assigned service provider to request the specific
assistance needed. The redefined service model will have an intentional focus on three main areas: 1)
Self Sufficiency Services that focus on increasing economic self-sufficiency in preparation to transition
from subsidized housing; 2) Youth Empowerment Services to outreach to youth about new programs
with providers and existing programs within the community; and 3) Quality of Life Services to help
families remain stable in housing. As services for residents have continued to evolve each year, the
targeted service model allows providers to better tailor services to individual resident needs without
sacrificing available resources for families. Services will continue to be available to all residents,
including, but not limited to: Housing stability services for those with lease compliance issues;
Financial management programming; Education and literacy services, including referral to City
Colleges and CHA’s adult basic education partners; Workforce services, including Job Readiness
Training, connections to training programs (through CHA and other partners), and job placement and
retention services; Mental health and well-being services; Referrals to other youth, adult and senior
services. Resident Services previously entered into contracts with these nine firms for service
provision. Three of these contracts were initiated through a non-competitive procurement based on the
Master Development Agreements (MDA) with the developers at mixed income sites (BMT, LR ABLA
and Holsten). The other six were initiated based on a competitive procurement completed in 2009 for
the FamilyWorks program (CNH, EES, HHCS, MFS and UCAN) and a competitive procurement in
2011 for the Horner Engagement Program (NWS).
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FOURTH ONE YEAR OPTION
OF CONTRACTS WITH CENTERS FOR NEW HORIZONS, EMPLOYMENT &
EMPLOYER
SERVICES, HEARTLAND
HUMAN CARE
SERVICES,
METROPOLITAN FAMILY SERVICES AND UHLICH CHILDREN’S
ADVANTAGE NETWORK, EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE YEAR OPTION OF A
CONTRACT WITH NEAR WEST SIDE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION AND EXTEND CONTRACTS WITH HOLSTEN REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, LR ABLA LLC AND BRINSHORE MICHAELS
TAYLOR LLC AS SERVICE PROVIDERS FOR CHA FAMILIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

11

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
(1) exercise the fourth one year option of Contract No. 9121 with Centers for New
Horizons in an amount not-to-exceed $3,180,000, Contract No. 9124 with Employment
and Employer Services in an amount not-to-exceed $6,835,000, Contract No. 9122 with
Heartland Human Care Services in an amount not-to-exceed $2,637,000, Contract No.
9123 with Metropolitan Family Services in an amount not-to-exceed $3,240,000, and
Contract No. 9126 with Uhlich Children’s Advantage Network in an amount not-toexceed $3,295,000; (2) exercise the first one year option of Contract No. 11066 with
Near West Side Community Development Corporation in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,683,000; and (3) extend Contract No. 11204 with Holsten Real Estate Development
Corporation in an amount not-to-exceed $370,000, Contract No. 11205 with LR ABLA,
LLC in an amount not-to-exceed $253,600 and Contract No. 11285 with Brinshore
Michaels Taylor, LLC in an amount not-to-exceed $186,400, for an aggregate not-toexceed amount of $21,680,000, as service providers for CHA residents for the period of
January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3, and insurance requirements.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with City Colleges of Chicago
(CCC), not-to-exceed $1,000,000 to provide education and training programs for CHA residents.
CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with supporting families on the path to self-sufficiency,
which includes encouraging families to achieve economic independence. To accomplish this goal,
CHA has partnered with CCC since 2005 to provide education and training programs for CHA
residents. The goal of the IGA with CCC has been to support families by creating a continuum of
education and training opportunities that allow CHA residents to advance progressively to higher
levels of education over time and obtain certification, degrees and employment that should ultimately
result in better paying careers in areas of industry growth and stability. In 2014, the IGA with CCC
will continue to provide tuition for CHA residents to attend CCC programs, after financial aid is
applied. Residents can participate in certificate programs and earn their Associates Degree at City
College locations throughout Chicago, in most cases at no cost. The IGA allows for the delivery of
educational services for CHA residents at various educational levels and provides support while
residents are engaged in CCC programs. In 2014, CCC will continue to be an integral partner in
CHA’s summer youth program, Learn and Earn, as CHA is able to leverage program classroom space
and computer labs at CCC campuses at no charge to CHA. CHA and CCC will continue to collaborate
on initiatives and launch targeted campaigns in specific industries to enhance outreach and promote the
education opportunities and services available.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-123
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY COLLEGES OF CHICAGO”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City Colleges of Chicago in an

12

 amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000.00 to provide education and training programs for
CHA residents for the period of January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 hiring, and insurance requirements.
(Item 12)
The resolution for item 12 approves award of contract to Chicago-Cook County Workforce Partnership
(CCWP), not-to-exceed $400,000 to provide employment placement and training services. CHA’s
Resident Services Division is charged with helping families move along the path to self-sufficiency. In
particular, a key deliverable in Plan Forward: Communities that Work is to help at least 6,000 adults
find new or better jobs by 2015. To accomplish this goal, CHA requires specialized workforce
development services. The Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership will provide employment and
training services for Section 3 residents seeking employment placement or to advance their career.
CCWP operates five workforce centers that are located throughout the city of Chicago. These centers
serve as community hubs where job seekers can access skilled vocational counseling and technology to
conduct their job search activities. CCWP offers workshops on interviewing skills, resume writing,
labor market research and other essential skills related to finding and keeping a job. Through this
agreement, CCWP will be able to more effectively market to and create employment seeking services
for CHA residents. CCWP seeks to help improve skills and increase exposure to workforce
opportunities including, but not limited to, enrollment in Workforce Investment Act (“WIA”)
programs, attending structured job clubs, enhancing technology related job seeking skills, job readiness
training and employment placement. Additionally, CCWP will provide access to adult literacy services
through assessment and multifaceted instruction (e.g. technology based, direct instruction and referral).
CCWP will seek to enroll 500 CHA residents in workforce development services during the first year
of this agreement. They will also support progress toward CHA’s requirements under the Section 3
Voluntary Compliance Agreement by increasing employment services to low-income Chicago
residents and publicizing all Section 3 positions that become available through CHA’s contractors.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH THE
CHICAGO COOK WORKFORCE PARTNERSHIP”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with the Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership to provide
employment placement and training services in an amount not-to-exceed $400,000 for
the period of January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with Chicago Park District
(CPD), not-to-exceed $450,000 to provide year round programs to CHA youth. CHA’s Resident
Services Division is charged with supporting youth and adults on the path to self-sufficiency, which
13

 includes providing positive engagement opportunities for youth during out-of-school time. To assist in
meeting this goal, CHA partners with CPD to provide year round park district programs for CHA
youth. Since 2002, CHA and CPD have collaborated to provide year round park district programs for
CHA youth who otherwise may not be able to participate due to cost. The IGA offers reduced
program fees for CHA youth ($5-$15 depending on the program) and the remaining program fees are
split between CHA and CPD. Youth are able to participate in summer day camp, “Park Kids” after
school programs, and vacation camps during spring, fall and winter breaks. CPD programs provide
youth with age appropriate activities while assisting working parents by offering safe and constructive
programs for children during out-of-school time. CHA will continue to encourage participation in
additional CPD programs and will continue to collaborate with CPD to continue to bring supplemental
programming to Park Districts near CHA developments (e.g. Counselor in Training Program, Junior
Bears football, Windy City Sluggers softball, etc.). In 2013, CPD added a basketball program (Windy
City Hoops) targeted toward CHA residents at Altgeld that will continue in 2014.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District to provide
year round park district programs for CHA youth in an amount not-to-exceed $450,000
for the period of January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item 14)
The resolution for Item 14 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department of
Family and Support Services (DFSS), not-to-exceed $1,758,240 to provide supportive services for
CHA families. CHA’s Resident Services Division is charged with supporting youth and adults on the
path to self-sufficiency, which includes providing supportive services to families that assist them in
meeting their goals. In order to accomplish this, CHA and DFSS collaborate each year to provide
services in the areas of early childhood development, out-of-school time, senior and family
programming. In 2014, CHA and DFSS will provide the following initiatives: Out of School Time:
DFSS will continue to offer out-of-school time activities for CHA youth including after school,
summer and school vacation time programming. These quality programs offer youth a structured
environment to participate in academic enrichment, arts and culture, computer science technology,
sports fitness and career exploration activities. Through out of school initiatives, DFSS will
specifically target youth at Altgeld Gardens to support the Housing Opportunities Services Together
(“HOST”) demonstration program. Golden Diner: The Golden Diner Program provides meals that
meet the recommended dietary allowances for older adults to help them stay healthy, and addresses
isolation by providing the venue for socialization and physical activities for seniors to engage in before
and after meals are served. DFSS covers the costs for meals provided through the Golden Diner, while
CHA supports the costs of four (4) Assistant Specialists in Aging (ASIAs) who oversee the nutrition
site operations. Homeless Prevention: DFSS will provide homeless prevention services to CHA
residents facing eviction from a CHA public housing unit. Services offered include, but are not limited
14

 to: crisis counseling, emergency shelter/interim housing placement; and relocation, transportation and
storage. Early Childhood/Family Services: The Early Childhood and Family Services initiative
involves the provision of early childhood and family literacy services. In addition to the enhanced
outreach and support programs, DFSS will continue to provide its parent engagement/education
program. In 2014, DFSS will continue to partner with several additional organizations to provide three
(3) targeted programs focusing on: 1) nutrition and family menu planning; 2) parent ambassadors to
educate families on the importance of early childhood programs; and 3) summer youth programs with
focus on peacemaking and personal growth.
RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 11, 2013
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT WITH THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND
SUPPORT SERVICES”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family and
Support Services to provide support services for CHA families in an amount not-toexceed $1,758,240 for the period of January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 hiring, and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Items 10 through 14 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Sierra thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairman Sierra then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.

15

 There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by
Commissioner King, seconded by Commissioner Harris, the December 17, 2013 meeting of the Board
of Commissioners was adjourned at approximately 10:40 a.m.

s/b

s/b:

Rodrigo Sierra
Vice-Chairman, Chicago Housing Authority

Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

16

 