MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
September 18, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
September 18, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at the Apartamentos Las Americas formerly Racine Apts., 1611
South Racine, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Martin Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Absent:

None

Also present were Adrienne Minley, Chief-of-Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
In the absence of Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff
presented the CEO’s report. Ms. Minley commenced her report by announcing that the CHA
has launched a radio advertising campaign to fill vacancies in available CHA senior apartments
throughout Chicago. The campaign includes radio, streaming Public Service Announcements,
on-air interviews, promos, event marketing elements and open houses on three radio stations.
The three-week campaign started on September 17th. In coordination with the radio promotion,
there will be three open houses starting on Saturday, Sept. 22nd. Herb Kent will broadcast live
from the Lincoln Perry Apartments. The second radio promotion will be broadcast by WNUA
and the third will be broadcast by Inspiration 1390. Ms. Minley concluded her report with an
update on the grand opening of Starbucks at 35th and State Street by Mayor Daley and HUD
Secretary, Alphonso Jackson.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner O’Keefe presented an Omnibus Motion to approve the following resolutions for
Executive Session Item 1 and 2:

1

 Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 5, 2007, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for August 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
August 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter
of Kimberly Jefferies, et al. v CHA, et al, Case No. 03 L 10118;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Kimberly Jefferies, et al. v
CHA, et al, Case No. 03 L 10118.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, September 12, 2007 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. Staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of
August 2007.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A6 discussed voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the submittal of the FY2008 Subsidy and Grants
Information System (SAGIS) calculation to HUD. HUD uses SAGIS to determine a public
housing authority’s eligibility for an operating subsidy. Based on the formula established by
HUD as a part of the Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement, the CHA should request the
operating subsidy in the amount of $191,208,280. Unlike the procedure used in prior years,
HUD has requested each Authority to submit its electronic submission prior to the release of
final pro-rations. This is being done in order to determine the overall need of Public Housing
Authorities. Upon release of the final pro-ration amount, the CHA’s FY2008 Comprehensive
Budget will be adjusted accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-120
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated September
2

 12, 2007 entitled “APPROVAL OF THE FY2008 SUBSIDY AND GRANTS
INFORMATION SYSTEM CALCULATION AND AUTHORIZATION FOR
ITS SUBMISSION TO THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the FY2008 Subsidy and Grants
Information System Calculation and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute and submit the Subsidy and Grants Information System
Calculation and all necessary related documents to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves extension of contract with Ernst & Young for independent
professional auditing services for which the base term expires November 9, 2007. During the
past two years, Ernst & Young has met, and at time exceeded its contract requirements with
CHA and has performed all tasks expected of independent auditors. Ernst & Young has utilized
expertise from its various audit practice to deliver key solutions to critical accounting and
financial issues on behalf of the CHA. Ernst & Young is willing and able to provide independent
professional auditing services to the CHA for the next contract term.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated September 12, 2007, entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE FIRST ONE YEAR OPTION FOR CONTRACT NO. 5160 WITH
ERNST & YOUNG, LLP FOR INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL AUDITING
SERVICES;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the first one-year option to extend Contract No. 5160
(“Contract”) with Ernst & Young, LLP (E & Y) for the period of November 10,
2007 through November 9, 2008 to provide auditing services for the amount of
$618,150.00 as provided in the Contract.

(Item A3)
In April 2007, an RFP for installation, supply, service and maintenance of vending machines
was released. The intent of the solicitation was to provide a fair market commission rate, better
product quality and selection, more reliable machines, timely reporting and accountability as
well as consistent vendor compliance based on the CHA’s Procurement requirements. The RFP
was mailed to ten vendors and advertised in area newspapers. Of the four proposals received,
the evaluating committee recommended Ace Coffee Bar, Inc. as the preferred Respondent since
they best met the requested specifications. Ace Coffee Bar, Inc. will provide installation, supply
and maintenance of vending machines, facilities and services at 45 senior buildings, 4 family
buildings and 10 maintenance locations of the CHA.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-122
The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the memorandum dated September 12, 2007 “Authorization to Enter into a
Contract with Ace Coffee Bar, Inc. to Provide Installation, Supply and
Maintenance of Vending Facilities and Services at 59 Chicago Housing
Authority Locations”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to enter into a contract with Ace Coffee Bar,
Inc. for the installation, supply and maintenance of vending machines, facilities
and services to 59 CHA locations for a base period of two (2) years, with a one
(1) year option, with a base commission rate of Fifteen percent (15%) of gross
3

 revenues up to $325,000 annually, and a secondary commission rate of 22% of
gross revenues in excess of $325,000 annually.
(Item A4)
The CHA must annually renew its insurance coverage for General Liability, Excess Liability,
Public Officials Liability, All Risk Property, Employed Lawyers Errors and Omissions Liability,
Employment Practices Liability, Auto Liability, Crime and Fiduciary Liability. HUD previously
authorized the CHA to have its insurance broker of record competitively solicit bids on the
CHA’s behalf for all forthcoming insurance procurements. Aon directly and indirectly solicited
requests for insurance premium quotes from 19 insurance carriers on June 15, 2007, and
requested that their quotes be submitted by July 15, 2007. Aon received multiple quotes on all
lines of coverage except for the primary layer of All Risk Property insurance and Excess
Liability insurance. After reviewing the insurance premium quotes, Aon and CHA’s Risk
Management Department recommend the insurers listed in the resolution table below to provide
the required insurance coverage for CHA for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30,
2008. The recommended awards are to the incumbent carriers with policy limits and retention
levels remaining the same for all lines of coverage except for All Risk Property, which was
restructured with increased property values reported. Fiduciary Liability is a new coverage added
to this year’s program and the Crime coverage which was procured earlier in 2006 had limits
increased.
RESOLUTION N0. 2007-CHA-123
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September 12
2007, entitled "AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CHA TO AWARD GENERAL
LIABILITY, EXCESS LIABILITY, PUBLIC OFFICIALS LIABILITY, ALL
RISK PROPERTY, EMPLOYED LAWYERS ERRORS AND OMISSIONS
LIABILITY, EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY, AUTO LIABILITY,
CRIME AND FIDUCIARY LIABILITY COVERAGE”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to award the following insurance coverage for the CHA for the period of
October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008 for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $1,519,227.00 through its insurance broker of record, Aon Risk Services,
Inc. of Illinois: (1) General Liability written though Lexington in an amount notto-exceed $35,789.00; (2) Excess Liability coverage written through Lexington in
an amount not-to-exceed $223,004.00; (3) Public Officials Liability written
through Lexington in an amount not-to-exceed $204,092.00; (4) All Risk Property
written through Lexington, Global Excess, and Axis in an amount not-to-exceed
$893,917.00; (5) Employed Lawyers Errors and Omissions Liability written
through Chubb in an amount not-to-exceed $22,094.00; (6) Employment Practice
Liability written through Lexington in an amount not-to-exceed $67,340.00; (7)
Auto Liability written through Hartford in an amount not-to-exceed $50,995.00;
(8) Crime written through Great American in amount not-to-exceed $4,996.00 and
(9) Fiduciary Liability written through Chubb in an amount not-to-exceed
$17,000.00.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves contract amendment with Clarity Partners for additional
services required to support the Enterprise Document Management System. A contract
amendment is necessary to expand document management services from 10 to 24 CHA
departments; increase document types not previously identified but required for the
comprehensive EDMS deployment; and design and development of fixes and corrections to
Quillix and MuWave systems and software. These expanded project scope elements are
necessary to provide portions of the project determined to have functional gaps and to repair
certain development, configuration and implementation deficiencies discovered with the
deployment of the Quilix and MuWave systems that support FileNet and EDMS, which were
originally to be provided by a separate vendor.

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, titled, “Ratification of an Amendment to the Master Service Agreement
with Clarity Partners, LLC.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to ratify a contract amendment to the Pre-Qualified Consulting Master
Contract No. 5179 and its associated Work Plan(s) and Contract Document,
which will effect the provision of additional services required to support the
Enterprise Document Management System (EDMS) in an amount not to exceed
$213,680.00.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves Amendment No. 5 of the MTW Agreement. 24 CFR
983.56 of the Housing Authorities Act requires that not more than 25 percent of the dwelling
units in any building may be assisted under a housing assistance payment contract for projectbased assistance. The purpose of Amendment No. 5 is to waive these provisions and authorize
the CHA to convert 16 of the 24 units to provide project-based voucher assistance to the
Hispanic Housing Development Corporation (HHDC) for the North Avenue Apartment
Development located at 2646-54 W. North Avenue. The Board initially approved Amendment
No. 5 on February 20, 2007. Thereafter, HUD determined that Amendment No. 5 needed to be
narrowed in scope prior to its consideration and approval. The CHA revised Amendment No. 5
and held a public comment period August from 9, 2007 through September 7, 2007 at the
Charles Hayes Family Investment Center. Consideration was given to any forthcoming
comments prior to finalization of the documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, requesting approval of Amendment No. 5 to the “Memorandum of
Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work Agreement,” dated
February 6, 2000 between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the Chicago Housing Authority.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 5 to
the “Memorandum of Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work
Agreement” and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to execute the amendment
on behalf of the CHA.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ivers, then presented the Operations and Facilities monthly report. Per
Commissioner Ivers, due to a lack of quorum the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting
was not held as scheduled on Wednesday, September 12, 2007. Staff presented Commissioners

5

 with an overview of the following items; however, for the record no vote was taken at the
Committee Meeting.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B11.
(Item B1)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA requires the services of professional
architectural and/or engineering firms to provide all necessary design and engineering services
related to construction, rehabilitation, and ADA/504 activities. These design and construction
management services will be performed at various Senior and Family properties, covering
approximately 739 units and common areas of approximately 61 buildings designated as
ADA/504 compliant, but only on an as-needed basis for a portion of these units and common
areas. The CHA advertised a Request for Proposal in July 2007 in area newspapers and on the
CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited one hundred thirty-four firms, including thirtyfive MBE/WBE/DBE firms, and thirteen assist agencies. Of the three proposals received, the
Evaluation Committee determined that all three Respondents were within the competitive range.
Upon further consideration of each Respondent following Oral presentation, the Evaluation
Committee recommended that Bauhs Dring Seglin Main be awarded the contract. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item B1 approves award of contract to Bauhs Dring Seglin and Main. The
PDC services to be furnished under this contract will be ordered by issuance of Task Orders.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 12, 2007
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH BAUHS
DRING SEGLIN MAIN FOR PRIME DESIGN CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR ADA/504 AT VARIOUS SENIOR AND FAMILY PROPERTIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Bauhs Dring Seglin Main in the not-to-exceed
amount of $1,500,000.00 for Prime Design Consultant Services (“PDC”) for
ADA/504. These design and construction management services will be performed
at various Senior and Family properties on an as-needed basis.
The PDC services to be furnished under this contract will be ordered by issuance
of Task Orders, for which the Awardee will submit a proposal to perform the
Task Order work on a Lump Sum Basis. The Chicago Housing Authority reserves
the right to negotiate the Lump Sum prior to its acceptance of the proposal and
issuance of a Task Order.
The contract shall take effect on the date designated in the Notice to Proceed, and
shall continue until the end date indicated in the contract, for a base contract
period of not more than thirty-six (36) months in duration, with two (2) one-year
options, but not to exceed five (5) years in length.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA intends to perform renovation work at the
Frances Cabrini Homes Phase 1. The Scope of Work for this proposed contract includes but is
not limited to the renovation of infrastructure and common areas, including select demolition,
improvements to mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems, and site and landscaping
improvements. After releasing two solicitations in the form of Invitations for Bids, neither of
which resulted in awards, it was decided that the work contemplated in this proposed contract
would be bid separately through the Procurement by Non-Competitive Proposal Process in order
to minimize any further delay. Participating vendors were chosen from those who had expressed
interest in the earlier solicitations, and already had secured copies of the technical specifications
and drawings for the site. This Non-Competitive Procurement Proposal was not advertised to the
general public. The solicitation was released to seven selected vendors on June 12, 2007. Of the
6

 four Non-Competitive proposals received and opened, the evaluation committee recommended
H.L.F. Construction Company, Inc. since they submitted the lowest responsive and responsible
proposal. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves award of contract to H.L.F.
Construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH H.L.F.
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, INC. FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT FRANCES CABRINI HOMES (IL2-002) – PHASE 1”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with H.L.F. Construction Company, Inc. in the
amount of $3,916,000.00 for infrastructure work including demolition and site
work at Frances Cabrini Homes (IL2-002) – Phase 1. Frances Cabrini Homes is a
Family housing development. H.L.F. Construction Company will complete site
work including , but not limited to, demolition work, retention ponds, sewer work
and electrical work for the entire site by no later than February 28, 2008. This
award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in July 2007 for general contractors to perform
Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) task orders at various CHA Development
locations. The IDIQ format offers the CHA the opportunity to maintain a group of construction
firms under contract at pre-established labor rates. Qualified contractors, whose services were
competitively procured under the IDIQ contract program, will have the opportunity to bid on
work as it becomes available via task orders. The IDIQ method of contracting assures the CHA
has a potential hedge against the escalation of construction costs, and that it has the ability to
quickly obtain competitive pricing from pre-qualified contractors on task order work. The IFB
was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA’s website. The CHA also e-mailed and
faxed flyers on July 6, 2007 to fifty firms, including thirty-six M/W/DBE firms. Of the twentytwo firms that submitted bids, ten firms were recommended for award in order to have them in
place to meet the CHA’s immediate needs. Of the remaining twelve firms, one firm was not
recommended for award because of its high labor rates, and four firms were deemed nonresponsible for the purposes of this procurement either because of their poor past performance or
because of the CHA’s concerns about their capacity to perform the work. Staff is still in the
process of performing its analysis to determine the responsibility of the remaining seven firms
and reserves the right to seek authorization to include any of those firms in the event that they are
deemed responsible after completing the review. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3
approves award of contract to the ten firms as listed in the below resolution.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE TEN (10) INDEFINITE
DELIVERY, INDEFINITE QUANTITY (IDIQ) TASK ORDER CONTRACTS
TO PERFORM CONSTRUCTION SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA
DEVELOPMENT LOCATIONS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
her designee to award ten (10) Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity task order
contracts for general contracting work at various CHA Senior, Family and
Scattered-Site Developments for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed
$60,000,000.00, each contract having a guaranteed minimum of $100,000.00 and
an initial not-to-exceed amount of up to $6,000,000.00 for the initial two (2) year
base term, and with a one (1) year extension option. The ten (10) contractors to be
awarded contracts are as follows:

7

 1
2
3
4
5

Recommended Firms
Blinderman Construction Co., Inc.
Broadway Consolidated Companies, Inc.
C&P Maintenance Co., Inc.
Coleman Development Corporation
Done Rite Construction Services, Inc.

6
7
8
9
10

Recommended Firms
Koal Heating
Maxwell Services
O.A.K.K. Construction Co., Inc.
Oakley Construction Company, Inc.
Old Veteran Construction, Inc.

The Board further authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to
evaluate requests from the Capital Construction Division to adjust the not-toexceed values of well performing vendors. These awards are subject to the
individual contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3
resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.
(Item B4)
In May 2007, the CHA entered into a contract with Constellation New Energy to provide its
electricity requirements for a twenty four month term at the fixed rate of $0.08270 per
Kilowatt/Hour (kWh). This blended rate includes the costs for: transmission, ancillary fees,
capacity costs, line loss costs, and distribution costs. Although market costs for energy supplies
and services have risen significantly in recent years, the CHA’s total electricity consumption has
decreased over the past several years due to the closing of many of the high-rise buildings.
Based upon the competitive pricing benefits and management efficiencies of a single wholesale
contract, the CHA transferred all 69 electricity accounts from ComEd to Constellation New
Energy. Those accounts are comprised of 44 small accounts, 16 medium accounts, 6 large
accounts, and 3 very large accounts, which are subject to the Master Electricity Supply
Agreement. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 ratifies the Master Electricity Supply
Agreement and payments to Constellation New Energy for CHA’s Electricity requirements.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-129
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 12, 2007, entitled “Ratification of the Master
Electricity Supply Agreement with Constellation New Energy for CHA’s
Electricity Requirements and Ratification of Payment(s) to Constellation New
Energy”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee: (i) to ratify the entry into and execution of a Master Electricity Supply
Agreement with Constellation New Energy, which will run for a term of twenty
four (24) months in an amount not to exceed $8,825,882.00; and (ii) to ratify the
prior payments made to Constellation New Energy under the contract in the
amount of $775,176.01.

(Item B5)
The Asset Management Department surveyed the scavenger services being provided across the
developments and found that service and cost varied from development to development, even
within the same management company’s portfolio. Therefore, with expectations of standardizing
the performance and the cost of services being provided to the portfolio, the Asset Management
Department initiated a process to facilitate a competitive solicitation under which each property
management company for the Authority would contract with one waste removal vendor for all of
the sites within its portfolio. Eastlake advertised an RFP for scavenger services in area
newspapers and of the five vendors who submitted proposals two were incomplete and deemed
non-responsive. Of the three remaining proposals, Eastlake’s evaluation committee ranked
Premier Waste and Recycling the highest. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves East
Lake Management Group to enter into a contract with Premier Waste and Recycling for
scavenger services at various CHA sites.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-130
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated September 12, 2007 entitled “Authorization for East Lake
Management Group, Inc. to Enter into a Contract with Premier Waste and
Recycling for Scavenger Services at Various CHA Sites”.

8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes East Lake Management Group, Inc.,
property management company for the CHA, to enter into a contract with Premier
Waste and Recycling for Scavenger Services in the firm, fixed amount of
$945,120.00 for a two year base contract term with a one-year option.

The resolutions for Items B6 and B7 approve extension of contracts of the private property
management agreements, with the respective property manager, to manage various CHA
residential properties. The CHA first introduced private management of its public housing in the
1980s with its scattered sites programs as a condition of court receivership. Private Management
of public housing was expanded thereafter to a limited number of troubled high-rise family
properties in the late 1980’s. By 2000, all CHA residential properties had been turned over to
private managers. The units owned by CHA in mixed income properties are also privately
managed. Some of the primary responsibilities of the property management companies are: rent
collection, emergency and non-emergency work orders, resident eligibility re-examinations, unit
and building systems inspections, property budget/expenditure reporting and assessments, lease
enforcement, referral of residents to social services and risk management. The overall
performance of the property managers in the following areas were considered satisfactory and
have consistently shown marked improvement: lease management, financial accountability, risk
management and compliance.
(Item B6)
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-131
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, titled, “Authorization to Extend of The Private Property Management
Agreement with the Housing Resource Center to Manage Various CHA
Residential Properties”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the chief executive officer or her designee
to extend the private property management agreement for one year with the
Housing Resource Center to manage various CHA residential properties.

(Item B7)
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, titled, “Authorization to Extend the Private Property Management
Agreements with Hispanic Housing Development Corporation to Manage Various
CHA Residential Properties”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to extend of the private property management agreements for one year
with Hispanic Housing Development Corporation to manage various CHA
residential properties.

(Item B8)
The resolution for Item B8 approves award of contract to Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC
for environmental remediation activities at Madden/Wells Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment site.
The development team of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC was selected as a result of a
July 21, 2001 Request for Proposals issued by the CHA and the court-appointed Gautreaux
Receiver, Daniel E. Levin and The Habitat Company, LLC. In June 2003, the Board approved
entering into a Development Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC. Pursuant to
the Development Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site remediation for preexisting conditions on the entire rental development site subject to certain rights to terminate for
infeasibility. As part of the construction preparation, a number of environmental investigation
studies were completed for the CHA-owned land included in the Phase II site. These studies have
identified certain environmental contaminants on the site that can be effectively remediated with

9

 an engineered barrier approach. This approach is the preferred method because it is the least
costly and is also acceptable to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
Commissioner Young abstained from voting on Item B8.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-133
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, September 12,
2007, entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, LLC For Environmental Remediation Activities At The
Madden/Wells Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract (“Remediation Agreement”) with Oakwood
Boulevard Associates, LLC for a total contract amount not to exceed
$2,807,076(which represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the
Madden/Wells Phase 2 Redevelopment Site) to perform remediation activities in
support of the Madden/Wells Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site (also known
as Oakwood Shores). The term of the contract shall be the earlier of: final receipt
of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the IEPA with regards to the
Madden/Wells Phase 2A Rental Redevelopment Site, or two years, subject to a
one year extension at CHA’s election

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal and evidentiaries to
HUD for Madden/Wells Redevelopment Phase 2A. The Phase 2 Rental development will be
built in an area bounded by 37th Street to the north, Pershing Road to the south, Cottage Grove to
the east and Rhodes Avenue to the west. The rental units will be interspersed with for sale units
to be produced by a different development team under a separate development agreement. Phase
2 Rental of the Madden/Wells/Oakwood Shores redevelopment plan will produce a total of
approximately 378 new units of mixed-income rental housing, one property management office,
and one community room in 30 buildings interspersed throughout the site. The proposed 378
Phase 2 rental units include 149 public housing units, 121 affordable units and 108 market rate
units. The rental units will be developed in two sub-phases: Phase 2A will provide
approximately 199 total units and Phase 2B will provide approximately 179 total units. The
Phase 2A Rental housing development will provide a mix of traditional Chicago building types,
including three-story 6 flats, townhomes, and one mid-rise building. The rental units range in
size from 1-bedroom to 4 bedroom units and have been designed in accordance with all
applicable city, state, and federal building, occupancy, and fair housing/accessibility codes and
guidelines. The proposed green initiatives include a planted “green” roof over 25% of the total
roof area. Roof-mounted solar collectors will provide hot water to the mid-rise building.
Building roofs will be insulated, windows will be thermally improved aluminum with low-E
coated insulating glass and high efficiency furnaces will be used in all low-rise buildings and
downspouts will not connect to the storm system. The 99-year ground lease with CHA for the
Phase 2A rental development sites will be executed by The Community Builders, Inc. The total
estimated development cost of Oakwood Shores Phase 2A is approximately $57,644,912 and is
expected to be funded by a variety of financing sources
Commissioner Young abstained from voting on Item B9
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-134
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 18,
2007, requesting authorization to 1) Submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and
Evidentiaries to the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development for
Madden/Wells Redevelopment Phase 2A; 2) Submit a Disposition Modification
for Madden/Wells Redevelopment Phase 2A; 3) Execute a Ground Lease for
CHA Land to The Community Builders, Inc. for Madden/Wells Redevelopment
Phase 2A; 4) Commit up to $28,000,000 of CHA funds to the Phase 2
Madden/Wells Redevelopment and 5) Execute other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
10

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and Evidentiaries to the U.S
Department of Housing and Urban Development for Madden/Wells
Redevelopment Phase 2A; 2) Submit a Disposition Modification for
Madden/Wells Redevelopment Phase 2A; 3) Execute a Ground Lease for CHA
Land to The Community Builders, Inc. for Madden/Wells Redevelopment Phase
2A; 4) Amend Board Resolution No. 2007-CHA-55 to increase the Hope VI and
MROP Funding Amount from $12,000,000 to $14,000,000 for Madden Wells
Phase 2A; 5)Commit up to a Total of $28,000,000 of CHA funds to the Phase 2
Madden/Wells Redevelopment and 6) Execute other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.

THAT,

All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same
hereby are, in all respects ratified, approved and confirmed.

(Item B10)
The resolution for Item B10 amends contract with Consoer Townsend Envirodyne (CTE)
Engineers for the provision of additional Prime Design Consultant Services at Britton Budd
Apartments. The amendment covers the following changes: design revisions for certification of
Federal Historic Preservation Tax Credits; Property Unit Survey and Design Revisions for
damage incurred during project delay; and additional services to re-bid the construction work.
As part of its Basic Services, CTE provided services related to the procurement and award of a
construction contract. CTE conducted such work for Britton Budd, until such time that the CHA
suspended the project, through no fault of CTE, just prior to the final execution of the
construction agreement. The revisions to the drawings and specifications for the additional
scope of work outlined and the project delay required CHA’s reassessment, resulting in the need
to re-bid the project. Although CTE previously provided services to the CHA’s satisfaction,
they are currently being asked to provide the services again, based on the new scope of work.
Such services typically include responding to inquiries and requests for information, attending
pre-proposal conferences, conducting field meetings, and preparing all updates, reviews, and replots, and printing and delivery of drawings and specifications. CTE also performed shop
drawing reviews prior to the suspension of the project, and the proposed amendment provides
for the continuation of this work by CTE following the re-bid process.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-135
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12th,
2007, entitled Authorization to Amend Contract No. 5066 With Consoer
Townsend Envirodyne Engineers, Inc. for the Provision of Additional Prime
Design Consultant Services at Britton Budd Apartments (Il2-048);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend Contract No. 5066 with Consoer Townsend Envirodyne
Engineers, Inc., (CTE) for the expenditure of $207,756 for additional Prime
Design Consultant (PDC) services at Britton Budd Apartments (IL2-048) beyond
those included in the original Scope of Work. The new total contract amount of
Contract No. 5066 will be $1,348,678. The length of the contract will coincide
with the completion of the construction closeout/post-construction warranty
period under the construction contract. This award is subject to the CTE’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B11)
The resolution for Item B11 approves submission of an application to HUD for a $20 million
FY2007 HOPE VI Revitalization grant to fund the second phase of the Park Boulevard mixedincome development, which replaces the former Stateway Gardens public housing development.
The award of the HOPE VI grant would allow development funds currently allocated to the
Stateway revitalization to be re-budgeted to other currently planned but unfunded mixed-income
revitalization projects. The HUD NOFA for Discretionary Programs was published July 31,
2007 and made available approximately $94.5 million in assistance through the FY2007
11

 Revitalization Grant Program. The application deadline for this competitive award is November
7, 2007. The Stateway/Park Boulevard mixed income redevelopment plan, development team,
community involvement, construction progress, readiness and no previous HOPE VI fund
awards makes it a strong application for this award. Stateway/ Park Boulevard’s Phase II
planning is already in progress and proposes to produce over 400 rental and for sale units both on
and off-site. Phase I on-site development is currently under construction and will deliver 311
diverse mixed income housing units by the end of 2008. To date, the first 45 units have been
completed and the first ten (10) former Stateway residents have returned home to the new Park
Boulevard community
Commissioner O’Keefe Recused from voting on Item B11 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-136
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 12,
2007, requesting authorization for the submission of a 2007 Hope VI
Revitalization Grant application to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the Stateway Gardens/ Park Boulevard Phase II redevelopment
and to execute such other documents and take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to submit a 2007 Hope VI Revitalization Grant application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Stateway Gardens/ Park
Boulevard Phase II redevelopment and to execute such other documents and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B11 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes: Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe (Recused from voting on Item B11 only)
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young (Abstained from voting on Items B8 & B9)
Nays: None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, September 12, 2007 at approximately 2:25 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices.
Linda Kaiser, Managing Director of Tenant Services, and representatives from
Partnership for New Community presented the Committee with a briefing on Opportunity
Chicago.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves entering into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract with
Senior Lifestyles, Inc. to provide 17 project-Based Vouchers at the Senior Suites of AuburnGresham. Auburn-Gresham is located on 79th Street between Carpenter and Aberdeen in the
Auburn-Gresham community. The building is a 6-story structure consisting of 85 senior rental
apartments and a City of Chicago Department on Aging (CDoA) satellite center. Of the 85 units,
25 are studio apartments and 60 are one-bedroom. Seventeen of the units will receive Project12

 based Voucher assistance and priority will be given to seniors on the CHA/CHAC waiting list.
The only cost to CHA toward this development will be the project-based rental subsidy. Senior
Suites provides high quality, affordable housing with specially designed amenities and a variety
of personal services appealing to the needs and desires of senior citizens.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-137
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated September 12,
2007, requesting authorization to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment
Contract to provide 17 Project-Based Vouchers to Senior Suites of AuburnGresham and authorization to execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BUT THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract to provide 17
Project-Based Vouchers to Senior Suites of Auburn-Gresham, a low-income
senior housing development and to execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves award of contract to Illinois Action for Children (IAFC) to
establish a program to provide enhanced child care resource and referral services to CHA
families. Pursuant to the Building Code Violation Settlement Agreement between the CHA and
the City of Chicago, this contract is being initiated to satisfy the agreement to fund
administrative support and a childcare program for CHA residents. As Cook County’s only child
care resource and referral agency, IAFC is the only agency funded by the State of Illinois to
administer the Child Care Assistance Program for Cook County. As such, IAFC will provide a
program of support for parents of young children who are CHA residents or relocatees. IAFC
will conduct home visits twice monthly to participants, conduct group parenting meetings, and
provide annual developmental, health, vision and hearing screenings for children. Additionally,
IAFC will provide training to Service Connector and Relocation Provider staff on Child Care
Subsidy, Accessing Child Care, and Head Start/Childcare enrollment eligibility and procedures.
IAFC’s target population includes all current CHA families and those who temporarily relocated
utilizing Housing Choice Vouchers.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-138
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 12, 2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
NEGOTIATE AND ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH ILLINOIS ACTION
FOR CHILDREN TO PROVIDE ENHANCED CHILD CARE RESOURCE
AND REFERRAL SERVICES FOR CHA FAMILIES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a contract with Illinois Action for Children (“IAFC”) in
accordance with 24 CFR 85.36(d)(4)(i)(A) for a one-year base term of September
1, 2007 through August 31, 2008 in an amount not-to-exceed $300,000.00, with
two (2), one-year option periods to establish a program to provide enhanced child
care resource and referral services to CHA families.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner O’Keefe
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None
13

 There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

14

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 