Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of May 17, 2005
Douglas Park Fieldhouse, 1401 S. Sacramento Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

1.

Dewayne Newson

Will there be a percentage of homes made available for
residents that qualify to have the opportunity to be a
home owner on property that is being transformed?

2.

Brenda Bolden

3.

Cheryl Johnson

Encouraged the CHA to continue installation of VOS
doors and windows. Requesting staff to visit City/State to
explain split lease process, transfer fees and expenses
related to light and gas.
Requesting CHA management to reconsider washer and
dryer issues at Altgeld.

4.

Unique Gibson

5.

Deverra Beverly

6.

Kevin Cannon

7.

Shahshak Levi

8.

Invited Commissioners to attend Altgeld’s Bid, Bowling &
Bones 4 da Children” fundraising event scheduled for
th
Saturday, May 28 at Dolton Bowl, 1401
E. Sibley Blvd.
Acknowledged Heartland Alliance and Westside 2000 for
providing jobs to CHA residents.

Status
Oakwood Shores will have 100 public housing homes available for those
residents that qualify. In addition, Housing Choice Voucher and Public Housing
Residents who participate in the Family Self Sufficiency program though CHAC
have the opportunity to become homeowners though the “Choice to Own” Home
Ownership program.
nd
These concerns were addressed on June 2 @ 4:30 p.m. at a Q&A session with
representatives from the CHA and residents from Ogden Courts.

Please note that, as previously mentioned, the CHA is unable to spend the
amount needed to install laundry hookups for every unit at Altgeld Gardens.
With regards to the statement about abandoned appliances, the CHA suggests
that residents facing this issue should contact any of the secondhand appliance
stores who are willing to purchase and pick up these items.
Comments Noted

Comments Noted

Encouraged CHA residents to make their own decisions
concerning Cabrini ongoing redevelopment and not be
afraid of the positive changes that can result from the
Plan For Transformation.
Would like further clarification on Taylor’s Tenant
Selection Plan issues.

Comments Noted

Francine Washington
Stateway LAC

Follow up issues will be presented to Management at a
later date.

Comments Noted

9.

Robert Davidson

Is 2717 N. Levitt scheduled for closure in May 2005?

The Director of Relocation has sent a letter to this resident addressing his
concerns.

10.

Delilah Gilmore

Would like information on relocating to scattered site
housing.

CHA’s Relocation Department is currently working with Ms. Gilmore and her
family to relocate.

Resident is encouraged to continue his communiqué with Elizabeth Silas, CHA
Attorney.

 