 at
32:} I




December 18, 2012 GENERAL ITEM NO. I

., .L A 7

RECOMMENDATION TO ADOPT INSPECTOR GENERAL GUIDELINES
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution to adopt the
Inspector General Guidelines.

The Deputy Chief Legal Officer and the Of?ce of the General Counsel have completed all
necessary due diligence to support the submission of these guidelines and recommend the
approval of this item accordingly.

CORPORATE GOAL
To streamline and align guidelines" with the City of Chicago.

EXPLANATION
The proposed Inspector General Guidelines are consistent with those being adopted by the City
of Chicago and its other sister agencies. The Guidelines address the following:
the appointment of an Inspector General for a four year term by a majority of the Board
of Commissioners;
the provision of staff and resources by the Audit Committee;
the reporting of the Inspector General to the Audit Committee; and
the granting of certain powers and duties to the Inspector General, including:
reviewing programs, policies, procedures and functions to identify and eliminate
inefficiencies, waste and misconduct;
0 receiving, registering and investigating complaints and information from any
source, and cooperating with the Authority?s Ethics Of?cer;
0 requesting and receiving information related to investigations;
0 investigating and reviewing the conduct and performance of the Authority?s
of?cers, employees, Board members, agents and contractors;
issuing subpoenas in concurrence with the General Counsel or Chief Executive
Officer;
0 reporting results of investigations to the Audit Committee;
maintaining operational independence from the Board; and
requesting public hearings in furtherance of an investigation.

0

The Deputy Chief Legal Of?cer of the Office of the General Counsel concurs with the
recommendation to adopt the Inspector General Guidelines.

The CEO/President recommends the adoption of the Inspector General Guidelines.

mended language

I?d'l? 5-.- .- - 1? -. 
v35; ?311: auntie-frugal ?aver rim! rt: 

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-112

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners hereby ?nds and determines that it is necessary and
in the best interests of the Authority to adopt the Inspector General Guidelines as
set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

Section 1. Incomration of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are hereby found to be true
and correct and are incorporated in their entirety as if fully set forth in this
Section 1.

Section 2. Approval and Adoption of Inspector General Guidelines. The Inspector General
Guidelines as set forth in Exhibit A are hereby approved and adopted.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect after its passage
as provided by law.

Mull/l:
DEC 18 2012

.r .. 
I


    
  

   
   

5. Van Bursa . Chicago, ?6'55?512?07 - (312) 7637-3500 - m. rhea-hang

