MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 16, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
October 16, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at Wentworth Gardens Fieldhouse, 3770 S. Wentworth, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief-ofStaff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Per Ms.
Gilliam the CHA recently implemented a three-week radio advertising campaign to promote and
fill vacancies in several south side senior developments. The radio campaign ran on WNUA, V103 and Inspiration 1390, the gospel AM station. The radio campaign generated approximately
50 to 90 phone calls a day, and good turnout at the open houses. It will be a few weeks before
the CHA can gauge how many people will move in as a result of the campaign, but at least 120
new applications have already been received for hard-to-lease, difficult properties. Ms. Gilliam
then announced that Hilliard Towers Apartments, one of the most architecturally significant
properties in the CHA’s portfolio, was awarded the prestigious National Trust/HUD Secretary’s
Award for Excellence in Historic Preservation. The $98 million project, unveiled last year, was
formally recognized at the National Preservation Conference in St. Paul, MN, on Oct. 4th. The
honor was covered by the Chicago Tribune. Ms. Gilliam concluded her report by summarizing
recent stories on the press with regards to the closing of Ickes and Wells development.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairman Nesbitt thereupon
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.

1

 Commissioner Young then presented an omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 and 2.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-139
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 5, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for September 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
September 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-140
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter
of Shanta Nicholson, et al. v CHA, et al, Case No. 03 L 3369.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of Shanta Nicholson, et al. v CHA,
et al, Case No. 03 L 3369.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 at approximately 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices. Ella Renfro from the CHA Relocation Department and representatives from Stateway
Community Partners presented the Committee with an update on Community and Social Services
at Dearborn.
Commissioner Young then introduced a Motion for the adoption of Resolution for Item A1
discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves a contract extension with The Neighborhood Technology
Resource Center (NTRC). NTRC provides services to CHA residents at the Family Investment
Center and serves to develop, market, and conduct programs and curricula that focus on
preparing residents for employment in the information technology field. For the last three years,
NTRC has been assessing the technology skills of public housing residents, training residents in
anticipation of job placement in information technology related employment and assisting
residents in job placement efforts. NTRC has also been upgrading and maintaining the CHA’s
The Right Moves Net web portal. NTRC has satisfactorily performed all tasks expected at the

2

 FIC. The total cost for the NTRC’s six-month renewal amount is not to exceed $290,004.78.
During the six-month extension period, CHA will evaluate the effectiveness of the NTRC model
for technology training and job placement as part of a board-approved comprehensive evaluation
of contracted services to residents. The CHA will utilize the NTRC evaluation findings to
develop and issue a new RFP for resident technology training going forward.
RESOLUTION NO._2007-CHA-141
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated October 10, 2007 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE OPTION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0691 WITH
NEIGHBORHOOD TECHNOLOGY RESOURCE CENTER (NTRC) FOR
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TRAINING AND JOB PREPAREDNESS
SERVICES at the FAMILY INVESTMENT CENTER (FIC)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the second extension option and execute an amendment
extending Contract No 0691 with NTRC for the period of six months,
commencing November 1, 2007, through April 30, 2008, for an amount not-toexceed $290,004.78. NTRC will develop, market, and conduct programs and
curricula that focus on preparing residents for employment in the information
technology field at the Family Investment Center (FIC).

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A1 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ivers, then presented the monthly report for the Operations and Facilities
Committee. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, October 10, 2007 at 1:30 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in August 2007 for the renovation of the twelve unit
building located at 4517 – 4519 South Wabash, Washington Park Scattered Sites (IL2-054). Of
the five bids received the apparent low bidder was determined to be non-responsible for the
purposes of this procurement. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves award of
contract to the second lowest bidder, O.A.K.K. Construction Company, Inc. O.A.K.K.’s original
Lump Sum Base Bid Total was $1,850,000.00. However, this amount has been reduced by
$12,000.00, the amount bid by O.A.K.K. for the cost of supplying appliances for this renovation.
A separate source for these appliances has been located at a cost more advantageous to the CHA.
Therefore, the CHA will exercise this deductive alternate, adjusting the Lump Sum Base Bid
Total to $1,838,000.00. This adjustment to the Lump Sum Base Bid Total did not impact the
determination that the original apparent low bidder was non-responsible.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-142
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
O.A.K.K. CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT WASHINGTON PARK SCATTERED SITES (IL2-054) –
TWELVE (12) UNITS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with O.A.K.K. Construction Co., Inc. in the
amount of $1,838,000.00 for the renovation of a twelve (12) unit building located
at 4517 – 4519 South Wabash, Washington Park Scattered Sites (IL2-054), a
Family Housing development, for completion by no later than August 31, 2008.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids to perform renovation work
at the Senior Housing development at Elizabeth Woods Apartments (IL2-071), formerly known
as Larrabee Apartments. This renovation work will be performed within the building located at
1845 North Larrabee Street. The Scope of Work for this solicitation includes, but is not limited
to, the renovation of all tenant and common areas, including mechanical, electrical and plumbing
systems, and site/landscaping improvements. Work shall result in eighty-three units being
extensively renovated, along with the exterior building and landscaping improvements. Based on
the Invitation for Bid advertised by CHA in May 2007, three bids were received and opened.
After a thorough review of all bid submittals, pre-award surveys were conducted. As a result of
these pre-award surveys, it was determined that the deductive alternate for the cost of the
appliances needed at Elizabeth Woods Apartments will be exercised as a new contract. After
adjusting the bids submitted for the cost of the appliances, the second apparent low bidder,
Blinderman, was determined to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at
$7,035,750.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves award of contract to
Blinderman Construction Co. for the renovation at Elizabeth Woods Apartment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-143
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
BLINDERMAN CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. FOR THE SENIOR HOUSING
RENOVATION AT ELIZABETH WOODS APARTMENTS (IL2-071)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Blinderman Construction Co., Inc. in the
amount of $7,035,750.00 for the renovation of an eighty-three (83) unit building
located at 1845 North Larrabee Street, Elizabeth Woods Apartments (IL2-071), a
Senior Housing development, for completion by no later than October 31, 2008.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
In August 2007, the CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in area newspapers and on CHA’s
website soliciting bids for demolition work at ten developments, eight scattered sites and four
non-dwelling locations. Of the five bids received and opened, Delta Demolition Inc. was
determined to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for Class B, C and D Building
Types, and Heneghan Wrecking and Excavation Company, Inc. was determined to be the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder for Class A Building Types. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B3 approves award of contract to Delta Demolition and Heneghan Wrecking and
Excavation Company for Authority-wide demolition services at various CHA developments.

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-144
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH
DELTA DEMOLITION INC. AND HENEGHAN WRECKING AND
EXCAVATION COMPANY, INC. FOR AUTHORITY-WIDE DEMOLITION
SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA DEVELOPMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Delta Demolition Inc. in an amount not-toexceed $16,500,000.00 and a contract with Heneghan Wrecking and Excavation
Company, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed $9,100,000.00 for authority-wide
demolition services at various Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”)
developments for a two (2) year base term, and two (2) one-year options. This
award is subject to the Contractors’ compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B4)
The CHA issued an Invitation for Bid in area newspapers, CHA’s website, and via direct
notifications to vendors identified on the bidders list for the removal and disposal of existing
HVAC equipment and the supply and installation of new HVAC equipment at the Charles A.
Hayes Family Investment Center. Eleven vendors picked up the solicitation. A site visit and prebid conference was held and representatives from eight firms attended. At the bid opening, only
one bid was received. Due to the inadequate competition, this procurement necessitated a review
by the Non-Compete Committee. All Chicago, Inc. (the only vendor who submitted a bid) has
provided service to the CHA in the past. All Chicago has worked with the Operations
Department, Capital Construction, and various Private Property Managers in providing heating,
cooling, and ventilating services. This vendor’s past performance has been excellent, and they
have historically completed the scheduled work on time and within the budget. Due to the
vulnerability of the buildings existing HVAC systems the resolution for Item B4 approves award
of contract to All Chicago, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-145
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007 entitled "Authorization to Enter Into a Contract With All Chicago,
Incorporated for the Supply and Installation of Replacement HVAC Equipment at
the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center";
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to: enter into a Contract with All Chicago, Incorporated for the
replacement of HVAC systems and equipment at the Charles A. Hayes Family
Investment Center, including: (1) the supply and installation of energy efficient
rooftop heating and air-conditioning units, variable air volume boxes, direct
digital controls, ductwork, and related equipment; (2) removal and proper disposal
of the existing HVAC equipment and systems being retired from service; and (3)
servicing the existing Liebert units that will remain in service.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 authorizes the CHA to maintain a pool of pre-qualified housing
developers, development teams and multi-unit building owners for the specific intention of
delivering on-site or off-site replacement housing units to CHA for eligible public housing
families. The CHA issued Request for Qualifications (RFQ) in March 2007 to competitively
solicit qualified firms and/or individuals to provide either on-site or off-site replacement housing
units for public housing eligible families. The RFQ was advertised in area newspapers and the
CHA also directly solicited seventy-four firms. Of the six responses received, all the firms were
considered responsive and responsible. The pool consists of successful respondents who will
serve under the “Housing for Chicagoans Everywhere Program” as pre-qualified
Developers/Owners eligible to propose and, subject to subsequent board approval, close

5

 development transactions or to dedicate specific numbers of public housing units under a mixedfinance arrangement with CHA and The Habitat Company, LLC, for a two year period
RESOLUTION NO. 2007–CHA–146
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007, entitled, “Authorization to Maintain a Pool of Prequalified Housing
Developers, Development teams and Multi-unit Building Owners for the Specific
Intention of Delivering Replacement Housing to the Chicago Housing Authority
for Public Housing Eligible Families.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the CHA to maintain a pool of prequalified housing developers, development teams and multi-unit building owners
(named below ) for the specific intention of delivering replacement housing units
to the CHA for eligible families under a mixed-finance arrangement with
CHA/Habitat for a two year period (from the date of the “Notice of
Qualification”). Any acquisition, purchase or long-term leasing of units for
public housing purposes will be subject to further approval from the CHA Board
of Commissioners, HUD, and if required, any other necessary approvals.

Firms:
The Community Builders
Michaels Development Company
Signature Development & Consulting

Brinshore Development, LLC
Granite Companies, LLC
DSR – Mark Properties

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B5 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, October 10, 2007 at 2:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
offices. Staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of
September 2007 and an update on Windows of Opportunity.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the following
Resolutions.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the revised 2007 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2007
budgeted expenditures have been revised from $938,947,086 to $939,789,339, resulting in an
$842,253 increase. The major changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund: total
revenues and associated expenditures increased by $2,547,881 for a fund total of $856,262,037,
due to an increase in the HUD appropriation for the Housing Choice Voucher Program; Section
8 Non-MTW Fund: Budget remained unchanged at $15,435,815; Hope VI Fund: total revenues
and associated expenditures decreased by $5,583,216 for a fund total of $45,742,028. The
decrease is due to a reduction in cash flow projections for Roosevelt Square Phase II, Hansberry

6

 Square, and Cabrini Parkside: City/State Fund: Budget remained unchanged at $1,451,662 and
Other Funding: the total revenues and associated expenditures increased by $3,877,588 for a
fund total of $20,897,797. The increase is primarily due to additional funding needed for site
acquisition of vacant land at the Madden /Wells property. The estimated sum of all revenues for
fiscal year 2007 and the amount of the fiscal year 2007 Fund Balance available for appropriation
in the fiscal year is equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made or incurred during
the fiscal year and the amount of all unpaid liabilities at the beginning of the fiscal year 2007.
In response to Commissioner Ponce’s question regarding reallocation of additional HUD
Funding received for the Housing Choice Program, staff responded in the affirmative since
Budgets are revised quarterly.
RESOLUTION 2007-CHA-147
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated October 10,
2007, entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2007 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2007 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #3”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves a Lease Agreement with Mahairi Investment Partnership,
LLC for the premises located at 1741-1749 East 75th Street, Chicago, Illinois, 60649. The
Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Program has over 36,000 participants in the City of Chicago
with over 15,000 of those participants living in the Southeastern corridor of the City of Chicago.
Ultimately, the goal is to transform the Southeast side satellite office into a full service HCV
program office and the additional office space is critical to the Plan for Transformation. The
present site of the HCV office, is not large enough to accommodate current program activities.
The new site has ample parking and easy access to public transportation for participants in the
South Shore, Chesterfield, Chatham, Auburn Gresham areas of Chicago. The following are
relevant terms included in the proposed Lease Agreement: total office square footage: 5,000 sq.
ft; Lease Term: Five years; Rent: Year One $6,250.00/monthly, $62,500.00/annually (during the
first year, base rent does not commence for 60 days. CHA will be paying Common Area
Maintenance Charges only during this period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007–CHA–148
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 10,
2007, entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Lease Agreement for the Premises
Located at 1741-49 East 75th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60649”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

7

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) hereby authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or her designee to enter into a Lease Agreement with Mahairi Investment
Partnership, LLC, for approximately 5,000 square feet of office space for the
premises known as 1741-49 East 75th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60649 for a five
(5) year term at a Total Rent (including base rent and common area maintenance
(“CAM”) charges) of $511,000, plus any proportionate share of increased real
estate taxes above the CAM, plus an additional amount not to exceed $50,000 for
the costs of build out to be performed under the lease. The Lease shall include
two options to renew for five (5) year terms, subject to Board approval.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves a new Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) with the
International Union of Operating Engineers of Chicago (Local 399). The CHA employs three
operating engineers, who are members of Local 399, and whose employment terms are governed,
in part by a CBA with Local 399. The CHA’s CBA with Local 399 expired on May 31, 2007,
and the CHA and representatives of Local 399 recently concluded negotiations for a new CBA.
Normally, a new CBA would cover a minimum period of two years. However, the new CBA has
an effective date of June 1, 2007 and will run only through May 31, 2008, as the current
bargaining agreement between the Building Operators and Managers Association (BOMA) and
Local 399 expires on May 18, 2008. Under the new CBA, Operating Engineers will be paid
$31.20 per hour retroactive to June 15, 2007, which represent a $0.95 per hour increase over
their current hourly wage of $30.25. Additionally, the CHA will contribute $2.40 per hour to
Local 399’s employee pension fund, which represents a $0.25 increase over the last contract.
The CHA will also contribute $168.00 per week for the Health and Welfare fund, which
represents a $0.10 per hour or $4.00 per week increase from the last contract. There will be no
increase in the $300.00 per employee per year contribution for the Educational Training Fund,
which the CHA is also required to make under the CBA. The total increased cost to the CHA is
$1.30 per hour, which is 3.56% over the previous CBA. This cost increase places the CHA’s
Operating Engineers on par with the prevailing wages that are paid in the Chicago area.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-149
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 10, 2007
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A NEW COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING AGREEMENT WITH THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF
OPERATING ENGINEERS OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS AND VICINITY
(“LOCAL 399”)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter a new collective bargaining agreement with the International
Union of Operating Engineers of Chicago, Illinois and Vicinity (“Local 399”) for
the period of June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.

8

 There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 