MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 19, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
August 19, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at LeClaire Fieldhouse, 5120 West 44th Street, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Dr. Mildred Harris
Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and
the public at large to address the Board. Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of
the meeting, Terry Peterson, Chief Execute Officer presented his report.
Per Mr. Peterson, a few weeks ago, the Mayor hosted a breakfast for a group of professionals,
leaders, and individuals who have succeeded in a range of different fields. There was a lawyer
from one of the city’s top law firms, and a famous newspaper columnist. There were elected
officials, business owners, religious leaders and several others who simply have earned a decent
living raising a family and living a good life. They all had one thing in common. They were
once public housing residents. According to Mr. Peterson, the event was remarkable not only for
its diversity, but also for the spirit of enthusiasm they all felt for the things that were being
accomplished under the Plan For Transformation to improve the quality of life in CHA. Mr.
Peterson then highlighted several of the accomplishments over the past four years and
summarized goals for the next six years. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by welcoming the
communities input that these meetings afford.
Commissioner Gates then introduced a Motion which was seconded by Commissioner Amey to
adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings
Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to discuss pending,
probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.

1

 A Motion to approve resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was presented by
Commissioner Ivers.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-108
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 4, 2003, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Action Reports for June and July 2003.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for June and
July 2003.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-109
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 30, 2003, entitled “Approval of Reinstatement of
Chairman’s Stipend.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the reinstatement of the stipend for the
Chairman of the Board of Commissioners.

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-110
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 29, 2003,
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Franczek & Sullivan
in connection with Ronald Castro v. CHA, 99 C 6910,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9871 with Franczek & Sullivan to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed $100,000.00 in order to pay for legal
fees and expenses regarding Ronald Castro v. CHA, 99 C 6910 .

The Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Earnest Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the
monthly report for the Joint Tenant Services and Operations Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, August 13, 2003. Per Commissioner Gates, staff presented the Committees with an
update on the new management of Cabrini Green Homes and 1230 North Burling.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A10 and Items A12 thru A17, discussed, voted and recommended for Board
approval by the Joint Tenant Services and Operations & Facilities Committees.
(Item A1)
In January 2001, the Commissioners approved a contract with E.F. Ghoughan for a not-to-exceed
amount of $310,000.00 to provide relocation counseling services only for residents who were
2

 living in the buildings originally planned for closure during Phase II of the relocation process.
Subsequently, additional buildings were added to Phase II that resulted in an additional 65
families who required counseling services. In the fall of 2002, Phase III of the Plan began and
the CHA made the decision to allow families in selected developments where relocation was not
being conducted to choose permanent Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers (HCV’s). This
resulted in 75 additional families who chose permanent HCV’s and required immediate
counseling services, exceeding the previously planned amount of expenses under the contract.
Also, during this time, contract negotiations to add relocation counseling providers were taking
place. Since relocation counseling services for these additional families could not wait while
negotiations were being completed, E.F. Ghoughan provided these services at the same rate of
$1,400 per family as the original contract. The Resolution for Item A1, therefore, ratifies the
CHA’s obligation to pay E.F. Ghoughan for the relocation counseling services provided in
excess of the previously authorized amount.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-111
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated August 8, 2003, entitled, “Ratification of certain CHA
obligations incurred under Contract No. 9597 with E.F. Ghoughan and
authorization to amend Contract No. 9597 for resident relocation services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the CHA’s obligation to pay E. F. Ghoughan
for authorized services rendered in excess of the previously authorized not-toexceed amount of Contract No. 9597 with E. F. Ghoughan and authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to amend Contract No. 9597 to increase
the amount of the Contract by $105,333.00 for the provision of resident relocation
services.

(Item A2)
The CHA provides appliances to residents moving into the private housing market or to residents
being relocated internally. To ensure the anticipated work load in Phase III of the Plan, the CHA
needs an additional vendor to prevent families from being without appliances in case the current
vendor has supply or delivery problems, cannot handle the volume or orders in a timely manner,
or in emergency situations. Accordingly, an Invitation To Bid was advertised in area newspapers
and 38 vendors were directly solicited. Upon review of the bids received, the apparent low
bidder was deemed non-responsible. The resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract to
Lake Region Office Supply, Inc., the second lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-112
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 8, 2003, entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract
with Lake Region Office Supply Inc. for the supply, delivery and installation of new
stoves and refrigerators”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an indefinite quantity contract with Lake Region Office
Supply Inc., for the supply, delivery and installation of up to 400 new stoves and
refrigerators in an amount not-to-exceed $252,510.00, with a minimum
guaranteed amount of $10,000, for a twenty-four month term.

(Item A3)
Since December 1995, Quadel has been the CHA’s private administrator of the Section 8
Programs. Quadel’s contract was due to expire in 2002. In 2001, contract negotiations began
with Quadel, who was the sole respondent to the CHA’s Request For Proposal for a new Section
8 Program administrator. The contract was extended three additional terms with Board
authorization, while negotiations on the new contract were conducted. The resolution for Item
A3 approves additional funds in the amount of $837,806 to close out existing obligations under
the contract for authorized services provided by Quadel.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-113
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 7, 2003,
entitled "Ratification of certain CHA obligations under Modification Nos. 7, 8,
and 9 to Contract No. 8565 and authorization to amend Contract No. 8565
3

 between Quadel Consulting Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for
the administration of the Section 8 Programs".
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the obligations incurred in excess of
the not-to- exceed compensation amount authorized under Modification Nos. 7, 8
and 9 to Contract No. 8565 between Quadel Consulting Corporation and the
Chicago Housing Authority and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 8565 in order to pay Quadel Consulting
Corporation an amount of $837,806.00 for services provided for the
administration of the Section 8 Programs for the period of April 1, 2002 through
November 30, 2002.

(Item A4)
In 2001, the Authority established three pre-qualified pools of private property management
(PPM’s) firms to independently manage multi-family, scattered-site, and/or senior developments.
Annually, CHA issues a Request for Qualifications to allow additional PPM’s the opportunity to
pre-qualify. The current pre-qualified pool expires in April 2004. The current pool contains
twenty-one pre-qualified PPM’s. In the event a current PPM is deemed unable to continue
managing a development, it is necessary to have a pool of qualified PPM’s available to choose
from. The resolution for Item A4 adds the following four firms to its existing pool: Metroplex,
Urban Property Advisors, Hispanic Housing Development Corporation and H.J. Russell.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-114
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 23, 2003,
“Authorization to include additional firms to the three pre-qualification pools of
private property management firms to manage multi-family, senior, and scatteredsite developments”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to include the below listed private property management firms to the
respective prequalification pools:

SENIOR
Metroplex, Inc.
Urban Property
Advisors (MBE)

FAMILY
Metroplex, Inc.
Hispanic Housing
Development Corporation

SCATTERED SITE
Metroplex, Inc.
H.J. Russell (MBE)

(Item A5)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Seniors, a contract was executed with Walsh for
the general comprehensive renovations of various senior locations. The comprehensive
renovation included the installation of new thru-wall air conditions in each unit for Exkhart Park,
Wicker Park, Wicker Park Annex and Franklin Boulevard apartments. CHA discovered that,
because of the age of the buildings, the primary electric service for the buildings needed to be
upgraded to carry the electrical load of the air conditions. ComEd will be installing new
transformers near the buildings to accommodate the new electrical load. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A5 approves a contract modification to the contract with Walsh.
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003- CHA-115
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 16,
2003, entitled “Authorization to execute Contract Modification with
Walsh Construction Company of Illinois for the renovation of various
senior buildings”

THEREOFRE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-05 to Contract No. 9686
with Walsh Construction Company of Illinois for the fixed amount of
$269,612.00 to provide primary electrical services at Eckhart Park
Apartments, Wicker Park Apartments, Wicker Park Annex, and Franklin
Boulevard, with an extension of the completion date on a building-bybuilding basis of forty six (46) non-cumulative calendar days. The new
4

 value of Contract No. 9686 after this Contract Modification No. G-5 is
$51,592,290.67.
(Item A6)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, a contract was executed between the CHA and
Globetrotters Engineering Corporation to provide prime design consulting services in the CHA’s
senior and family developments. The Contract provided for work to be assigned pursuant to task
orders to provide prime design consulting services for the start through the finish of a project.
However, the Contract provided for an expiration date without regard to the status of completion
of the assigned task orders. The previous contract modifications authorized by the Board of
Commissioners included not-to-exceed contract compensation increases and an extension of the
contract term through March 31, 2003. To date, the CHA issued 42 task orders to Globetrotter
for architectural and engineering, as well as certain construction administration services for
various senior housing and family developments. The resolution for Item A6 approves a new
firm fixed fee contract to supercede and replace the Contract and to increase the total contract
amount by $1,676,384 for a new total firm fixed fee of $4,757,497 pursuant to a noncompetitive
procurement based upon a public exigency exception.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-116
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 4, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a new contract with Globetrotters
Engineering Corporation to supercede Contract No. 9378 for ongoing professional
architectural services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a new firm fixed fee contract with Globetrotters
Engineering Corporation (the “PDC”) to supercede and replace Contract No. 9378
with the PDC and to increase the previous not-to-exceed contract amount by
$1,676,384 to establish a new total firm fixed fee in the amount of $4,757,497 for
prime design consulting services required to be performed on the existing task
orders assigned to the PDC for various senior buildings and family housing. The
new contract will be in effect until the PDC’s has performed its required and
necessary services in connection with the completion and close-out of all
construction work on each of its open task orders.

(Item A7)
Similar to Item A6, the resolution for item A7 approves a new contract with ERS/Oppidan to
supercede and replace the existing Contract and to increase the not-to-exceed contract amount by
$1,058,451.00 for a new total firm fixed fee of $4,016,196.00 for all necessary services required
to be performed through the completion and close-out of construction on each of the task orders
assigned, including the remaining open task orders.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-117
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 4, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a new contract with ERS/Oppidan to
supercede Contract No. 9383 for ongoing professional architectural services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a new firm fixed fee contract with ERS, Inc./Oppidan, Inc.,
a joint venture (the “PDC”), to supercede and replace Contract No. 9383 with the
PDC and to increase the previous not-to-exceed contract amount by $1,058,451 to
establish a new total firm fixed fee in the amount of $4,016,196 for prime design
consulting services required to be performed on the existing task orders assigned
to the PDC for various senior buildings, scattered sites housing and critical façade
inspections. The new contract will be in effect until the PDC’s has performed its
required and necessary services in connection with the completion and close-out
of all construction work on each of its open task orders.

(Item A8)
Similar to Item A6 and A7, the resolution for Item A8 approves a new contract with Guajardo
Associates to supercede and replace the existing Contract and to increase the not-to-exceed
contract amount by $619,783.00 for a new total firm fixed fee of $1,986,544.00 for all necessary
5

 services required to be performed through the completion and close-out of construction on each
of the task orders assigned, including the remaining open task orders.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 4, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a new contract with Alphonse G.
Guajardo/Associates, Ltd to supercede Contract No. 9384 for ongoing
professional architectural services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a new firm fixed fee contract with Alphonse G.
Guajardo/Associates LTD (the “PDC”) to supercede and replace Contract No.
9384 with the PDC and to increase the previous not-to-exceed contract amount by
$619,783 to establish a new total firm fixed fee in the amount of $1,986,544 for
prime design consulting services required to be performed on the existing task
orders assigned to the PDC for various senior buildings, family housing and
scattered sites. The new contract will be in effect until the PDC’s has performed
its required and necessary services in connection with the completion and closeout of all construction work on each of its open task orders.

(Item A9)
The resolution for Item A9 approves award of contract to Holabird & Root for the provision of
prime design consulting services at Lake Parc Place. Although the scope of work originally
proposed for the two buildings was limited to repairs to the mechanical and boiler systems,
common area improvements and replacement of the roof on one of the buildings, a subsequent
due diligence inspection of the building revealed the need for a more comprehensive scope of
work. The revised scope of work developed includes the following: new aluminum windows to
accommodate new air conditioning units; new roof on one building; new air conditioning unit
and code improvements for the existing day care center; upgrade of the electrical systems in each
building; and the installation of two new window air conditioning units per individual apartment.
Due to Holabird & Root’s familiarity with the buildings and their extensive positive experience
on CHA projects, this procurement, by non-competitive proposal, is justified by the public
exigency exception found under section 24 CFR 85.2 of the HUD regulations. Securing the
services of Holabird & Root will assist the CHA in attempting to meet its schedule.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A9 approves award of contract to Holabird & Root.
WHERAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-119
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 11, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Holabird & Root for prime
design consulting services at Lake Parc Place.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Contract with Holabird & Root, LLC for a firm fixed price
of $ 125,000.00 for prime design consulting services at Lake Parc Place.

(Item A10)
The resolution for Item A10 approves award of contract to Smith-Harding Joint Venture for
Prime Design Consultant (PDC) services at City-State properties. It is essential that the CHA
use a non-competitive procurement to assign this work. Smith-Harding has served as the PDC
on all of the state-funded construction initiatives at City-State properties over the past three
years, including projects currently in the design and/or construction phases. Further, SmithHarding has developed baseline design documents for all the City-State properties. Third,
Smith-Harding currently serves as the Architect of Record on these projects. By continuing with
Smith-Harding, CHA can avoid the standard five percent (5%) escalation of construction costs
on this project, and can similarly avoid delays in the start of construction on the project. Fourth,
as work has already commenced, introduction of a new PDC firm at this juncture would create
significant liability and risk allocation concerns, and would create considerable difficulties
relating to construction management issues on the project. Finally, retaining Smith-Harding as
the PDC for this project will result in a significant cost savings to the CHA, as Smith-Harding
has already invested considerable time and effort in creating designs for this project, for which
CHA has already paid them approximately $165,000.
6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-120
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 8, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Smith-Harding for Prime
Design Consultant Services for certain City-State properties”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Smith-Harding for Prime Design Consultant
services for the City-State properties at Harrison Courts, Ogden Courts, Lathrop
Elderly, and Loomis Courts in an amount not-to-exceed $1,483,000.00. The time
for completion of work under the contract will be seven hundred thirty (730)
calendar days from the date of the notice to proceed.

(Item A12)
General repairs of additional units are required to provide relocation units needed under the
Scattered Sites Program and Make Ready Program for CHA residents who must move because
of the demolition and consolidation of high-rise developments under the Plan for
Transformation. The CHA finds that closely administered Time and Material contracts best
enable it to meet its objectives under the Plan to provide these required relocation units.
$26,000,000 will be dedicated to the Scattered Sites Program, and $8,000,000 will be dedicated
to the “Make-Ready” program. Accordingly, in April 2002, the CHA advertised Invitation for
Bid for Time and Material contracts for general maintenance and repairs of CHA units at various
CHA developments and Scattered Sites. The CHA directly solicited 52 firms, including 33
M/WBE firms and 31 responses were received. After a review of the bid prices, it was
determined that Time and Material contracts be awarded to the seventeen lowest responsive and
responsible bidders in the amount of $2,000,000 each. The term of the proposed contracts are
two years with a one (1) year option. Details of the work have been discussed with each
proposed contractor to assure that they understand the scope of the work, nature of the contract
and requirements of the CHA. The CHA’s MBE/WBE requirements and Section 3 participation
will be based on individual task order amounts. The resolution for Item A12 approves award of
Time and Material contracts to the seventeen named contractors in the following resolution.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 5, 2005,
2003, entitled “Authorization to execute seventeen contracts for general
maintenance and repairs at various CHA Scattered Sites and Make Ready
locations - (IFB No.01197)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute seventeen (17) Time and Material contracts with: C&H Joint
Ventures, Broadway Consolidated, G.F. Structures, J & L Associates, All
Chicago, Exciting Ventures, Old Veterans, O.A.K.K. Construction, Bryn Mawr
Electric, Cotton Construction, HLF Construction, Telander Construction, FEL
Services, Done-Rite Construction, XGD Corporation, II In One, and Maxwell
Services each in the amount of $2,000,000 for a cumulative, not-to-exceed
contract value of $34,000,000. The contract duration for the proposed contracts
will be determined through the assignment of individual task orders, all in
accordance with IFB No.01197.

(Item A13)
The resolution for Item A13 approves the Form of Lease and Tenant Selection Plan for Stateway
Gardens, Phase IA Pershing Courts. The approval of the Form of Lease and Tenant Selection
Plan is required at this time to facilitate the closing of this development transaction. Both
documents have been subject to extensive negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, the
Working Group and the Local Advisory Committee; the documents are recommended as
acceptable. Notice for the public comment period has been given in accordance with applicable
requirements and consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments in finalizing the
documents with the Developer and the owner entity.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 21, 2003,
entitled “Authorization for approval of the Form of Lease and Tenant Selection
Plan for the Stateway Gardens’ Redevelopment Phase IA-Pershing Courts and to
7

 amend the CHA Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate such document
as an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and
Tenant Selection Plan in substantially the form presented to the Board for the
Stateway Gardens’ redevelopment Phase 1A-Pershing Courts, and hereby
approves an amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s Admission and
Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as an addenda. The
Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD
requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice and
comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A14)
Similar to Item A13, the resolution for Item A14 approves a Form of Lease and Tenant Selection
Plan for the Hilliard Homes Phase I and Phase II. It is understood that the owner entities,
Hilliard Homes I Limited Partnership and Hilliard Homes II Limited Partnership, have an
interest and desire to implement their own lease forms that encourage consistent community
standards and for the effective management of its mixed income developments. The lease has to
accommodate various aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed
finance transaction. The developer and residents expect that the same lease will be used for
residents of both phases. These criteria has been developed over the course of lengthy
discussions with the current residents and elected representatives of Hilliard, Holsten Real Estate
Development Corporation, Holsten Management Corporation, the owner entities, and CHA staff.
The Form of Lease and Tenant Selection Plan is required at this time to facilitate this
development transaction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-123
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2003,
entitled “Authorization for approval of a Form of Lease and Tenant Selection
Plan for the public housing units at the Hilliard Homes Mixed-Finance
Redevelopment (both phases of the rehabilitation of Hilliard homes) and to amend
the CHA Admissions and Occupancy Policy to incorporate such document as an
addendum thereto and to approve any amendments to the Phase I closing
documents related thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and
Tenant Selection Plan for the public housing units at the Hilliard Homes mixedfinance redevelopment (both phases of the rehabilitation of Hilliard Homes) and
hereby approves an amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s Admissions
and Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as an addenda and any
amendments to the Phase I closing documents related thereto. The Chairman of
the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements or other
regulatory agency requirements. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A15)
On March 19, 2003, CHA’s Board Resolution No. 2003-CHA-37 approved up to $3,000,000 in
Capital Funds for the development of Stateway Garden’s Phase 1A- Pershing Courts. Since the
March Resolution, there have been changes to the project’s funding needs resulting from budget
refinements and additional project costs incurred associated with administration and closing.
The resolution for Item A15 amends the limit of CHA’s capital contribution commitment not-toexceed $3,329,625. The total Pershing Courts development budget is $17,163,756.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-124
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 19,
2003, Entitled “Authorization to amend Resolution No. 2003-CHA-37 for
Stateway Garden’s Phase 1A Off-site Development Project known as Pershing
Courts”.
8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves and authorizes the amendment to
Resolution No. 2003-CHA-37 for Stateway Garden’s Phase 1A Off-site
Development Project known as Pershing Courts, to change the limit of CHA’s
capital contribution commitment to an amount not-to-exceed $3,329,625.00”.

(Item A16)
In September 2001, the Board approved a resolution to execute a purchase agreement for a 40
year leasehold interest in 54 condominium units at Old Town Village East, Phase II (16 units)
and Old Town Village West (38 units). Thereafter, on June 17, 2003, CHA’s Board of
Commissioners approved a resolution amending the original Board Resolution of September
2001 to reflect a separation of the Old Town Village East, Phase II transaction from the Old
Town Village West Transaction. The negotiations for the purchase of the leasehold interests in
the Old Town Village West units had been delayed and were finalized on July 21, 2003, between
the Receiver, on behalf of the CHA, and MCL, as the Developer of Old Town Village West.
The resolution for Item A16 approves further amendments to reflect changes relative to the
method of development, increased total purchase price, increase the amount of CHA’s
contribution for the purchase of the 38 Units at Old Town Village West, and financing structure
specific to the 38 units subject to the Old Town Village West transaction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-125
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated July 29, 2003,
entitled “Authorization, amending a September 18, 2001 Board resolution, as first
amended on June 17, 2003, to enter into an agreement with MCL Companies
(MCL) for the purchase of a forty (40) year leasehold interest in 38 condominium
units at Old Town Village West through the acquisition method of development,
change the source and increase the amount of funds to be utilized for the purchase
of the Old Town Village West units, submit project for approval by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and execute any and all
documents required in connection with this transaction”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
Further amend the September 18, 2001 Board Resolution, as first amended on
June 17, 2003, and thereby,
(1) submit an Acquisition Proposal to HUD, in collaboration with the Habitat
Company (“Receiver”) for the purchase of leasehold interests in the 38 Units at
Old Town Village West;
(2) increase the total purchase price for the 38 Units at Old Town Village West
from $5,160,000 to $5,260,874 due to modifications to the original floor plans;
(3) increase the amount of CHA’s contribution for the Old Town Village West
transaction from $4,248,000 to $5,787,634;
(4) forego the utilization of HUD Development Funds Program IL06P002182 for
the purchase of the 38 Units at Old Town Village West; and
(5) utilize 1994 Cabrini Green HOPE VI Funds IL06URD0021294 for the Old
Town Village West transaction in an amount not to exceed $5,787,634.

(Item A17)
In October 2002, the Board approved an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
to convey 218,076 sq. ft. of CHA-owned parcels in the Lawndale, West Pullman, KenwoodOakland and Grand Boulevard communities to the City of Chicago in exchange for the
acquisition of 218,948 sq. ft. of City-owned parcels in the Oakland and Grand Boulevard
communities. The resolution for Item A17 approves an amendment to that resolution and
replaces Exhibit A that clarifies the list of lots that will be received by CHA from the City, and
also authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, to modify, if necessary, the list of parcels received
from the City provided the total square footage exceeds or is within ten percent of the total to be
transferred by CHA, and falls within the general area of the Robert Taylor Phase C.
9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-126
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 19, 2003,
entitled “Amendment to resolution CHA– 2002-145 that requested authorization
to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement for Land Transfers with the City of
Chicago for City-owned parcels amending the list of City parcels and to authorize
the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, to modify, if necessary, the list of
parcels received from the City provided the total square footage exceeds or is
within ten percent of the total to be transferred by CHA, and falls within the
general area of the Robert Taylor Phase C” and concurs with the
recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby amends Resolution CHA–2002-145, that
requested authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement For Land
Transfers with the City of Chicago for City-owned parcels, by amending the list
of City parcels to substitute the attached Exhibit A, and authorize the Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, to modify, if necessary, the list of parcels
received from the City provided the total square footage exceeds or is within ten
percent of the total to be transferred by CHA, and falls within the general area of
the Robert Taylor Phase C.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A10 and Items A12 thru A17 was
seconded by Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Joint Tenant Services and Operations & Facilities Committees
report was also accepted in total.
(Item A11 - Amended)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Seniors (CIP), the Authority solicited bids for
Senior Housing Rehabilitation at The Lake Michigan Apartments (4227 S. Oakenwald). The
Invitation For Bid was advertised in area newspapers and the Authority directly solicited fiftyfour firms, including sixteen MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Based on the bids received, it was
determined that Michuda Construction is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at
$6,584,228.00. The scope of work will include refurbishing of parking lots, rehabilitated
kitchens and bathrooms, new floor tiles, new refrigerators, ranges, ovens, repairs of damage
walls and ceilings and the construction of ADA compliant apartment units. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A11 approves award of contract to Michuda Construction.
Commissioner Gates then presented a Motion for approval of Item A11, subject to further
verification of Michuda’s Section 3 commitments, by the CHA’s Contracting Officer, prior to
contract execution.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-127
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 25, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Michuda Construction, Inc.
for senior housing rehabilitation at the Lake Michigan Apartments (IL2-41) IFB No.: 01203”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Michuda Construction, Inc. for Senior
10

 Housing Rehabilitation at the Lake Michigan Apartments (IL2-41) in a firm-fixed
price of $6,584,228.00 for a term of three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days,
subject to further verification of Michuda’s Section 3 commitments, by the
CHA’s Contracting Officer, prior to contract execution.
The Motion to adopt Item A11, as amended, was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Lori Healey, Interim Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then
presented her monthly report. Per Commissioner Healey, the Finance and Audit Committee held
its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, August 13, 2003, at 1:30 p.m. at the 626
Corporate Office. Due to time constraints, reports were deferred to the September Committee
meeting.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance
Committee.
(Item B1)
The Travel Policy provides guidelines for Board members, employees, residents and other
authorized individuals traveling on official CHA business. The resolution for Item B1 approves
the Revised Travel Policy which provides for the following: allows employees to utilize ground
transportation allowance for parking at Chicago Airports long term parking lots; extending
Group I and Group II cities to include Rhode Island, ME, San Diego, CA and Ft. Lauderdale, FL;
and modifies the Official Travel Request Form to include applicable taxes and modifies the
mileage reimbursement rate.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-128
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 18, 2003,
requesting adoption of the revised Travel Policy and concurs in the
recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
Travel Policies and resolutions related to the approval of such policy.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Travel Policy dated July 18, 2003, attached hereto as Exhibit A.

THAT,

the revised Travel Policy dated July 18, 2003, shall be effective immediately.

(Item B2)
The CHA desires to create a pre-qualified pool of energy services companies (ESCO’s) which
will be requested to bid upon and submit proposals in response to future RFPs for energy
performance contracts for specific CHA projects. These services will result in reduced energy
consumption and associated costs for one or more of the following systems: water, lighting,
heating, ventilation and air conditioning, the building envelope, and/or domestic energy
consumption, including but not limited to domestic refrigeration, lighting and hot water heating.
Accordingly, a Request for Qualifications was issued in April 2003 and twenty firms were
directly solicited including one MBE/WBE firm and one ROB. Of the five firms deemed
11

 responsive and responsible, three were determined to be most qualified and anticipated to be
eligible to work on future CHA projects.
The resolution for Item B2 approves the maintenance of a pool of three pre-qualified energy
services companies for future projects.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-129
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 17, 2003,
titled “Authorization to maintain a pool of three (3) pre-qualified Energy Services
Companies (ESCO’s) for future projects to increase the energy efficiency at
various CHA locations.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to maintain three (3) pre-qualified energy services companies (ESCO’S)
for future projects to increase the energy efficiency at various CHA locations,
with specific expertise in energy services contracting for two (2) years.

(Item B3)
Under the Plan for Transformation, there has been a substantial reduction in force of CHA’s full
time maintenance and repair staff as a result of these functions being shifted to private property
managers. As a result, the CHA has been reducing its administrative burden and overhead costs
associated with operating and maintaining the warehouse facilities to house inventory of surplus
and obsolete equipment and supplies for such maintenance and repair work. In August 2001, the
Board approved a contract with Rick Levin & Associates to sell CHA’s surplus inventory and
obsolete equipment and supplies, and to reduce its fleet passenger cars and heavy duty
equipment. The contract expires in August 2003. The resolution for Item B3 grants authority to
exercise the option to extend the contract with Rick Levin for an additional year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003 – CHA-130
WHEREAS, the board of commissioners have reviewed board letter dated July 7, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to Exercise an Option to for one year the contract with
Rick Levin & Associates to Provide Auctioneering Services for all Warehouse
Inventory.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the option to extend for one year from August 24, 2003 until
August 23, 2004. Contract 9666 with Rick Levin & Associates for auctioneering
services in an amount not to exceed $31,430 for pre-auction advertising/security
expenses plus (1) 10% commission of gross warehouse inventory sales and (b)
5% commission, without other costs, of gross fleet passenger/heavy duty
equipment vehicles sales. The term of the Agreement will be paid from the
proceeds of each auction.

(Item B4)
As the Plan For Transformation proceeds, the Authority must have systems and supporting
infrastructure in place to monitor progress, process and provide reliable information and support
decision-making. Due to the critical nature of CHA’s and the City of Chicago/Sister Agency
new application initiatives, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued in March 2003 for Network
Infrastructure and Support Services. The RFP competitively solicited qualified firms and/or
individuals, which could provide network infrastructure services for the CHA. The RFP was
advertised in area newspapers and the CHA also directly solicited ninety one firms, including
forty five MBE/WBE firms. Based on the recommendation of the evaluating committee, the
resolution for Item B4 approves contract award to SBC and Tugtel in a contract amount of
$1,762,217.00 and $1,193,900.00, respectively.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-131
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated August 13, 2003, titled “Authorization to enter into a contract
with SBC Communications and Tugtel Communications for Network
Infrastructure and Support Services”.

12

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with SBC Communications and Tugtel
Communications pursuant to RFP for Network Infrastructure and Support
Services for a two-year term for a total contract amount not-to-exceed
$1,762,217.00 and $1,193,900.00, respectively.

(Item B5)
The mission of the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) is to respond to allegations or incidents
of waste, fraud and abuse at the CHA. With the significant downsizing of the Authority, the
OIG’s work load has decreased. The resolution for Item B5 approves a restructuring of the
OIG’s office to more closely reflect the dimensions of a streamlined CHA as well as current
work loads. The restructured OIG would be headed by a “Manager of Audit and Investigations”
and staffed by a “Financial Criminal Investigator”, “Criminal Investigator”, and an “Auditor”.
The Office of the General Counsel would provide administrative support to the investigators,
auditor and the Manager. Audit and Investigations would report to the General Counsel. This
reorganization would provide sufficient resources and staffing to investigate allegations of fraud,
abuse and wrong-doing while providing a cost savings of approximately $345,000 to the
Authority.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-132
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 29, 2003,
requesting authorization to reorganize the Office of the Inspector General,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to reorganize the Office of the Inspector General so that it is headed by a
“Manager, Audit and Investigations” and staffed Investigator”, a “Criminal
Investigator” and an “Auditor.”

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B5 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

13

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 