Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
May 15, 2012
CHA Main Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

Question/Comment

William Lawrence Scott

1) I speak on a couple items in praise. I am pleased
CHA is in sync with the rest of the city on the NATO
summit. I was hoping seniors would be kept posted
concerning the planning, and I was pleased by this.
2) Secondly, I picked up the summer youth
opportunities program listing, and everyone should
become involved. I am going to be involved with CHA
summer jobs sites and I will be reporting to you how
these kids are doing.
I am here on behalf of Smyth School. There have
been issues in the Roosevelt Square area. There is a
capable principal at this school and we want to ensure
the students have the chance to get a good education,
and not be affected by some of the negative things
happening in the city. After School Matters is
important in this area, and I want to see as much of
this as possible. We want to see a close collaboration
between CHA and the community.
I would like to say, what about the residents? We
have no representation, we have gone from residents
to refugees. We are not being represented, and
people are making decisions for us. We live side-byside with each other, homeowners can bbq, and I
can't. Homeowners can do anything they want. We
need representation - when will this rule be changed?
We are not refugees. What about us?

1

Dennis Oneill

2

Francine Washington

3

Response

1

Thank you for your comments.

Thank you for your comment.

As a matter of policy, property management at certain
developments do not permit grilling in rental units. These
prohibitions are across the board for all renters, regardless of
income status and are outlined in the lease agreement that
residents signed when they moved into their unit. All renters,
including but not limited to public housing residents are bound
by the conditions and terms of the lease. Mixed Income/Mixed
Finance residents may contact the Ombudsman with their
concerns in this area.

 Gloria March

1) I have pictures related to criminal activity going on
in Altgeld. My daughter was stabbed in the leg and
my property was vandalized.

1) Criminal activity at Altgeld Gardens is being monitored and
addressed daily by Maverick Security and CPD, when
necessary. Concerning the stabbing referenced in your
comment, the perpetrator has been arrested.

2) I went to speak with management yesterday, and
the meeting was stopped because I was taking notes
and property management didn't like that.

2) CHA is currently looking into this matter.

3) I was told I needed to get three police reports

4

4) I was told they were going to look at the tapes from
the security cameras. I went to the office to speak
with Ms. Smith, and she has a short fuse. We want a
meeting with her supervisors.

2

3) We’re assuming you are referencing the Victim Assistance
Program, which does not have a “three police report” rule. Any
resident who believes they are the victim of a crime, can call the
Victims Assistance program at 312-913-7396. In order for a
resident to move under the Administrative Mandatory Transfer
policy – they will need one of the following pieces of
documentation: Police report, intake assessment, letter from the
States Attorney’s Office or Attorney General’s Office, HUD form
50066 (in cases under Violence Against Women Act), Order of
Protection, letter from a domestic violence or sexual violence
program or shelter or an arson report from the Chicago Fire
Dept.
Again, should you have any questions, or if you believe you are
the victim of a crime, please call the Victim Assistance program
at 312-913-7396.

4) Lastly, we believe the security camera footage you are
referencing has to do with your stolen patio furniture. At this
point, we ask that you please follow-up on the police report you
filed with CPD.

 