MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
June 21, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on
Tuesday, June 21, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Schneider Apartments, 1750 West Peterson,
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Mary Wiggins

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General
Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr.
Peterson, on Monday, June 20th a press conference was held in Cabrini-Green to unveil a
model of the Parkside Development that shows what the community will look like a few
years from now when some of the high rises are replaced by mixed-income housing.
According to Mr. Peterson, he was joined by elected officials, community leaders, and
most important, residents – who all talked about a common vision for the area: a strong,
healthy mixed-income community where public housing residents can live side-by-side
with working families and professionals. Mr. Peterson continued by saying that the
Parkside Development rehab work as well as rehab work for Washington Park Homes
and some nearby scattered site properties was listed on the agenda for Board approval.
Also on the agenda, are contracts for supportive services in Lake Park Crescent and the
Wells area. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by requesting the support of the residents
and public at large for his vision of creating an environment in which meaningful change
can occur.
At approximately 8:45 a.m., Commissioner Lori Healey and Commissioner Martin Nesbitt
joined the meeting in session.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting
residents and the public at large to address the Board.

1

 Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced
and seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one
(1) hour to discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters,
security and personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Nesbitt then presented a Motion to approve Executive Session Item 1.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-80
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the Board Letter dated June 3, 2005 requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for May 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report
for May 2005.

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, June 15 at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
Offices. Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of
Resolutions for Items A1 through A4 and A6 discussed, voted and recommended for
Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item A1)
In April 2005, a Request For Proposal was advertised in area newspapers to solicit
marketing services to effectively communicate to families the opportunities and benefits
available if they choose to return to Replacement Housing under the CHA Plan for
Transformation. In addition, twenty-four firms were directly solicited. Three respondents
were determined to be within the competitive range and were invited to make oral
presentation. Based upon the evaluation of the written proposals, the oral presentations,
and best and final offers, the evaluation committee recommended that Carolyn Grisko &
Associates (CG&A) be awarded the contract. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1
approves award of marketing contract to CG&A.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-81
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the Board Letter dated June 15, 2005, entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
2

 CAROLYN GRISKO &
MARKETING SERVICES
HOUSING”;

ASSOCIATES, INC. TO PROVIDE
FOR THE CHA’S REPLACEMENT

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Carolyn Grisko & Associates, Inc. to
provide marketing services for the CHA’s rehabilitated housing units and
new mixed-income developments for a base term of one year in an amount
not to exceed $120,000with a one year extension option, subject to Board
approval.

(Item A2)
In September 2003, the Board approved a Contract with Lake Park Crescent I, LLC to
provide community & supportive services (CSS) to the Lake Park Crescent Community.
Typically, when implementing CSS in a given development, the CHA enters into a
contract with the developer whereby the developer then directly subcontracts with a social
service provider of its choice to provide these services. Despite extensive negotiations,
CHA and LPC were unable to enter into a formal CSS Contract. On February 3, 2005,
CHA’s Sole Source/Non-Competitive Procurement Committee heard and subsequently
approved the selection of Abraham Lincoln Center as a non-competitive procurement. As a
result, the Resolution for Item A2 approves a contract award to the Abraham Lincoln
Center to prevent an interruption in services for families in the screening process at Lake
Park Crescent. Services will also focus on community integration, employment and other
services to help families to maintain occupancy and continue to meet the site specific
criteria at the Lake Park Crescent development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 15,
2005 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO NEGOTIATE AND ENTER INTO
A CONTRACT WITH ABRAHAM LINCOLN CENTRE TO PROVIDE
COMMUNITY & SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO THE LAKE PARK
CRESCENT COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or his designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with Abraham Lincoln
Centre for a term of twelve (12) months with a one (1) year option to
provide community and supportive services to the Lake Park Crescent
Community for an amount not to exceed $353,353.00.

(Item A3)
The Resolution for Item A3 approves acceptance of a grant award from the Illinois Sate
Board of Education and ratification of a contract to Open Kitchens for the 2005 Summer
Food Program. The Summer Food Program is to extend the National Food Program
through the summer vacation months to insure that boys and girls living in CHA
developments receive the nutritional help needed for proper physical development. The
Program will serve approximately 12,000 breakfast meals per day at approximately 145
sites at a cost of $ 1.198 per meal and approximately 15,000 cold/hot lunches per day at
approximately 145 sites at a cost of $1.878 per meal. The meals will be served for twohour periods, five days a week, in all developments at locations in community centers,
social rooms, or facilities-site. There will also be approximately 70 special events during
the duration of the program at which meals will be served. The program runs for 55 days
and will begin June 20, 2005 and end September 3, 2005. The CHA advertised an
Invitation for Bid (IFB) in April 2005 in area newspapers and directly solicited fifteen
vendors including one MBE/WBE firm. Open Kitchens, Inc. was the sole respondent.
The only response was due in part to few USDA certified kitchens in the Chicagoland area
and few vendors meet all CHA requirements. The Procurement is, therefore, qualified as
non-competitive due to the inadequate response to the solicitations.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-83
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the Board Letter dated June 15, 2005 entitled:
“AUTHORIZATION TO ACCEPT A GRANT FROM THE ILLINOIS
STATE BOARD OF EDUCATION FOR THE SUMMER FOOD
SERVICES PROGRAM AND RATIFIACTION OF A CONTRACT
WITH OPEN KITCHENS INC. FOR THE 2005 SUMMER FOOD
SERVICES PROGRAM.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept an Illinois State Board of Education Grant for the
Summer Food Program in the amount of $4,466,959.40 and ratifies a
contract for the 2005 Summer Food Services Program with Open Kitchens,
Inc., from June 20, 2005 to September 3, 2005 for a total amount not to
exceed $2,540,763.00.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves extension of Abt’s contract with the CHA to continue
to provide assistance to the MAP Department in fulfilling its responsibilities within the
requisite timeframes in the areas of technical assistance, document development, and
training program development. During the past two years, Abt has provided the CHA with
satisfactory service and has performed all tasks expected. Responsibilities have included
the creation or amendment of resident documents, including admissions and continued
occupancy policies, procedures, resident leases as well as training on various programs and
documents for CHA residents and staff. Although Abt will increase the hourly rate of the
principal associate for the one year option, their rates remain competitive.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-84
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the memorandum dated June 15, 2005 entitled, “Authorization to
Extend Contract No. 0365 with Abt Associates, Inc. for Consultant
Services for Low Income Public Housing/Housing Choice Voucher
Program Policies and Procedures.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 0365 with Abt
Associates, Inc. (the “Contract”) for the period of May 28, 2005 to May 27,
2006 to provide consultant services for low-income public housing and
housing choice voucher program polices and procedures to the CHA for an
amount not-to-exceed $90,000 pursuant to the Contract’s option to extend.

(Item A5 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)
(Item A6)
The CHA currently has approximately 84,000 applicant records in multiple wait lists that
have not been comprehensively updated since the Plan for Transformation Plan was
implemented. The family/community wide wait list has been formally closed since March
15, 2001, to ensure that all current and former residents are housed in newly rehabilitated
or constructed units as a first priority to the CHA. A couple of years ago, the CHA
approved the enhancement of its electronic records system by upgrading from CCS to the
YARDI system.
This updated information will lead to more effective marketing and
outreach efforts and activities, thereby decreasing the staff time and funds used to fill unit
vacancies. Further, by updating the wait lists the CHA will be better enabled to conduct
analyses to compare household needs in the applicant pool with our current and future
housing stock. This update ensures compliance with the federal regulations and the CHA’s
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy since wait list maintenance is a key
component of the management, monitoring and auditing functions of the CHA’s wait list
responsibilities. Accordingly, the Resolution for Item A6 approves award of contract to

4

 Datum Direct Marketing for conducting the update of the family/community wide wait
lists.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA -85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 15,
2005, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AWARD CONTRACT TO
DATUM DIRECT MARKETING FOR CONDUCTING THE UPDATE
OF THE FAMILY/COMMUNITY WIDE PUBLIC HOUSING WAIT
LISTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Datum Direct Marketing in the amount
not-to-exceed $328,808.10 for conducting the update of the
family/community wide public housing wait lists. The contract shall take
effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed, July 1, 2005 for a six-month
period ending December 31, 2005. The award of this contract is subject to
the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3
resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A4 and A6 was seconded
by Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also
accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee, then presented
the monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facility Committee held
its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, June 15, 2005, at approximately 1:30 p.m.
at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices. There were no presentations to come before the
Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for
Items B1 through B6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the
Operations Committee.
(Item B1
The resolution for Item B1 approves amendment to Contract No. 9376 with Consoer
Townsend Envirodyne Engineers, Inc. (CTE) for additional Prime Design Consultant
(PDC) services at the Larrabee Apartments (IL2-071) Senior housing property at 1845 N.
Larrabee. In July of 2000, the CHA executed Contract No. 9376 with Consoer Townsend
Envirodyne Engineers, Inc. (CTE) for Prime Design Consultant (PDC) services on the full
renovation at Larrabee Apartments. In 2005, the CHA negotiated an Amended and
Restated contract with CTE. As part of CTE’s original scope of work, CTE was required to
prepare the Construction Documents for the rehabilitation of Larrabee Apartments. These
Construction Documents, including drawings and specifications, were completed in 2001.
The rehabilitation of Larrabee Apartments was advertised and bid, but the procurement
was eventually cancelled and the work was never started. The CHA anticipates that the full
renovation of Larrabee Apartments will move forward in early 2006. In order to move
5

 forward with that solicitation in sufficient time to meet unit completion goals for FY 2006,
CTE will need to begin work on the full set of Construction Documents by mid-July of
2005.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-86
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 11,
2005, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND CONTRACT NO. 9376
WITH CONSOER TOWNSEND ENVIRODYNE ENGINEERS, INC.
(CTE) FOR THE PROVISION OF PRIME DESIGN CONSULTANT
SERVICES AT LARRABEE APARTMENTS (IL2-071)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9376 with Consoer Townsend Envirodyne
Engineers, Inc. to increase it’s funding by $394,071.00 for Prime Design
Consultant services at Larrabee Apartments (IL2-071). The new total
contract amount for Contract No. 9376 will be $2,952,011.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
In March 2005, the CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid for interior demolition, asbestos
abatement, mold remediation, and cleaning at Flannery Senior Apartments (IL2-042F) –
Building 2. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and faxes were sent to eighteen
firms, including seven M/W/DBE firms. The CHA received and opened six bids. As part
of the pre-award survey, the Department of Procurement and Contracts (“DPC”)
determined that the apparent low bidder’s submittal was non-responsive due to the bidder’s
failure to include the required Bid Bond. DPC then determined that the lowest responsive
and responsible bidder was HLF with a bid of $1,398,800.00. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item B2 approves award of contract to HLF. HLF will perform selective demolition to
portions of the interior of the building. This work will include the demolition and removal
of mechanical equipment, piping services, ductwork, plumbing fixtures, hot water heating
piping, steam and condensate piping. The required asbestos abatement will include
removal and proper disposal of all specified asbestos containing and contaminated
materials, including pipe insulation, pipe fittings, fixture caulk, window caulk, asbestos
containing fire doors, and floor tile and mastic. Mold remediation will be done throughout
all of the units. The Contractor will conduct final cleaning and waste-removal operations
both within the building and on the project site, in order to leave both clean and ready for
construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 15, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
H.L.F. CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR INTERIOR DEMOLITION,
ASBESTOS ABATEMENT, MOLD REMEDIATION, AND CLEANING
AT FLANNERY SENIOR APARTMENTS (IL2-042F) – BUILDING 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to execute a contract with H.L.F. Construction Company in the
amount of $1,398,800.00 for interior demolition, asbestos abatement, mold
remediation, and cleaning at Flannery Senior Apartments (IL2-042F) –
Building 2, 1507 N. Clybourn. The term of the contract is two hundred
seventy (270) calendar days from receipt of the Notice to Proceed. This
award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
6

 (Item B3)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in April 2005 for electrical system upgrades at
Lake Parc Place Apartments, 3939 S. Lake Park Avenue (IL2 -014) and 3983 So. Lake
Park Avenue (IL2-026). The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA
website. The CHA also faxed flyers on April 18, 2005 to sixteen firms, including nine
M/W/DBE firms. Of the six bids received and opened, the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder was determined to be General Building & Maintenance Company. The
selected contractor will perform general work on the two (2) high rise buildings to include
the following: installation of new air conditioner units in the bedrooms, installation of
emergency generators, installation of a new exit door, and some general building
improvements.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 15, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH
GENERAL BUILDING & MAINTENANCE COMPANY FOR
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM UPGRADES AT LAKE PARC PLACE
APARTMENTS (IL2-014 & IL2-026)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to execute a contract with General Building & Maintenance
Company in the amount of $656,655.00 to perform electrical system
upgrades at Lake Parc Place Apartments, 3939 S. Lake Park Avenue (IL2 014) and 3983 So. Lake Park Avenue (IL2-026). The term of the contract
will be two hundred and ten (210) calendar days from receipt of the Notice
to Proceed. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
An IFB was advertised in area newspapers and the CHA website in April 2005 for the
family housing rehabilitation at Washington Park Homes and Washington Park Scattered
Sites. This work represents Phase 3 of the ongoing rehabilitation of the Washington Park
properties. The CHA also faxed flyers on April 14, 2005 to twenty three firms, including
twelve M/W/DBE firms. Of the six bids received and opened, the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder was determined to be H. L. F. Construction Company, Inc.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to HLF Construction
Company.
H.L.F. will be awarded all three (3) clusters of buildings scheduled for
renovation under this solicitation. The contract will begin upon receipt of the Notice to
Proceed, and all work is to be completed by December 15, 2005. The Scope of Work
includes, but is not limited to, the rebuilding, repairs and/or replacement of masonry walls,
roofing and drainage, new double hung windows, entry doors, stoops and site walks,
landscaping, and parking lots. Interior work will include the complete renovation of all
interior dwelling Units and common areas. New appliances and plumbing fixtures will be
installed. Buildings will receive new electrical systems, through-wall air conditioners in
each Unit, and new heating systems. Each Unit will be wired for multiple telephone
service connections and cable television connections.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 15, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
H.L.F. CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
REHABILITATION AT WASHINGTON PARK HOMES (IL2-034 LR)
AND WASHINGTON PARK SCATTERED SITES (IL2-054 LR)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to execute a contract with H.L.F. Construction Company in the
amount of $4,752,681.00 for the Family housing rehabilitation at
7

 Washington Park Homes (IL2-034 LR) and Washington Park Scattered
Sites (IL2-054 LR). H.L.F. The contract will begin upon receipt of the
Notice to Proceed, and all work is to be completed by December 15, 2005.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B5)
The Stateway Associates, LLC team was the successful respondent pursuant to the 2000
RFQ solicitation issued by CHA and Habitat for the redevelopment of the Stateway
Gardens site. HUD has indicated that since a competitive process was engaged to procure
the Stateway Gardens Redevelopment Team as identified in the Plan approved by HUD,
and since the engineered barrier approach to remediation involves construction elements to
be performed post-closing, there is justification to enter into an environmental remediation
contract with the Parties. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award of
contract to Stateway Associates, LLC, to perform remediation activities in support of the
Stateway Gardens Redevelopment Phase IB (also known as Park Boulevard). The
following benefits to the project will be realized:
(1) continuity of schedule; (2)
continuity of activity; and (3) economy of scale.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-90
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, June 15,
2005, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
STATEWAY ASSOCIATES, LLC, PARK BOULEVARD 1B, LLC and
PARK BOULEVARD 1B, FOR ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION
ACTIVITIES
AT
STATEWAY
GARDENS
PHASE
1B
REDEVELOPMENT AREA”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Stateway Associates, LLC an Illinois
limited liability company, and Park Boulevard 1B, LLC, an Illinois limited
liability company, (jointly and severally, the “Developer”), and Park
Boulevard 1B, an Illinois limited partnership (“Owner Entity”) (collectively
referred to as the “Parties”), for a total contract amount not to exceed
$4,190,750.00 (which represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost
for the Stateway Gardens Phase 1B Redevelopment Area) to perform
remediation activities in support of the Stateway Gardens Phase 1B
Redevelopment Area (also known as “Park Boulevard”). The term of the
contract shall be the earlier of: receipt of the final “No Further
Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency with
regards to the Stateway Gardens Phase 1B Redevelopment Area, or two
years with a one year extension, subject to approval of the CHA’s Board of
Commissioners approval and if required, HUD approval.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for
the Stateway Gardens Phase IB Redevelopment Project known as Park Boulevard. Park
Boulevard-Phase IB represents the first on-site phase of the Stateway Gardens Master
Revitalization Plan. (“The Pershing”, another development project which is near
completion, is the first off-site development for Stateway Gardens.) This first on-site
phase of development will be developed on the northern portion of the Stateway Gardens
site between 35th St. to the south alley of the new 36th St. and State St. west to the Metra
Track embankment. The Master Developer is Stateway Associates, LLC, a joint venture
between affiliates of Mesa Development LLC, Neighborhood Rejuvenation Partners, L.P.,
Walsh Construction Company of Illinois and Kimball Hill Development Company. Park
Boulevard-Phase IB is expected to be built in three (3) sub-phases and will provide 311
diverse housing opportunities, consisting of 211 for-sale units and 100 public housing
replacement units. There are 39 different buildings designed by seven different
architectural firms that create an aesthetically pleasing and diverse Chicago neighborhood.
The housing type mix includes mid-rise condominiums, townhomes, duplex-over-duplex,
flats and single-family homes all with 1:1 parking. All PHA units are evenly distributed
8

 within all building types and within the site (except for the twelve (12) single family
homes where the CHA-owned land will be conveyed in fee-simple to the developer per
sub-development phase via quitclaim deed with the appropriate recapture provisions).
There will also be a need to execute several different rental and for-sale ground leases
including one ground lease that incorporates ground level retail space along the 35th Street
frontage. The for-sale housing units will be financed through a conventional construction
loan. The public housing units will be financed by a combination of capital funds from
CHA and equity generated by syndication of low income housing tax credits (LIHTC) and
Illinois donation tax credits. Tax-exempt bonds will be used during the construction to
generate 4% LIHTC. Site and infrastructure improvements will be financed by Tax
Increment Financing (TIF) assistance. The project will be constructed in three (3) subphases and the transaction documents will include mechanisms that protect the interests of
HUD, CHA and the public housing residents. A percentage of the gross proceeds from
for-sale receipts (4% for condominium units and 7% for fee-simple single family homes)
will be deposited in an escrow controlled by the Regulatory and Operating Agreement that
will be used to supplement available public housing dollars and to be used to benefit the
residents of public housing units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-91
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 21,
2005, requesting authorization to: 1) submit a Mixed Finance Proposal to
HUD for the Stateway Gardens Phase IB redevelopment project (to be
known as Park Boulevard); 2) commit CHA’s capital contribution in an
amount up to $ 15 million to the Stateway Gardens Phase 1B
redevelopment project; and 3) execute all other documents including, but
not limited to, a quitclaim deed per sub-development phase for the CHAowned land to be conveyed in fee simple to the developer, rental and forsale ground leases, a regulatory and operating agreement providing
operating subsidy to the development for the operation of the public
housing units and various other financing documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and evidentiary documents
to HUD for the Stateway Gardens Phase 1B redevelopment project (to be
known as Park Boulevard); 2) commit CHA’s capital contribution in an
amount up to $ 15 million to the Stateway Gardens Phase 1B
redevelopment project; and 3) execute all other documents including, but
not limited to, a quitclaim deed per sub-development phase for the CHAowned land to be conveyed in fee simple to the developer, rental and forsale ground leases, a regulatory and operating agreement providing
operating subsidy to the development for the operation of the public
housing units and various other financing documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.

(Item B7)
The resolution for Item B7 approves execution of a contract for the redevelopment of
Cabrini-Green Extension North. The Cabrini-Green Consent Decree dated August 25,
2000 between CHA, The City of Chicago, and Cabrini Green Local Advisory Council calls
for the redevelopment of Cabrini Extension North in accordance with the following
percentages: 30% public housing, 20% affordable housing, and 50% market rate housing.
Consistent with the Consent Decree, the proposed Contract for Redevelopment of CabriniGreen Extension North calls for the development of a mixed-income community of
approximately 718 units, including 402 rental units and 316 homeownership units, to be
known as “Parkside of Old Town”. The Development Agreement provides that 215 units
be public housing, 144 units be affordable, and 359 units be market rate, also consistent
with the Consent Decree. The development of Parkside of Old Town will take place in
two phases. Phase I includes the development of 360 units of which approximately 100
units will be public housing units, 63 units will be affordable, and 197 units will be market
rate. The unit breakdown between homeownership and rental units is 187 and 173,
respectively. Phase II includes 358 units of which approximately 115 units will be public
housing, 81 units will be affordable, and 162 units will be market rate. The unit
9

 breakdown between homeownership and rental is 129 units and 229 units, respectively.
Under the proposed Development Agreement, Parkside Associates, LLC will be
responsible for assembling financing and managing the development, construction and
lease-up process. The CHA and Receiver are committing an amount not to exceed
$21,500,000 for activities under the Development Agreement, consisting of 1994 HOPE
VI Revitalization Grant funds, development funds and/or capital funds. The proposed
Development Agreement also provides that CHA and Receiver will offer predevelopment
loans to Parkside Associates, LLC in amounts not to exceed 75% of eligible third party
predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines and regulations
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-92
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated June 15,
2005 requesting authorization to enter into a Contract for Redevelopment of
Cabrini-Green Extension North and provide predevelopment loans with and
to Parkside Associates, LLC for the development of the Cabrini-Green
Extension North development site.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Contract for Redevelopment of Cabrini-Green
Extension North (substantially in the form attached) with the development
team of Parkside Associates, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company
comprised of Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation, Kimball Hill
Urban Centers Chicago One, LLC, and Cabrini Green LAC Community
Development Corporation for development of the Cabrini-Green Extension
North site, and provide predevelopment loans for up to 75% of eligible third
party predevelopment costs pursuant to the terms of the Development
Agreement and consistent with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development cost control guidelines and regulations

(Item B8)
Due to the initiation of retail electricity competition in Illinois, various electricity brokers
were able to enter into the electricity market and provide competitive rates for providing
electricity where ComEd formerly was the sole provider. In August 2003, the CHA
entered into Contract # 0456 with Constellation NewEnergy, Inc. to provide all of CHA’s
electricity requirements for a twenty-one (21) month period. During this time, CHA has
obtained all of its electricity supply requirements from Constellation NewEnergy through a
combination of fixed and variable rate plans for CHA facilities. The agreement that was
entered into in August 2003 did not specify rates for the contingent third year option.
Constellation NewEnergy recently proposed fixed pricing for the option year at a rate that
was higher on average than the original fixed pricing arrangements, due to historically
higher market prices for electricity. The prevailing market rates for electricity have
significantly increased during the time CHA rates and pricing terms were originally locked
in with Constellation NewEnergy. In order to adjust for the costs of future new accounts
and increased energy prices, it was determined that fifty-seven (57) accounts, comprised
of various small accounts and all of the CHA’s high-volume accounts, should return to
ComEd’s bundled rates and CHA be directly billed by ComEd. Accordingly, the
Resolution for Item B8 approves he first year option of contract with Constellation New
Energy and ratifies the transfer of 57 accounts to ComEd.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-93
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 15, 2005, entitled “Authorization To Exercise The
First Year Option Of Contract No. 0456 With Constellation New Energy
And To Ratify The Transfer Of 57 Accounts To ComEd For CHA’s
Electricity Requirements”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or his
10

 designee to exercise the first one-year option with Constellation NewEnergy
for twenty-four (24) designated electricity accounts, in an amount not-toexceed $600,000.00, and to ratify the transfer of fifty-seven (57) designated
accounts to Commonwealth Edison’s bundled rates.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B8 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee then presented the
monthly Committee report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee
meeting was held on Wednesday, June 15, 2005. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff
presented the committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of May 31, 2005.
Commissioner Nesbitt then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of the
resolutions for Item C1 thru C6, discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the
Finance & Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolutions for Items C1 approves the formation of Loomis Courts LLC and C/S
Loomis Limited Partnership and approves the documents and related actions needed to
close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Loomis Courts. Loomis Courts consists of
two family buildings located at 1314 and 1342 West 15th Street in Chicago, Illinois. The
buildings were constructed in 1951 and are seven-stories high with a full basement and
rooftop penthouse. Each building encompasses approximately 52,180 gross square feet.
Buildings 1314 and 1342 each contain 63 units for a total of one-hundred and twenty-six
(126) units. The proposed renovation of Loomis Courts will require extensive interior
demolition as all existing floor finishes, plumbing, mechanical, and electrical systems will
be replaced in their entirety. All potable water and sanitary sewer piping systems will be
replaced and will require the demolition of select plumbing wall partitions in every unit.
All bathroom and kitchen plumbing fixtures will be replaced during the renovation. To
make possible the closing of the Loomis Courts transaction, Loomis Courts LLC and C/S
Loomis Limited Partnership) have been formed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-94
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq.,
as amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Loomis Courts, a 126-unit housing
property (the “Property”), located at 1314-42 West 15th Street, in the City of Chicago (the
“City”); and
WHEREAS, the Property was originally acquired, constructed and equipped by the
Authority using a combination of state and local funds; and
WHEREAS, in 1979, the Authority entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(the “Original Section 8 Contract”) with the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) providing for the substantial rehabilitation of the Property
by the Authority and the payment of housing assistance payments by HUD to the
11

 Authority with respect to the Property for a period of 20 years; and
WHEREAS, upon expiration of the Original Section 8 Contract, the Authority and HUD
entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Basic Renewal Contract with respect to the
Property for the period October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2005 (the “Section 8 Renewal
Contract”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Section 8 Renewal
Contract, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair, resulting in the receipt from HUD of substandard physical
assessment scores with respect to the Property; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation
of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell
and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced
or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated
entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal lowincome housing tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Board Resolution 2005-CHA-24, (a) C/S Loomis Courts Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership has been formed to own and operate the
Property so as to be able to benefit from the availability of low-income housing tax credits
and FHA mortgage insurance, and (b) Loomis Court LLC, an Illinois limited liability
company, has been formed to serve as the general partner of that limited partnership; and
WHEREAS, FHA mortgage insurance requires that a separate special purpose borrowing
entity be established with respect to any FHA-insured mortgage loan; and
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all powers
necessary or appropriate in order to engage in the rehabilitation, development and
redevelopment of projects; and
WHEREAS, Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Act;
and
WHEREAS, Section 26 of the Act provides that it is the purpose and intent of the Act to
authorize the Authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure the
financial aid or cooperation of the Federal government in the purchasing, acquiring,
constructing, maintaining, operating, improving, extending and repairing of housing
projects; and
WHEREAS, as provided in Section 10/9 of the Act, the sale and transfer of the Property
has been approved in writing by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (formerly, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community Affairs);
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority:
PART I
Formation of LLC and LP
Section 1.01 Formation of LLC. The formation of Loomis Courts LLC, an Illinois
limited liability company (the “General Partner”), of which the Authority is the sole
member is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. The Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority (the “Designated Officers”) are hereby
authorized to take all actions necessary to maintain the status of the General Partner as a
limited liability company under the laws of the State of Illinois.
Section 1.02 Operating Agreement. The form of LLC Operating Agreement presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting.
Section 1.03 Formation of LP.
The formation of C/S Loomis Courts Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Owner”), is hereby ratified and confirmed
in all respects.
Section 1.04 Partnership Agreement. The original form of Partnership Agreement
presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “Partnership Agreement”)
is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting. An amended and restated
12

 partnership agreement, in the form approved by the Designated Officers, providing for the
replacement of the original limited partner with one or more investor limited partners, is
also hereby approved. The Chief Executive of the Authority is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Partnership Agreement on behalf of the General Partner.
Section 1.05 Development Agreement. The form of Development Agreement presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting. The Chief Executive of the Authority is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Development Agreement on behalf of the Owner as well as on
behalf of the General Partner (not as general partner of the Owner, but as an independent
contractor).
Section 1.06 No liability of the Authority. The debts, obligations and undertakings of the
General Partner and the Owner shall be payable and/or satisfied solely from the assets and
resources of the General Partner and the Owner, as applicable, and neither the Authority,
the State of Illinois, the City or any other political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall
be liable or responsible, directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such
debt, obligation or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or
agreement of any kind whatsoever of the General Partner or the Owner.
Section 1.07 No Recourse. No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of
any debt, obligation or undertaking of the General Partner or the Owner against any
commissioner, member, officer, employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present
or future, of the Authority, to the maximum extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of
any constitution, statute, ordinance or rule of law, or otherwise.
PART II
Approval of Purchase of Property
Section 2.01 Purchase of Property. The purchase of the Property by the Owner
for a purchase price of not less than $2,970,000 is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 2.02 Master Real Estate Sale Contract. The form of Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale Contract”) presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit D is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, and the General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to
execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by
the officer of the Authority executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive
evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 2.03 Acceptance of Assignment of Section 8 Contract. The form of Assignment
of Section 8 Contract with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit E is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to execute and accept delivery of the
Assignment of Section 8 Contract in substantially the form presented to this meeting,
together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the person executing the
same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of
such changes and revisions. The General Partner of the owner is authorized to renew the
Section 8 Contract as authorized by HUD.
Section 2.04 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement. The form of Right of First
Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit F is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to execute and deliver the Right of
First Refusal Agreement in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the person executing the same, their
approval to constitute evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
PART III
Additional Approvals
Section 3.01 Development and Management of Property. The development and
management of the Property by the Owner is hereby approved. In order to accomplish
those purposes, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate instruments and
documents, including but not limited to, the construction contract, architect’s agreement
and appropriate management agreement. FHP Tectonics Corporation is hereby approved
to act as general contractor. Urban Property Associates is hereby approved to act as
property manager.
Section 3.02 Loan Transactions. In order to finance the costs of rehabilitating and
equipping the Property, the loan transactions described on Exhibit G attached hereto are
hereby approved.
13

 Section 3.03 Approval of Loan Documentation. In order to evidence and secure the loan
transactions described on Exhibit G, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate
documents, instruments, mortgages and security instruments as may be required by the
applicable lender subject to the limitations set forth in Exhibit G.
Section 3.04 Tax-exempt Financing. It is recognized that the FHA-insured Mortgage
Loan and the Bank of America Bridge Loan will be funded by CHA bonds and a CHA
note, the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation under Section 142 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Owner shall execute and deliver
such documents and instruments as shall be required to support the tax-exempt status of
such CHA obligations.
PART IV
Miscellaneous
Section 4.01 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse
shall be had upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Resolution contained
against any past, present or future commissioner, officer, director, member, employee or
agent of the Authority, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or
through the Authority or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity,
statute, ordinance or constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, and all such liability of any such commissioners, officers, directors, members,
employees or agents as such is expressly waived and released by this Resolution as a
condition of and consideration for the passage of this Resolution.
Section 4.02 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do
any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority
under and pursuant to this Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever
nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution,
including, but not limited to, the exercise of any power or authority delegated to such
official of the Authority under this Resolution, but subject to any limitations on or
restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other officers, agents and employees of the
Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on behalf of the
Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other instruments
that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence
said authority.
Section 4.03 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 4.04 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings
of the Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall
supersede any conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency.
Section 4.05 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.
EXHIBIT G
Schedule of Loan Transactions
Lien
Maximum
Maximum
Maximum
Loan
Source
Status
Amount
Term
Interest Rate
FHA-Insured
First Mortgage
$6,199,820
45 years
7%
Loan
Bank of
Second
$1,999,830
5 years
Statutory
America Bridge Mortgage
Maximum
Loan
CHA Seller
Third Mortgage
$3,630,000
45 years
AFR
Financing
CHA Loan
Fourth
$5,411,530
45 years
0%
Mortgage
CHA/DCEO
Fifth Mortgage
$2,000,000
45 years
0%
Loan

14

 (Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves the Financing Plan and Related Financing Documents
needed to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Loomis Courts. To facilitate the
renovation of Loomis Courts, a multi-tiered financing approach will be utilized. The CHA
will sell the Loomis Courts property to the tax-credit limited partnership (the “Owner”),
and assign to Owner the related Housing Assistance Payments contract and certain other
contracts related to the transaction. CHA will finance the purchase price through seller
financing. CHA will issue tax-exempt bonds and a tax-exempt note. A portion of the
bonds will be collateralized with CHA funds, and interest earned on such funds will also
be made available to the project. CHA will also lend funds from its insurance reserve and
from its DCEO grant (or an alternative source(s)). Other sources in this financing plan
include tax credit equity and deferred developer fee.
FINANCING RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-95
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq.,
as amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Loomis Courts, a 126-unit housing
property (the “Property”), located at 1314-42 West 15th Street, in the City of Chicago (the
“City”); and
WHEREAS, the Property was originally acquired, constructed and equipped by the
Authority using a combination of state and local funds; and
WHEREAS, in 1979, the Authority entered into an Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(the “Original Section 8 Contract”) with the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) providing for the substantial rehabilitation of the Property
by the Authority and the payment of housing assistance payments by HUD to the
Authority with respect to the Property for a period of 20 years; and
WHEREAS, upon expiration of the Original Section 8 Contract, the Authority and HUD
entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Basic Renewal Contract with respect to the
Property for the period October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2005 (the “Section 8 Renewal
Contract”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Section 8 Renewal
Contract, adequate funds have not been not available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair, resulting in the receipt from HUD of substandard physical
assessment scores with respect to the Property; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation
of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell
and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced
or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated
entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal lowincome housing tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, C/S Loomis Courts Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Owner”), has been formed to own and operate the Property so as to be able to benefit
from the availability of low-income housing tax credits and FHA mortgage insurance; and
WHEREAS, Loomis Courts LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the “General
Partner”) has been formed to serve as the general partner of the Owner; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Property constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and the financing thereof will
meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Local Government Debt Reform
Act, 30 ILCS 305/1 et seq. (the “Debt Reform Act”), the Authority is authorized to issue
its notes and bonds for the purposes provided herein; and
15

 WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys to the Owner as described in Part I
below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys derived from the Illinois Department
of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (“DCEO”) as described in Part II below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the Property to Owner and make a loan to the Owner to
finance a portion of the purchase price of the Property, as described in Part III below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will issue the Bonds and the Note as described in Part II below;
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority:
PART I
Approval of Sale of Property and CHA Financing to Owner
Section 1.01 Sale and Transfer of Property.
The sale and transfer of the
Property to the Owner for a purchase price of not less than $2,970,000 is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 1.02 Master Real Estate Sale Contract.
The form of Master Real
Estate Sale Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale
Contract”) presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in
substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the Designated Officers of the
Authority are authorized to execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement on
behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officer of the Authority executing
the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of
such changes and revisions.
Section 1.03 Assignment of Section 8 Contract. The form of Assignment of
Section 8 Contract with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit B is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
Designated Officers of the Authority are authorized to execute and deliver the Assignment
of Section 8 Contract on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officer of
the Authority executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of
this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions. The Designated Officers are
authorized to renew the Section 8 Contract as authorized by HUD.
Section 1.04 Approval of CHA Seller Financing Loan. As provided in the Master
Real Estate Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A, the Authority shall provide seller
financing to the Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to pay the purchase price
of the Property to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in
an amount not to exceed $3,630,000 and bearing interest at the Applicable Federal Rate (as
defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) for a term not to exceed 45 years. To
secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner shall execute and deliver a
subordinate mortgage on the Property.
Section 1.05 Approval of CHA Loan. The Authority shall make a loan to the
Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay the loan to the Authority, the
Owner shall execute and deliver one or more promissory notes, in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $5,411,530 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a term not to
exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner shall
execute and deliver one or more subordinate mortgages on the Property and other security
documents. The aggregate amount of such loan for this and the other two City/State
projects that will be funded from insurance fund moneys shall not exceed $10,000,000.
Section 1.06 Approval of CHA Loan of DCEO Moneys. The Authority may, if so
determined by the Chief Executive Officer, make a loan to the Owner out of or otherwise
apply money it receives from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (“DCEO”). To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay any such loan
to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in an amount not
to exceed $2,000,000 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a term not to
exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under any such note, the Owner
shall execute and deliver a subordinate mortgage on the Property and other security
documents.
PART II
Approval of Bond and Note Financing
Section 2.01 Forms of Bond Documents. There have been presented to this Board
forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Bond
Documents”):

16

 Exhibit
C

Document
Trust Indenture

D

Financing Agreement

E

Escrow Agreement

F

Regulatory Agreement and
Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants
Bonds Tax Agreement

G

Other Party
JP Morgan Trust
Company, National
Association, as
Trustee
Owner, Trustee and
Lender
Trustee, Escrow
Agent and Owner
Trustee and Owner

Owner

Section 2.02 Forms of Note Documents. There have also been presented to this Board
forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Note
Documents”):
Exhibit
H

Document
Note Issuance Agreement

I
J

Loan Agreement
Note

K

Assignment and Security
Agreement
Note Tax Agreement

L

Other Party
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder and Fiscal Agent
Owner
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder
Owner

Section 2.03 Appointment of Fiscal Agent. Bank of America N.A. is hereby appointed as
Fiscal Agent under the Note Issuance Agreement.
Section 2.04 Authorization of Bonds. For the purpose of providing funds to pay, or to
reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation of the
Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of not to exceed $10,535,000
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be dated, shall mature on such
dates (not beyond January 1, 2050) shall be in such principal amounts, shall bear interest at
such rate or rates, not to exceed 10 percent per annum, shall be payable on such dates, all
as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, at the time
of the execution and delivery of the Bond Purchase Agreement (as hereinafter described).
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions
set forth in the Indenture as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.05 Source of Payment of Bonds. The Bonds, together with interest thereon
shall be secured by the GNMA Securities (as defined in the Indenture) and the CHA Funds
(as defined in the Escrow Agreement) and shall be payable solely from the revenues and
receipts derived from the GNMA Securities and the CHA Funds as provided in the
Indenture and the Escrow Agreement (except to the extent paid out of moneys attributable
to the Bond proceeds and other funds established under the Indenture or the income from
the temporary investment thereof), and shall be a valid claim of the owners thereof only
against the funds and other moneys held by the Trustee and the revenues and receipts
derived from the GNMA Securities under the Indenture and the CHA Funds under the
Escrow Agreement.
Section 2.06 Limited Obligations of the Authority. The Bonds and the interest thereon
are limited, not general, obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the Trust Estate
under the Indenture. The Bonds are not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or
county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority,
and no city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall
the Bonds be payable by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than those of
the Authority pledged pursuant to the Indenture. The Bonds do not constitute an
indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or
restriction. Neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the United States of
America, the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois or any other political subdivision
thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the
17

 Bonds or other costs incident thereto. The Bonds are not a debt of the United States of
America or any agency thereof, and are not guaranteed by the United States of America or
any agency thereof.
Section 2.07 Execution and Delivery of Bonds. The Bonds shall be executed on behalf
of the Authority in the manner provided in the Indenture. If any of the officers who shall
have signed or sealed any of said Bonds shall cease to be such officers of the Authority
before the Bonds so signed and sealed shall have been actually authenticated by the
Trustee or delivered by the Authority, such Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated,
issued and delivered with the same force and effect as though the person or persons who
signed or sealed such Bonds had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority;
and also any such Bonds may be signed and sealed on behalf of the Authority by those
persons who, at the actual date of the execution of such Bonds, shall be the officers of the
Authority so designated in the Indenture, although at the nominal date of such Bonds any
such person shall not have been such officer of the Authority.
Section 2.08 Approval of Bond Documents. The forms of the Bond Documents
presented to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute
and deliver the Bond Documents with such changes, insertions and completions therein as
shall be approved by such persons executing such documents (subject to the limitations set
forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of
such changes, insertions and completions, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is
hereby authorized and directed to affix to the Bond Documents the corporate seal of the
Authority. Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such instruments,
agreements and documents as may be required by HUD or FHA in connection with the
Mortgage Loan (as defined in the Indenture) or the GNMA Securities.
Section 2.09 Sale of Bonds. (a) The Bonds shall be sold and delivered to, or upon the
direction of, one or more underwriters (the “Underwriters”) selected by the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, subject to the terms and conditions of a bond
purchase agreement related to the Bonds (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”). The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute and deliver on behalf
of the Authority the Bond Purchase Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit M, with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the Bonds, and
with such other revisions in text as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds. The
execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer shall be deemed conclusive evidence of the approval of this Board of the
terms provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement. The compensation paid to the
Underwriters in connection with the sale of the Bonds shall not exceed 3 percent of their
aggregate principal amount. In connection with the offer and delivery of the Bonds, the
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers of the Authority
as may be necessary, are authorized to execute and deliver such instruments and
documents as may be necessary to implement the transaction and to effect the issuance and
delivery of the Bonds. Any limitation on the amount of Bonds issued pursuant to this
Resolution as set forth herein shall be exclusive of any original issue discount or premium.
(b)
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to
cause to be prepared the form of Preliminary Official Statement describing the Bonds. The
Preliminary Official Statement shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
N, together with such changes thereto and modifications thereof as shall be approved by
the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer. The distribution of the Preliminary
Official Statement to prospective purchasers and the use thereof by the Underwriters in
connection with the offering of the Bonds are hereby authorized and approved. The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to permit the distribution
of a final Official Statement, in substantially the form of the Preliminary Official
Statement, with such changes, omissions, insertions and revisions thereto and completions
thereof as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall deem advisable.
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and
deliver the final Official Statement to the Underwriters in the name and on behalf of the
Authority, the execution of such final Official Statement to constitute conclusive evidence
of the approval of such officer of such changes and completions.
(c)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection
18

 with the sale of the Bonds a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to
the authority granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
proper exercise by her of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such
certificate, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the
Secretary one copy of the final Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement in
connection with the Bonds. Each filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to
the execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such
filings to this Board.
Section 2.10 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Bonds shall not be
issued unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including
particularly the approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been
fully satisfied, and that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Bonds shall be
executed or undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f)
unless the performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly
conditioned upon the prior satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior
to the enactment of this Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Section 2.11 Authorization of Note. For the purpose of providing funds to pay, or to
reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation of the
Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of the Note, which shall be in a
principal amount not to exceed $1,999,830. The Note shall be dated, shall mature on such
date (not beyond January 1, 2010) and in such principal amount, and shall bear interest,
except as set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, at an interest rate of not to exceed the
Maximum Rate (as defined in the Note Issuance Agreement), and shall be payable on such
date, all as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer at
the time of the execution and delivery of the Note Issuance Agreement. The Note shall be
subject to redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Note
Issuance Agreement as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.12 Source of Payment of Note. The Note, together with interest thereon, shall
be secured and payable solely as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement, and shall be a
valid claim of the owner thereof only against the funds and other moneys held under or
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement and the other mortgage, pledge and security
documents executed and delivered in connection with the Note.
Section 2.13 Limited Obligations of Authority. The Note and the interest thereon is a
limited, not general, obligation of the Authority, payable solely from revenues, receipts
and security pledged therefore in the Note Issuance Agreement and the other mortgage,
pledge and security documents executed and delivered in connection with the Note. The
Note is not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois
or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority, and no city, village,
incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof
other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Note be payable
by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than those of the Authority pledged
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement. The Note does not constitute an indebtedness
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction. Neither
the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois nor any other political subdivision thereof shall
be obligated to pay the principal amount of, premium, if any, or interest on the Note or
other costs incident thereto except from the payments pledged with respect thereto and
certain reserve funds established in connection therewith. Neither the faith and credit nor
the taxing power of the United States of America, the Authority, the City, the State of
Illinois or any other political subdivision thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal
of, premium, if any, or interest on the Note or other costs incident thereto. The Note is not
a debt of the United States of America or any agency thereof, and is not guaranteed by the
United States of America or any agency thereof.
Section 2.14 Execution and Delivery of Note. The Note shall be executed on behalf of
the Authority in the manner provided in the Note Issuance Agreement. If any of the
officers who shall have signed or sealed the Note shall cease to be such officers of the
Authority before the Note so signed and sealed shall have been actually delivered by the
Authority, the Note nevertheless may be authenticated, issued and delivered with the same
force and effect as though the person or persons who signed or sealed the Note had not
ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority; and the Note may be signed and
sealed on behalf of the Authority by those persons who, at the actual date of the execution
of the Note, shall be the officers of the Authority designated in the Note Issuance
Agreement, although at the nominal date of the Note any such person shall not have been
such officer of the Authority.
19

 Section 2.15 Approval of Note Documents. The forms of the Note Documents presented
to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute,
acknowledge and deliver the Note Documents, with such changes, insertions and
completions therein as shall be approved by such persons executing such documents
(subject to the limitations set forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such approval, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is hereby
authorized and directed to affix to the Note Documents the corporate seal of the Authority.
Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such instruments, agreements
and documents as may be required by the holder of the Note.
Section 2.16 Sale of Note. (a) The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is
hereby authorized to sell the Note to Bank of America, N.A., or its designee, as
contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement presented to this meeting at a purchase
price of 100 percent of the principal amount thereof less an origination fee not to exceed
3% of the principal amount of the Note.
(b)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection
with the sale of the Note a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to the
authority granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
proper exercise by her of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such
certificate, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the
Secretary one copy of the Note Issuance Agreement as executed and delivered by the
Authority. Such filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to the execution of
the Note Issuance Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such filings to this
Board.
Section 2.17 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Note shall not be issued
unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including particularly the
approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been fully satisfied, and
that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Note shall be executed or
undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f) unless the
performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly conditioned upon the
prior satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior to the enactment of
this Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
PART III
Miscellaneous
Section 3.01 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement.
The form of Right of
First Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and
attached hereto as Exhibit O is approved in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, and the officers of the Authority designated in the Right of First Refusal
Agreement are authorized to execute and deliver the Right of First Refusal Agreement on
behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officers of the Authority executing
the same, their approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such
changes and revisions.
Section 3.02 Modification of Grant Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer or the
Chief Financial Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into one or more
amendments to the Grant Agreement to reflect the ownership of the Property and the use of
the proceeds of the Grant to assist in the rehabilitation of the Property.
Section 3.03 Investment Agreements. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized and directed to execute investment
agreements covering all or a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds and other amounts held
under the Indenture. Any such agreement shall constitute a permitted investment under
Illinois law.
Section 3.04 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse
shall be had for the payment of principal of or interest on any of the Bonds or the Note, or
for any claim based on the Bonds or Note, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement
in this Resolution contained against any past, present or future commissioner, officer,
director, member, employee or agent of the Authority, or of any successor public
corporation, as such, either directly or through the Authority or any successor public
corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute, ordinance or constitution or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such
20

 commissioners, officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is expressly
waived and released by this Resolution as a condition of and consideration for the passage
of this Resolution and the issuance of such Bonds and Note.
Section 3.05 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do
any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority
under and pursuant to this Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever
nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution,
including, but not limited to, the exercise following the delivery date of any of the Bonds
or the Note of any power or authority delegated to such official of the Authority under this
Resolution with respect to the Bonds or the Note upon the initial issuance thereof, but
subject to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor
to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other
officers, agents and employees of the Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered
and directed for and on behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers,
documents, certificates and other instruments that may be required to carry out the
authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence said authority.
Section 3.06 Allocation of Volume Cap. In accordance with the provisions of
Section 146 of the Code, the Authority shall accept an allocation of volume cap from the
City to the issuance of the Bonds and the Note. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental
agreement with the City relating to volume cap.
Section 3.07 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 3.08 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings
of the Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall
supersede any conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency.
Section 3.09 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.
(Item C3)
The resolutions for Items C3 approves the formation of Harrison Courts LLC and C/S
Harrison Limited Partnership and approves the documents and related actions needed to
close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Harrison Courts. Harrison Courts consists of
three apartment buildings located at 2910, 2030 and 2950 W. Harrison Street in Chicago,
Illinois. The buildings were constructed in 1950 and are seven-stories high. Each building
encompasses approximately 30,730 gross square feet and currently contains forty-two (42)
apartments for a total of one-hundred and twenty-six (126) units. The proposed renovation
of Harrison Courts is similar to Loomis Courts.
PROJECT RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-96
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq.,
as amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Harrison Courts, a 104-unit
housing property (the “Property”), located at 910 – 30 - 50 West Harrison, in the City of
Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, the Property was originally acquired, constructed and equipped by the
Authority using a combination of state and local funds; and
WHEREAS, in 1979, the Authority entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(the “Original Section 8 Contract”) with the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) providing for the substantial rehabilitation of the Property
by the Authority and the payment of housing assistance payments by HUD to the
Authority with respect to the Property for a period of 20 years; and
WHEREAS, upon expiration of the Original Section 8 Contract, the Authority and HUD
entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Basic Renewal Contract with respect to the
21

 Property for the period October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2005 (the “Section 8 Renewal
Contract”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Section 8 Renewal
Contract, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair, resulting in the receipt from HUD of substandard physical
assessment scores with respect to the Property; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation
of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell
and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced
or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated
entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal lowincome housing tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Board Resolution 2005-CHA-24, (a) C/S Harrison Courts Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership, has been formed to own and operate the
Property so as to be able to benefit from the availability of low-income housing tax credits
and FHA mortgage insurance, and (b) Harrison Courts LLC, an Illinois limited liability
company, has been formed to serve as the general partner of that limited partnership; and
WHEREAS, FHA mortgage insurance requires that a separate special purpose borrowing
entity be established with respect to any FHA-insured mortgage loan; and
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all powers
necessary or appropriate in order to engage in the rehabilitation, development and
redevelopment of projects; and
WHEREAS, Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Act;
and
WHEREAS, Section 26 of the Act provides that it is the purpose and intent of the Act to
authorize the Authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure the
financial aid or cooperation of the Federal government in the purchasing, acquiring,
constructing, maintaining, operating, improving, extending and repairing of housing
projects; and
WHEREAS, as provided in Section 10/9 of the Act, the sale and transfer of the Property
has been approved in writing by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (formerly, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community Affairs);
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority:
PART I
Formation of LLC and LP
Section 1.01 Formation of LLC. The formation of Harrison Courts LLC, an Illinois
limited liability company (the “General Partner”), of which the Authority is the sole
member is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. The Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority (the “Designated Officers”) are hereby
authorized to take all actions necessary to maintain the status of the General Partner as a
limited liability company under the laws of the State of Illinois.
Section 1.02 Operating Agreement. The form of LLC Operating Agreement presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting.
Section 1.03 Formation of LP.
The formation of C/S Harrison Courts Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Owner”), is hereby ratified and confirmed
in all respects.
Section 1.04 Partnership Agreement. The original form of Partnership Agreement
presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “Partnership Agreement”)
is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting. An amended and restated
partnership agreement, in the form approved by the Designated Officers, providing for the
replacement of the original limited partner with one or more investor limited partners, is
also hereby approved. The Chief Executive of the Authority is hereby authorized to
22

 execute and deliver the Partnership Agreement on behalf of the General Partner.
Section 1.05 Development Agreement. The form of Development Agreement presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting. The Chief Executive of the Authority is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Development Agreement on behalf of the Owner as well as on
behalf of the General Partner (not as general partner of the Owner, but as an independent
contractor).
Section 1.06 No liability of the Authority. The debts, obligations and undertakings of the
General Partner and the Owner shall be payable and/or satisfied solely from the assets and
resources of the General Partner and the Owner, as applicable, and neither the Authority,
the State of Illinois, the City or any other political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall
be liable or responsible, directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such
debt, obligation or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or
agreement of any kind whatsoever of the General Partner or the Owner.
Section 1.07 No Recourse. No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of
any debt, obligation or undertaking of the General Partner or the Owner against any
commissioner, member, officer, employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present
or future, of the Authority, to the maximum extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of
any constitution, statute, ordinance or rule of law, or otherwise.
PART II
Approval of Purchase of Property
Section 2.01 Purchase of Property. The purchase of the Property by the Owner
for a purchase price of not less than $4,230,000 is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 2.02 Master Real Estate Sale Contract. The form of Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale Contract”) presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit D is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, and the General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to
execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by
the officer of the Authority executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive
evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 2.03 Acceptance of Assignment of Section 8 Contract. The form of Assignment
of Section 8 Contract with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit E is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to execute and accept delivery of the
Assignment of Section 8 Contract in substantially the form presented to this meeting,
together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the person executing the
same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of
such changes and revisions. The General Partner of the Owner is authorized to renew the
Section 8 Contract as authorized by HUD.
Section 2.04 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement. The form of Right of First
Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit F is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to execute and deliver the Right of
First Refusal Agreement in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the person executing the same, their
approval to constitute evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
PART III
Additional Approvals
Section 3.01 Development and Management of Property. The development and
management of the Property by the Owner is hereby approved. In order to accomplish
those purposes, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate instruments and
documents, including but not limited to, the construction contract, architect’s agreement
and appropriate management agreement. FHP Tectonics Corporation is hereby approved
to act as general contractor. East Lake Management Group Inc. is hereby approved to act
as property manager.
Section 3.02 Loan Transactions. In order to finance the costs of rehabilitating and
equipping the Property, the loan transactions described on Exhibit G attached hereto are
hereby approved.
Section 3.03 Approval of Loan Documentation. In order to evidence and secure the loan
transactions described on Exhibit G, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate
documents, instruments, mortgages and security instruments as may be required by the
23

 applicable lender subject to the limitations set forth in Exhibit G.
Section 3.04 Tax-exempt Financing. It is recognized that the FHA-insured Mortgage
Loan and the Bank of America Bridge Loan will be funded by CHA bonds and a CHA
note, the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation under Section 142 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Owner shall execute and deliver
such documents and instruments as shall be required to support the tax-exempt status of
such CHA obligations.
PART IV
Miscellaneous
Section 4.01 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse
shall be had upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Resolution contained
against any past, present or future commissioner, officer, director, member, employee or
agent of the Authority, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or
through the Authority or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity,
statute, ordinance or constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, and all such liability of any such commissioners, officers, directors, members,
employees or agents as such is expressly waived and released by this Resolution as a
condition of and consideration for the passage of this Resolution.
Section 4.02 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do
any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority
under and pursuant to this Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever
nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution,
including, but not limited to, the exercise of any power or authority delegated to such
official of the Authority under this Resolution, but subject to any limitations on or
restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other officers, agents and employees of the
Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on behalf of the
Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other instruments
that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence
said authority.
Section 4.03 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 4.04 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings
of the Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall
supersede any conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency.
Section 4.05 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.

Loan
Source
FHA-Insured
Loan
Bank of
America Bridge
Loan
CHA Seller
Financing
CHA Loan
CHA/DCEO
Loan

EXHIBIT G
Schedule of Loan Transactions
Lien
Maximum
Maximum
Status
Amount
Term
First Mortgage
$4,030,180
45 years

Maximum
Interest Rate
7%

Second
Mortgage

$5,893,665

5 years

Statutory
Maximum

Third Mortgage

$5,170,000

45 years

AFR

Fourth
Mortgage
Fifth Mortgage

$5,570,690

45 years

0%

$2,000,000

45 years

0%

24

 (Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves the Financing Plan and Related Financing Documents
needed to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Harrison Courts. To facilitate the
renovation of Harrison Courts, a multi-tiered financing approach will be utilized similar to
the approach used for Loomis Courts.
FINANCING RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-97
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq.,
as amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Harrison Courts, a 104-unit
housing property (the “Property”), located at 910 – 30 - 50 W. Harrison, in the City of
Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, the Property was originally acquired, constructed and equipped by the
Authority using a combination of state and local funds; and
WHEREAS, in 1979, the Authority entered into an Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(the “Original Section 8 Contract”) with the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) providing for the substantial rehabilitation of the Property
by the Authority and the payment of housing assistance payments by HUD to the
Authority with respect to the Property for a period of 20 years; and
WHEREAS, upon expiration of the Original Section 8 Contract, the Authority and HUD
entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Basic Renewal Contract with respect to the
Property for the period October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2005 (the “Section 8 Renewal
Contract”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Section 8 Renewal
Contract, adequate funds have not been not available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair, resulting in the receipt from HUD of substandard physical
assessment scores with respect to the Property; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation
of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell
and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced
or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated
entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal lowincome housing tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, C/S Harrison Courts Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Owner”), has been formed to own and operate the Property so as to be able to benefit
from the availability of low-income housing tax credits and FHA mortgage insurance; and
WHEREAS, Harrison Courts LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the “General
Partner”) has been formed to serve as the general partner of the Owner; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Property constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and the financing thereof will
meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Local Government Debt Reform
Act, 30 ILCS 305/1 et seq. (the “Debt Reform Act”), the Authority is authorized to issue
its notes and bonds for the purposes provided herein; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys to the Owner as described in Part I
below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys derived from the Illinois Department
of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (“DCEO”) as described in Part II below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the Property to Owner and make a loan to the Owner to
finance a portion of the purchase price of the Property, as described in Part III below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will issue the Bonds and the Note as described in Part II below;
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority:
25

 PART I
Approval of Sale of Property and CHA Financing to Owner
Section 1.01 Section 1.01 Sale and Transfer of Property. The sale and transfer
of the Property to the Owner for a purchase price of not less than $4,230,000 is hereby
approved in all respects.
Section 1.02 Master Real Estate Sale Contract. The form of Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale Contract”) presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, and the Designated Officers of the Authority are authorized to
execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement on behalf of the Authority in
substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with such changes and revisions
as shall be approved by the officer of the Authority executing the same, his or her approval
to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 1.03 Assignment of Section 8 Contract. The form of Assignment of Section 8
Contract with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached hereto as
Exhibit B is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
Designated Officers of the Authority are authorized to execute and deliver the Assignment
of Section 8 Contract on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officer of
the Authority executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of
this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions. The Designated Officers are
authorized to renew the Section 8 Contract as authorized by HUD.
Section 1.04 Approval of CHA Seller Financing Loan. As provided in the Master Real
Estate Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A, the Authority shall provide seller
financing to the Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to pay the purchase price
of the Property to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in
an amount not to exceed $5,170,000 and bearing interest at the Applicable Federal Rate (as
defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) for a term not to exceed 45 years. To
secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner shall execute and deliver a
subordinate mortgage on the Property.
Section 1.05 Approval of CHA Loan. The Authority shall make a loan to the
Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay the loan to the Authority, the
Owner shall execute and deliver one or more promissory notes, in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $5,570,690 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a term not to
exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner shall
execute and deliver one or more subordinate mortgages on the Property and other security
documents. The aggregate amount of such loan for this and the other two City/State
projects that will be funded from insurance fund moneys shall not exceed $10,000,000.
Section 1.06 Approval of CHA Loan of DCEO Moneys. The Authority may, if so
determined by the Chief Executive Officer, make a loan to the Owner out of or otherwise
apply money it receives from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (“DCEO”). To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay any such loan
to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in an amount not
to exceed $2,000,000 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a term not to
exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under any such note, the Owner
shall execute and deliver a subordinate mortgage on the Property and other security
documents.
PART II
Approval of Bond and Note Financing
Section 2.01 Forms of Bond Documents. There have been presented to this Board
forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Bond
Documents”):
Exhibit
C

Document
Trust Indenture

D

Financing Agreement

E

Escrow Agreement

26

Other Party
JP Morgan Trust
Company, National
Association, as
Trustee
Owner, Trustee and
Lender
Trustee, Escrow
Agent and Owner

 F

G

Regulatory Agreement and
Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants
Bonds Tax Agreement

Trustee and Owner

Owner

Section 2.02 Forms of Note Documents. There have also been presented to this Board
forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Note
Documents”):
Exhibit
H

Document
Note Issuance Agreement

I
J

Loan Agreement
Note

K

Assignment and Security
Agreement
Note Tax Agreement

L

Other Party
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder and Fiscal Agent
Owner
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder
Owner

Section 2.03 Appointment of Fiscal Agent. Bank of America N.A. is hereby appointed as
Fiscal Agent under the Note Issuance Agreement.
Section 2.04 Authorization of Bonds. For the purpose of providing funds to pay, or to
reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation of the
Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of not to exceed $7,540,000
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be dated, shall mature on such
dates (not beyond January 1, 2050) shall be in such principal amounts, shall bear interest at
such rate or rates, not to exceed 10 percent per annum, shall be payable on such dates, all
as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, at the time
of the execution and delivery of the Bond Purchase Agreement (as hereinafter described).
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions
set forth in the Indenture as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.05 Source of Payment of Bonds. The Bonds, together with interest thereon
shall be secured by the GNMA Securities (as defined in the Indenture) and the CHA Funds
(as defined in the Escrow Agreement) and shall be payable solely from the revenues and
receipts derived from the GNMA Securities and the CHA Funds as provided in the
Indenture and the Escrow Agreement (except to the extent paid out of moneys attributable
to the Bond proceeds and other funds established under the Indenture or the income from
the temporary investment thereof), and shall be a valid claim of the owners thereof only
against the funds and other moneys held by the Trustee and the revenues and receipts
derived from the GNMA Securities under the Indenture and the CHA Funds under the
Escrow Agreement.
Section 2.06 Limited Obligations of the Authority. The Bonds and the interest thereon
are limited, not general, obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the Trust Estate
under the Indenture. The Bonds are not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or
county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority,
and no city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall
the Bonds be payable by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than those of
the Authority pledged pursuant to the Indenture. The Bonds do not constitute an
indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or
restriction. Neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the United States of
America, the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois or any other political subdivision
thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the
Bonds or other costs incident thereto. The Bonds are not a debt of the United States of
America or any agency thereof, and are not guaranteed by the United States of America or
any agency thereof.
Section 2.07 Execution and Delivery of Bonds. The Bonds shall be executed on behalf
of the Authority in the manner provided in the Indenture. If any of the officers who shall
have signed or sealed any of said Bonds shall cease to be such officers of the Authority
before the Bonds so signed and sealed shall have been actually authenticated by the
Trustee or delivered by the Authority, such Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated,
issued and delivered with the same force and effect as though the person or persons who

27

 signed or sealed such Bonds had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority;
and also any such Bonds may be signed and sealed on behalf of the Authority by those
persons who, at the actual date of the execution of such Bonds, shall be the officers of the
Authority so designated in the Indenture, although at the nominal date of such Bonds any
such person shall not have been such officer of the Authority.
Section 2.08 Approval of Bond Documents. The forms of the Bond Documents
presented to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute
and deliver the Bond Documents with such changes, insertions and completions therein as
shall be approved by such persons executing such documents (subject to the limitations set
forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of
such changes, insertions and completions, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is
hereby authorized and directed to affix to the Bond Documents the corporate seal of the
Authority. Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such instruments,
agreements and documents as may be required by HUD or FHA in connection with the
Mortgage Loan (as defined in the Indenture) or the GNMA Securities.
Section 2.09 Sale of Bonds. (a) The Bonds shall be sold and delivered to, or upon the
direction of, one or more underwriters (the “Underwriters”) selected by the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, subject to the terms and conditions of a bond
purchase agreement related to the Bonds (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”). The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute and deliver on behalf
of the Authority the Bond Purchase Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit M, with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the Bonds, and
with such other revisions in text as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds. The
execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer shall be deemed conclusive evidence of the approval of this Board of the
terms provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement. The compensation paid to the
Underwriters in connection with the sale of the Bonds shall not exceed 3 percent of their
aggregate principal amount. In connection with the offer and delivery of the Bonds, the
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers of the Authority
as may be necessary, are authorized to execute and deliver such instruments and
documents as may be necessary to implement the transaction and to effect the issuance and
delivery of the Bonds. Any limitation on the amount of Bonds issued pursuant to this
Resolution as set forth herein shall be exclusive of any original issue discount or premium.
(b)
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to
cause to be prepared the form of Preliminary Official Statement describing the Bonds. The
Preliminary Official Statement shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
N, together with such changes thereto and modifications thereof as shall be approved by
the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer. The distribution of the Preliminary
Official Statement to prospective purchasers and the use thereof by the Underwriters in
connection with the offering of the Bonds are hereby authorized and approved. The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to permit the distribution
of a final Official Statement, in substantially the form of the Preliminary Official
Statement, with such changes, omissions, insertions and revisions thereto and completions
thereof as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall deem advisable.
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and
deliver the final Official Statement to the Underwriters in the name and on behalf of the
Authority, the execution of such final Official Statement to constitute conclusive evidence
of the approval of such officer of such changes and completions.
(c)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection
with the sale of the Bonds a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to
the authority granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
proper exercise by her of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such
certificate, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the
Secretary one copy of the final Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement in
connection with the Bonds. Each filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to
the execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such
filings to this Board.
Section 2.10 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Bonds shall not be
28

 issued unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including
particularly the approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been
fully satisfied, and that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Bonds shall be
executed or undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f)
unless the performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly
conditioned upon the prior satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior
to the enactment of this Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Section 2.11 Authorization of Note. For the purpose of providing funds to pay, or to
reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation of the
Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of the Note, which shall be in a
principal amount not to exceed $5,893,665. The Note shall be dated, shall mature on such
date (not beyond January 1, 2010) and in such principal amount, and shall bear interest,
except as set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, at an interest rate of not to exceed the
Maximum Rate (as defined in the Note Issuance Agreement), and shall be payable on such
date, all as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer at
the time of the execution and delivery of the Note Issuance Agreement. The Note shall be
subject to redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Note
Issuance Agreement as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.12 Source of Payment of Note. The Note, together with interest thereon, shall
be secured and payable solely as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement, and shall be a
valid claim of the owner thereof only against the funds and other moneys held under or
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement and the other mortgage, pledge and security
documents executed and delivered in connection with the Note.
Section 2.13 Limited Obligations of Authority. The Note and the interest thereon is a
limited, not general, obligation of the Authority, payable solely from revenues, receipts
and security pledged therefore in the Note Issuance Agreement and the other mortgage,
pledge and security documents executed and delivered in connection with the Note. The
Note is not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois
or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority, and no city, village,
incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof
other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Note be payable
by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than those of the Authority pledged
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement. The Note does not constitute an indebtedness
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction. Neither
the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois nor any other political subdivision thereof shall
be obligated to pay the principal amount of, premium, if any, or interest on the Note or
other costs incident thereto except from the payments pledged with respect thereto and
certain reserve funds established in connection therewith. Neither the faith and credit nor
the taxing power of the United States of America, the Authority, the City, the State of
Illinois or any other political subdivision thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal
of, premium, if any, or interest on the Note or other costs incident thereto. The Note is not
a debt of the United States of America or any agency thereof, and is not guaranteed by the
United States of America or any agency thereof.
Section 2.14 Execution and Delivery of Note. The Note shall be executed on behalf of
the Authority in the manner provided in the Note Issuance Agreement. If any of the
officers who shall have signed or sealed the Note shall cease to be such officers of the
Authority before the Note so signed and sealed shall have been actually delivered by the
Authority, the Note nevertheless may be authenticated, issued and delivered with the same
force and effect as though the person or persons who signed or sealed the Note had not
ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority; and the Note may be signed and
sealed on behalf of the Authority by those persons who, at the actual date of the execution
of the Note, shall be the officers of the Authority designated in the Note Issuance
Agreement, although at the nominal date of the Note any such person shall not have been
such officer of the Authority.
Section 2.15 Approval of Note Documents. The forms of the Note Documents presented
to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute,
acknowledge and deliver the Note Documents, with such changes, insertions and
completions therein as shall be approved by such persons executing such documents
(subject to the limitations set forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such approval, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is hereby
authorized and directed to affix to the Note Documents the corporate seal of the Authority.
29

 Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such instruments, agreements
and documents as may be required by the holder of the Note.
Section 2.16 Sale of Note. (a) The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is
hereby authorized to sell the Note to Bank of America, N.A., or its designee, as
contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement presented to this meeting at a purchase
price of 100 percent of the principal amount thereof less an origination fee not to exceed
3% of the principal amount of the Note.
(b)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection
with the sale of the Note a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to the
authority granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
proper exercise by her of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such
certificate, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the
Secretary one copy of the Note Issuance Agreement as executed and delivered by the
Authority. Such filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to the execution of
the Note Issuance Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such filings to this
Board.
Section 2.17 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Note shall not be issued
unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including particularly the
approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been fully satisfied, and
that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Note shall be executed or
undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f) unless the
performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly conditioned upon the
prior satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior to the enactment of
this Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
PART III
Miscellaneous
Section 3.01 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement.
The form of Right of
First Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and
attached hereto as Exhibit O is approved in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, and the officers of the Authority designated in the Right of First Refusal
Agreement are authorized to execute and deliver the Right of First Refusal Agreement on
behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officers of the Authority executing
the same, their approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such
changes and revisions.
Section 3.02 Modification of Grant Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer or the
Chief Financial Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into one or more
amendments to the Grant Agreement to reflect the ownership of the Property and the use of
the proceeds of the Grant to assist in the rehabilitation of the Property.
Section 3.03 Investment Agreements. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized and directed to execute investment
agreements covering all or a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds and other amounts held
under the Indenture. Any such agreement shall constitute a permitted investment under
Illinois law.
Section 3.04 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse
shall be had for the payment of principal of or interest on any of the Bonds or the Note, or
for any claim based on the Bonds or Note, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement
in this Resolution contained against any past, present or future commissioner, officer,
director, member, employee or agent of the Authority, or of any successor public
corporation, as such, either directly or through the Authority or any successor public
corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute, ordinance or constitution or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such
commissioners, officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is expressly
waived and released by this Resolution as a condition of and consideration for the passage
of this Resolution and the issuance of such Bonds and Note.
Section 3.05 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do
any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority
under and pursuant to this Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever
nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution,
30

 including, but not limited to, the exercise following the delivery date of any of the Bonds
or the Note of any power or authority delegated to such official of the Authority under this
Resolution with respect to the Bonds or the Note upon the initial issuance thereof, but
subject to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor
to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other
officers, agents and employees of the Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered
and directed for and on behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers,
documents, certificates and other instruments that may be required to carry out the
authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence said authority.
Section 3.06 Allocation of Volume Cap. In accordance with the provisions of
Section 146 of the Code, the Authority shall accept an allocation of volume cap from the
City to the issuance of the Bonds and the Note. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental
agreement with the City relating to volume cap.
Section 3.07 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 3.08 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings
of the Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall
supersede any conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency.
Section 3.09 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.

(Item C5)
The resolutions for Items C5 approves the formation of Lathrop Elderly LLC and C/S
Lathrop Limited Partnership and approves the documents and related actions needed to
close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Lathrop elderly. Lathrop Elderly, located at
2717 North Leavitt Street in Chicago, Illinois, was constructed in 1959. This Senior
designated apartment building in the Authority’s City/State portfolio is eight-stories high,
features a penthouse, and contains ninety-two (92) apartments. The proposed renovation of
Lathrop Elderly is similar to Loomis Courts and Harrison Courts.
PROJECT RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq.,
as amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Lathrop Elderly Apartments, a 92unit housing property for elderly and disabled persons (the “Property”), located at 2717
North Leavitt, in the City of Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, the Property was originally acquired, constructed and equipped by the
Authority using a combination of state and local funds; and
WHEREAS, in 1979, the Authority entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(the “Original Section 8 Contract”) with the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) providing for the substantial rehabilitation of the Property
by the Authority and the payment of housing assistance payments by HUD to the
Authority with respect to the Property for a period of 20 years; and
WHEREAS, upon expiration of the Original Section 8 Contract, the Authority and HUD
entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Basic Renewal Contract with respect to the
Property for the period October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2005 (the “Section 8 Renewal
Contract”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Section 8 Renewal
Contract, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair, resulting in the receipt from HUD of substandard physical
assessment scores with respect to the Property; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation
of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell
and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
31

 under the low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced
or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated
entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal lowincome housing tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Board Resolution 2005-CHA-24, (a) C/S Lathrop Elderly Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership, has been formed to own and operate the
Property so as to be able to benefit from the availability of low-income housing tax credits
and FHA mortgage insurance, and (b) Lathrop Elderly LLC, an Illinois limited liability
company, has been formed to serve as the general partner of that limited partnership; and
WHEREAS, FHA mortgage insurance requires that a separate special purpose borrowing
entity be established with respect to any FHA-insured mortgage loan; and
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all powers
necessary or appropriate in order to engage in the rehabilitation, development and
redevelopment of projects; and
WHEREAS, Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Act;
and
WHEREAS, Section 26 of the Act provides that it is the purpose and intent of the Act to
authorize the Authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure the
financial aid or cooperation of the Federal government in the purchasing, acquiring,
constructing, maintaining, operating, improving, extending and repairing of housing
projects; and
WHEREAS, as provided in Section 10/9 of the Act, the sale and transfer of the Property
has been approved in writing by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (formerly, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community Affairs);
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority:
PART I
Formation of LLC and LP
Section 1.01 Formation of LLC. The formation of Lathrop Elderly LLC, an Illinois
limited liability company (the “General Partner”), of which the Authority is the sole
member is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. The Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority (the “Designated Officers”) are hereby
authorized to take all actions necessary to maintain the status of the General Partner as a
limited liability company under the laws of the State of Illinois.
Section 1.02 Operating Agreement. The form of LLC Operating Agreement presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting.
Section 1.03 Formation of LP.
The formation of C/S Lathrop Elderly Limited
Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Owner”), is hereby ratified and confirmed
in all respects.
Section 1.04 Partnership Agreement. The original form of Partnership Agreement
presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “Partnership Agreement”)
is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting. An amended and restated
partnership agreement, in the form approved by the Designated Officers, providing for the
replacement of the original limited partner with one or more investor limited partners, is
also hereby approved. The Chief Executive of the Authority is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Partnership Agreement on behalf of the General Partner.
Section 1.05 Development Agreement. The form of Development Agreement presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting. The Chief Executive of the Authority is hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Development Agreement on behalf of the Owner as well as on
behalf of the General Partner (not as general partner of the Owner, but as an independent
contractor).
Section 1.06 No liability of the Authority. The debts, obligations and undertakings of the
General Partner and the Owner shall be payable and/or satisfied solely from the assets and
32

 resources of the General Partner and the Owner, as applicable, and neither the Authority,
the State of Illinois, the City or any other political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall
be liable or responsible, directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such
debt, obligation or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or
agreement of any kind whatsoever of the General Partner or the Owner.
Section 1.07 No Recourse. No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of
any debt, obligation or undertaking of the General Partner or the Owner against any
commissioner, member, officer, employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present
or future, of the Authority, to the maximum extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of
any constitution, statute, ordinance or rule of law, or otherwise.
PART II
Approval of Purchase of Property
Section 2.01 Purchase of Property. The purchase of the Property by the Owner
for a purchase price of not less than $4,140,000 is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 2.02 Master Real Estate Sale Contract. The form of Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale Contract”) presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit D is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, and the General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to
execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by
the officer of the Authority executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive
evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 2.03 Acceptance of Assignment of Section 8 Contract. The form of Assignment
of Section 8 Contract with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit E is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to execute and accept delivery of the
Assignment of Section 8 Contract in substantially the form presented to this meeting,
together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the person executing the
same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of
such changes and revisions. The General Partner of the Owner is authorized to renew the
Section 8 Contract as authorized by HUD.
Section 2.04 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement. The form of Right of First
Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit F is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
General Partner on behalf of the Owner is authorized to execute and deliver the Right of
First Refusal Agreement in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the person executing the same, their
approval to constitute evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
PART III
Additional Approvals
Section 3.01 Development and Management of Property. The development and
management of the Property by the Owner is hereby approved. In order to accomplish
those purposes, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate instruments and
documents, including but not limited to, the construction contract, architect’s agreement
and appropriate management agreement. Friedler Corporation is hereby approved to act as
general contractor. Hispanic Housing Development Corporation is hereby approved to act
as property manager.
Section 3.02 Loan Transactions. In order to finance the costs of rehabilitating and
equipping the Property, the loan transactions described on Exhibit G attached hereto are
hereby approved.
Section 3.03 Approval of Loan Documentation. In order to evidence and secure the loan
transactions described on Exhibit G, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate
documents, instruments, mortgages and security instruments as may be required by the
applicable lender subject to the limitations set forth in Exhibit G.
Section 3.04 Tax-exempt Financing. It is recognized that the FHA-insured Mortgage
Loan and the Bank of America Bridge Loan will be funded by CHA bonds and a CHA
note, the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxation under Section 142 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Owner shall execute and deliver
such documents and instruments as shall be required to support the tax-exempt status of
such CHA obligations.
PART IV
Miscellaneous
33

 Section 4.01 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse
shall be had upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Resolution contained
against any past, present or future commissioner, officer, director, member, employee or
agent of the Authority, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or
through the Authority or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity,
statute, ordinance or constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, and all such liability of any such commissioners, officers, directors, members,
employees or agents as such is expressly waived and released by this Resolution as a
condition of and consideration for the passage of this Resolution.
Section 4.02 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do
any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority
under and pursuant to this Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever
nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution,
including, but not limited to, the exercise of any power or authority delegated to such
official of the Authority under this Resolution, but subject to any limitations on or
restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other officers, agents and employees of the
Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on behalf of the
Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other instruments
that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence
said authority.
Section 4.03 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 4.04 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings
of the Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall
supersede any conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency.
Section 4.05 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.

Loan
Source
FHA-Insured
Loan
Bank of
America Bridge
Loan
CHA Seller
Financing
CHA Loan
CHA/DCEO
Loan

EXHIBIT G
Schedule of Loan Transactions
Lien
Maximum
Maximum
Status
Amount
Term
First Mortgage
$4,317,610
45 years

Maximum
Interest Rate
7%

Second
Mortgage

$2,386,515

5 years

Statutory
Maximum

Third Mortgage

$5,060,000

45 years

AFR

Fourth
Mortgage
Fifth Mortgage

$3,162,500

45 years

0%

$2,000,000

45 years

0%

(Item C6)
The resolution for Item C6 approves the Financing Plan and Related Financing Documents
needed to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Lathrop elderly. To facilitate the
renovation of Lathrop Elderly, a multi-tiered financing approach will be utilized similar to
the approach used for Loomis Courts and Harrison Courts.
FINANCING RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq.,

34

 as amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Lathrop Elderly Apartments, a 92unit housing property for elderly and disabled persons (the “Property”), located at 2717
North Leavitt, in the City of Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, the Property was originally acquired, constructed and equipped by the
Authority using a combination of state and local funds; and
WHEREAS, in 1979, the Authority entered into an Housing Assistance Payments Contract
(the “Original Section 8 Contract”) with the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) providing for the substantial rehabilitation of the Property
by the Authority and the payment of housing assistance payments by HUD to the
Authority with respect to the Property for a period of 20 years; and
WHEREAS, upon expiration of the Original Section 8 Contract, the Authority and HUD
entered into a Housing Assistance Payments Basic Renewal Contract with respect to the
Property for the period October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2005 (the “Section 8 Renewal
Contract”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Section 8 Renewal
Contract, adequate funds have not been not available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair, resulting in the receipt from HUD of substandard physical
assessment scores with respect to the Property; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the rehabilitation
of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable to sell
and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the low-income housing tax credit program pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”); and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been reduced
or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United
States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated
entities in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal lowincome housing tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, C/S Lathrop Elderly Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Owner”), has been formed to own and operate the Property so as to be able to benefit
from the availability of low-income housing tax credits and FHA mortgage insurance; and
WHEREAS, Lathrop Elderly LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the “General
Partner”) has been formed to serve as the general partner of the Owner; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Property constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and the financing thereof will
meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Local Government Debt Reform
Act, 30 ILCS 305/1 et seq. (the “Debt Reform Act”), the Authority is authorized to issue
its notes and bonds for the purposes provided herein; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys to the Owner as described in Part I
below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys derived from the Illinois Department
of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (“DCEO”) as described in Part II below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the Property to Owner and make a loan to the Owner to
finance a portion of the purchase price of the Property, as described in Part III below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will issue the Bonds and the Note as described in Part II below;
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority:
PART I
Approval of Sale of Property and CHA Financing to Owner
Section 1.01 Sale and Transfer of Property. The sale and transfer of the Property
to the Owner for a purchase price of not less than $4,140,000 is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 1.02 Master Real Estate Sale Contract. The form of Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale Contract”) presented
to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form
presented to this meeting, and the Designated Officers of the Authority are authorized to
35

 execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement on behalf of the Authority in
substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with such changes and revisions
as shall be approved by the officer of the Authority executing the same, his or her approval
to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 1.03 Assignment of Section 8 Contract. The form of Assignment of Section 8
Contract with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached hereto as
Exhibit B is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
Designated Officers of the Authority are authorized to execute and deliver the Assignment
of Section 8 Contract on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officer of
the Authority executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of
this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions. The Designated Officers are
authorized to renew the Section 8 Contract as authorized by HUD.
Section 1.04 Approval of CHA Seller Financing Loan. As provided in the Master
Real Estate Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A, the Authority shall provide seller
financing to the Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to pay the purchase price
of the Property to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in
an amount not to exceed $5,060,000 and bearing interest at the Applicable Federal Rate (as
defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) for a term not to exceed 45 years. To
secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner shall execute and deliver a
subordinate mortgage on the Property.
Section 1.05 Approval of CHA Loan. The Authority shall make a loan to the
Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay the loan to the Authority, the
Owner shall execute and deliver one or more promissory notes, in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $3,162,500 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a term not to
exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner shall
execute and deliver one or more subordinate mortgages on the Property and other security
documents. The aggregate amount of such loan for this and the other two City/State
projects that will be funded from insurance fund moneys shall not exceed $10,000,000.
Section 1.06 Approval of CHA Loan of DCEO Moneys. The Authority may, if so
determined by the Chief Executive Officer, make a loan to the Owner out of or otherwise
apply money it receives from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (“DCEO”). To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay any such loan
to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in an amount not
to exceed $2,000,000 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a term not to
exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under any such note, the Owner
shall execute and deliver a subordinate mortgage on the Property and other security
documents.
PART II
Approval of Bond and Note Financing
Section 2.01 Forms of Bond Documents. There have been presented to this Board
forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Bond
Documents”):
Document
Other Party
Exhibit
C
Trust Indenture
JP Morgan Trust
Company, National
Association, as
Trustee
D
Financing Agreement
Owner, Trustee and
Lender
E
Escrow Agreement
Trustee, Escrow
Agent and Owner
F
Regulatory Agreement and
Trustee and Owner
Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants
G
Bonds Tax Agreement
Owner
Section 2.02 Forms of Note Documents. There have also been presented to this Board
forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Note
Documents”):

36

 Exhibit
H

Document
Note Issuance Agreement

I
J

Loan Agreement
Note

K

Assignment and Security
Agreement
Note Tax Agreement

L

Other Party
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder and Fiscal Agent
Owner
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder
Bank of America, N.A., as
Noteholder
Owner

Section 2.03 Appointment of Fiscal Agent. Bank of America N.A. is hereby appointed as
Fiscal Agent under the Note Issuance Agreement.
Section 2.04 Authorization of Bonds. For the purpose of providing funds to pay, or to
reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation of the
Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of not to exceed $7,480,000
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be dated, shall mature on such
dates (not beyond January 1, 2050) shall be in such principal amounts, shall bear interest at
such rate or rates, not to exceed 10 percent per annum, shall be payable on such dates, all
as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, at the time
of the execution and delivery of the Bond Purchase Agreement (as hereinafter described).
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions
set forth in the Indenture as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.05 Source of Payment of Bonds. The Bonds, together with interest thereon
shall be secured by the GNMA Securities (as defined in the Indenture) and the CHA Funds
(as defined in the Escrow Agreement) and shall be payable solely from the revenues and
receipts derived from the GNMA Securities and the CHA Funds as provided in the
Indenture and the Escrow Agreement (except to the extent paid out of moneys attributable
to the Bond proceeds and other funds established under the Indenture or the income from
the temporary investment thereof), and shall be a valid claim of the owners thereof only
against the funds and other moneys held by the Trustee and the revenues and receipts
derived from the GNMA Securities under the Indenture and the CHA Funds under the
Escrow Agreement.
Section 2.06 Limited Obligations of the Authority. The Bonds and the interest thereon
are limited, not general, obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the Trust Estate
under the Indenture. The Bonds are not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or
county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority,
and no city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall
the Bonds be payable by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than those of
the Authority pledged pursuant to the Indenture. The Bonds do not constitute an
indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or
restriction. Neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the United States of
America, the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois or any other political subdivision
thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the
Bonds or other costs incident thereto. The Bonds are not a debt of the United States of
America or any agency thereof, and are not guaranteed by the United States of America or
any agency thereof.
Section 2.07 Execution and Delivery of Bonds. The Bonds shall be executed on behalf
of the Authority in the manner provided in the Indenture. If any of the officers who shall
have signed or sealed any of said Bonds shall cease to be such officers of the Authority
before the Bonds so signed and sealed shall have been actually authenticated by the
Trustee or delivered by the Authority, such Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated,
issued and delivered with the same force and effect as though the person or persons who
signed or sealed such Bonds had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority;
and also any such Bonds may be signed and sealed on behalf of the Authority by those
persons who, at the actual date of the execution of such Bonds, shall be the officers of the
Authority so designated in the Indenture, although at the nominal date of such Bonds any
such person shall not have been such officer of the Authority.
Section 2.08 Approval of Bond Documents. The forms of the Bond Documents
presented to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any

37

 Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute
and deliver the Bond Documents with such changes, insertions and completions therein as
shall be approved by such persons executing such documents (subject to the limitations set
forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of
such changes, insertions and completions, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is
hereby authorized and directed to affix to the Bond Documents the corporate seal of the
Authority. Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such instruments,
agreements and documents as may be required by HUD or FHA in connection with the
Mortgage Loan (as defined in the Indenture) or the GNMA Securities.
Section 2.09 Sale of Bonds. (a) The Bonds shall be sold and delivered to, or upon the
direction of, one or more underwriters (the “Underwriters”) selected by the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, subject to the terms and conditions of a bond
purchase agreement related to the Bonds (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”). The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute and deliver on behalf
of the Authority the Bond Purchase Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit M, with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the Bonds, and
with such other revisions in text as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds. The
execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer shall be deemed conclusive evidence of the approval of this Board of the
terms provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement. The compensation paid to the
Underwriters in connection with the sale of the Bonds shall not exceed 3 percent of their
aggregate principal amount. In connection with the offer and delivery of the Bonds, the
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers of the Authority
as may be necessary, are authorized to execute and deliver such instruments and
documents as may be necessary to implement the transaction and to effect the issuance and
delivery of the Bonds. Any limitation on the amount of Bonds issued pursuant to this
Resolution as set forth herein shall be exclusive of any original issue discount or premium.
(b)
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to
cause to be prepared the form of Preliminary Official Statement describing the Bonds. The
Preliminary Official Statement shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
N, together with such changes thereto and modifications thereof as shall be approved by
the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer. The distribution of the Preliminary
Official Statement to prospective purchasers and the use thereof by the Underwriters in
connection with the offering of the Bonds are hereby authorized and approved. The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to permit the distribution
of a final Official Statement, in substantially the form of the Preliminary Official
Statement, with such changes, omissions, insertions and revisions thereto and completions
thereof as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall deem advisable.
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and
deliver the final Official Statement to the Underwriters in the name and on behalf of the
Authority, the execution of such final Official Statement to constitute conclusive evidence
of the approval of such officer of such changes and completions.
(c)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection
with the sale of the Bonds a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to
the authority granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
proper exercise by her of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such
certificate, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the
Secretary one copy of the final Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement in
connection with the Bonds. Each filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to
the execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such
filings to this Board.
Section 2.10 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Bonds shall not be
issued unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including
particularly the approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been
fully satisfied, and that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Bonds shall be
executed or undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f)
unless the performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly
conditioned upon the prior satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior
to the enactment of this Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Section 2.11 Authorization of Note. For the purpose of providing funds to pay, or to
38

 reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation of the
Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of the Note, which shall be in a
principal amount not to exceed $2,386,515. The Note shall be dated, shall mature on such
date (not beyond January 1, 2010) and in such principal amount, and shall bear interest,
except as set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, at an interest rate of not to exceed the
Maximum Rate (as defined in the Note Issuance Agreement), and shall be payable on such
date, all as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer at
the time of the execution and delivery of the Note Issuance Agreement. The Note shall be
subject to redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Note
Issuance Agreement as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.12 Source of Payment of Note. The Note, together with interest thereon, shall
be secured and payable solely as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement, and shall be a
valid claim of the owner thereof only against the funds and other moneys held under or
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement and the other mortgage, pledge and security
documents executed and delivered in connection with the Note.
Section 2.13 Limited Obligations of Authority. The Note and the interest thereon is a
limited, not general, obligation of the Authority, payable solely from revenues, receipts
and security pledged therefore in the Note Issuance Agreement and the other mortgage,
pledge and security documents executed and delivered in connection with the Note. The
Note is not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois
or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority, and no city, village,
incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof
other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Note be payable
by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than those of the Authority pledged
pursuant to the Note Issuance Agreement. The Note does not constitute an indebtedness
within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction. Neither
the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois nor any other political subdivision thereof shall
be obligated to pay the principal amount of, premium, if any, or interest on the Note or
other costs incident thereto except from the payments pledged with respect thereto and
certain reserve funds established in connection therewith. Neither the faith and credit nor
the taxing power of the United States of America, the Authority, the City, the State of
Illinois or any other political subdivision thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal
of, premium, if any, or interest on the Note or other costs incident thereto. The Note is not
a debt of the United States of America or any agency thereof, and is not guaranteed by the
United States of America or any agency thereof.
Section 2.14 Execution and Delivery of Note. The Note shall be executed on behalf of
the Authority in the manner provided in the Note Issuance Agreement. If any of the
officers who shall have signed or sealed the Note shall cease to be such officers of the
Authority before the Note so signed and sealed shall have been actually delivered by the
Authority, the Note nevertheless may be authenticated, issued and delivered with the same
force and effect as though the person or persons who signed or sealed the Note had not
ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority; and the Note may be signed and
sealed on behalf of the Authority by those persons who, at the actual date of the execution
of the Note, shall be the officers of the Authority designated in the Note Issuance
Agreement, although at the nominal date of the Note any such person shall not have been
such officer of the Authority.
Section 2.15 Approval of Note Documents. The forms of the Note Documents presented
to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute,
acknowledge and deliver the Note Documents, with such changes, insertions and
completions therein as shall be approved by such persons executing such documents
(subject to the limitations set forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive
evidence of such approval, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is hereby
authorized and directed to affix to the Note Documents the corporate seal of the Authority.
Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such instruments, agreements
and documents as may be required by the holder of the Note.
Section 2.16 Sale of Note. (a) The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is
hereby authorized to sell the Note to Bank of America, N.A., or its designee, as
contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement presented to this meeting at a purchase
price of 100 percent of the principal amount thereof less an origination fee not to exceed
3% of the principal amount of the Note.
(b)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
39

 or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection
with the sale of the Note a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to the
authority granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
proper exercise by her of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such
certificate, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the
Secretary one copy of the Note Issuance Agreement as executed and delivered by the
Authority. Such filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to the execution of
the Note Issuance Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such filings to this
Board.
Section 2.17 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Note shall not be issued
unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including particularly the
approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been fully satisfied, and
that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Note shall be executed or
undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f) unless the
performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly conditioned upon the
prior satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior to the enactment of
this Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
PART III
Miscellaneous
Section 3.01 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement.
The form of Right of
First Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and
attached hereto as Exhibit O is approved in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, and the officers of the Authority designated in the Right of First Refusal
Agreement are authorized to execute and deliver the Right of First Refusal Agreement on
behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with
such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officers of the Authority executing
the same, their approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such
changes and revisions.
Section 3.02 Modification of Grant Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer or the
Chief Financial Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into one or more
amendments to the Grant Agreement to reflect the ownership of the Property and the use of
the proceeds of the Grant to assist in the rehabilitation of the Property.
Section 3.03 Investment Agreements. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized and directed to execute investment
agreements covering all or a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds and other amounts held
under the Indenture. Any such agreement shall constitute a permitted investment under
Illinois law.
Section 3.04 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No recourse
shall be had for the payment of principal of or interest on any of the Bonds or the Note, or
for any claim based on the Bonds or Note, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement
in this Resolution contained against any past, present or future commissioner, officer,
director, member, employee or agent of the Authority, or of any successor public
corporation, as such, either directly or through the Authority or any successor public
corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute, ordinance or constitution or by the
enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such liability of any such
commissioners, officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is expressly
waived and released by this Resolution as a condition of and consideration for the passage
of this Resolution and the issuance of such Bonds and Note.
Section 3.05 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant
Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do
any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority
under and pursuant to this Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever
nature necessary to effect and carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution,
including, but not limited to, the exercise following the delivery date of any of the Bonds
or the Note of any power or authority delegated to such official of the Authority under this
Resolution with respect to the Bonds or the Note upon the initial issuance thereof, but
subject to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to
the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other
officers, agents and employees of the Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered
and directed for and on behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers,
40

 documents, certificates and other instruments that may be required to carry out the
authority conferred by this Resolution or to evidence said authority.
Section 3.06 Allocation of Volume Cap. In accordance with the provisions of
Section 146 of the Code, the Authority shall accept an allocation of volume cap from the
City to the issuance of the Bonds and the Note. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental
agreement with the City relating to volume cap.
Section 3.07 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 3.08 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings
of the Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall
supersede any conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency.
Section 3.09 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C6 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also
accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_________________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
__________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

41

 