MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 15, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
February 15, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at Hispanic Housing Development Corporation, 1402 North
Kedzie, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Earnest Gates

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer of the CHA, then presented his report. Per Mr. Peterson
every month, the business of improving public housing in Chicago moves forward, and if some
of the activity on the agenda today sounds familiar it’s because the plan has been set for some
time and for the most part CHA is following the plan. Mr. Peterson then highlighted the issues
that were going to be proposed for approval by the Board, focusing on the approval of contracts
related to social services, management issues, and construction. Mr. Peterson mentioned that
the Authority is fortunate to be getting through another winter without any serious breakdowns
or disruptions of services to the CHA residents. According to Mr. Peterson, the money that has
been invested each year to better maintain and manage the buildings is translating into a better
quality of life for residents each year. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by informing the
public that based on the Plan for Transformation, CHA residents can look forward to several new
groundbreakings, more units coming on line, and an accelerated flow of residents returning to
newer, strong, healthier communities.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
1

 Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. The Chairperson announced that
Commissioner Gates had to leave the meeting for a prior scheduled engagement. Chairperson
Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner
Harris then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve Executive Session Items 1 thru 3.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-10
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 3, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Reports for January 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Reports for
January 2005

Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 31,
2005 requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of
Wanda Agbalya, As Administrator of the Estate of Maurice Britton, vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, 03 L 9339, and pay a settlement amount of $175,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Wanda Agbalya, As
Administrator of the Estate of Maurice Britton, vs. Chicago Housing Authority,
03 L 9339, and pay a settlement amount of $175,000.

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005 CHA-12
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed a Board Letter dated January 28, 2005
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Hubert & Fowler in
connection with the Wallace, et al. v. CHA litigation,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 5012 with Hubert & Fowler to increase the
contract in an amount not to exceed $200,000 in order to pay for legal fees and
expenses regarding Wallace, et al. v. CHA, 03 C 491.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by Commissioner
Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

2

 Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of Tenant Service Committee then presented the Tenant
Service Committee report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, February 9, 2005 at the 626 W. Jackson Office at
1:00 p.m. The Committee was presented with an update on the Service Connector Program by
Meghan Harte, Managing Director of Resident Services, Molly McGrath from CDHS and Clara
Kirk from the West Englewood United Organization. Kelvy Brown from the Chicago
Department of Public Health briefed the Committee on the Substance Abuse Program.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 through A5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The FY2000 Senior Designated Housing Plan is scheduled to expire on March 6, 2005. The
resolution for Item A1 approves submittal to HUD of the FY2005 Senior Designated Housing
Plan to 1) extend the designation for 59 properties for five years; and 2) amend the parameters of
the senior designation so that, moving forward, the CHA will lease units only to the elderly, and
will not lease units to the near-elderly in the senior designated properties. All current residents
of these buildings will be allowed to stay. The CHA’s proposed FY2005 Designation will allow
the CHA to prepare for an influx of low-income seniors, whose population is expected to greatly
increase in the next five to ten years. It is important to get HUD’s approval to extend and amend
the Senior Designated Housing Plan as the CHA embarks on the second half of the Plan for
Transformation, and shifts its focus from rehabilitation of the senior buildings to leasing them
up.
. RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated January 31, 2005
entitled “Recommendation that the Chicago Housing Authority approve the
FY2005 Senior Designated Housing Plan to extend and amend the designation of
59 properties as senior-only (age 62 and above).
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2005 Senior Designated
Housing Plan to designate 59 properties as senior-only (age 62 and above), and
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to 1) approve final changes, including
changes resulting from the notice and comment process; 2) submit the Plan to the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for approval; and
3) approve any final changes based on HUD’s requirements. Such approval by
the Chief Executive Officer shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes

(Item A2)
In March 2003, the Board of Commissioners authorized contracts with Smith Movers, Inc. and
Big “O” Movers and Storage, Inc. to provide resident relocation moving services for a two year
base period. Each contract was for an amount of compensation not-to-exceed $400,000.00.
Subsequent Board approval for amendment of both contracts was granted in FY2004. Both
contracts expire on or about March 31, 2005. During the course of these contracts, the number
of families that the Housing Choice Voucher Department has been requested to relocate has
grown steadily. Additionally, the CHA expanded moving services for City/State properties,
Altgeld Gardens, Summer Food Sites, pickup and delivery of donations, and for the relocation of
various on-site agencies, many of which were not fully anticipated and originally scheduled for
Phase IV of the Plan for Transformation. Approval by the Board to extend each of these two
contracts for an additional one (1) year term is required to continue relocating families without
interruption due to uninhabitable units, building consolidations, and to endeavor to ensure the
safety of families, as well as to conduct the remaining moves anticipated for Phase IV of the Plan
for Transformation. Each of these contractors has either met or exceeded an acceptable level of
performance

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 7, 2005 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE (1) YEAR OPTION TO EXTEND THE
RESIDENT RELOCATION MOVING CONTRACTS WITH SMITH MOVERS,
INC. AND BIG “O’ MOVERS AND STORAGE, INC.”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORIY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to exercise the first one (l)-year option of the contracts for resident
relocation moving services with Smith Movers Inc. in the amount of $969,877.00
and with Big “O” Movers and Van Lines, Inc. in the amount of $936,915.00, for
an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $1,906,792.00 for both contracts for the
period of April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006

(Item A3)
In October of 2003, the CHA Board of Commissioners approved a contract with Brinshore
Michaels or BMT-I, LLC to provide Community and Supportive Services to the residents of the
Robert Taylor Homes. The primary focus of the CSS Contract is to assist CHA families that
have chosen to return to the newly developed Robert Taylor mixed income community. Services
were specifically designed to address meeting the site specific criteria and the barriers families
may face in meeting the screening criteria. BMT-I serviced approximately 245 families in 2004.
The current contract will expire in February 2005. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3
approves the contract extension for an additional one year. The requested funding for the one (1)
year contract extension will allow BMT-I, LLC to continue serving the 100 families remaining in
Robert Taylor Homes as well as 170 families being screened for move-in into the newly
developed Robert Taylor development. The services to be rendered during the option year will
continue to focus on the screening process by assisting residents to present accurate
documentation to meet the screening criteria, job placement and retention services among other
necessary services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 7,
2005 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND CONTRACT No. 0576 WITH
BMT-I, LLC FOR AN ADDITIONAL YEAR TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY &
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO FAMILIES RELOCATING TO THE ROBERT
TAYLOR MIXED-INCOME COMMUNITY”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0576 with BMT-I, LLC for an additional one
year term to provide community and supportive services in the amount not to
exceed $569,140.00.

(Item A4)
In December 2003, the Board authorized a contract with the Uhlich Children’s Advantage
Network (UCAN) to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families in 2004 that
had to relocate from their existing public housing in buildings scheduled for closing due to
redevelopment/rehabilitation to other CHA public housing units or the private-market housing
using a Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”). The agreement was for fourteen (14) months with
four one-year options. During the 14 month contract period, Uhlich will have begun to provide
services to 100 families in Altgeld Gardens and Trumbull Park/Lowden Homes family
developments. Funds will be utilized during the option period to provide the remainder of
services to these families, which include placement and follow-up. $405,000.00 of additional
funding is required for the one year extension option to allow Uhlich to provide services to
approximately 144 new families in Cabrini Green Homes scheduled for relocation later this year.
This additional funding, when added to the balance that will be available at the end of the base
term of the Contract, will allow the CHA to pay for housing counseling and supportive services
provided to families relocating in 2005 and to finish follow-up services for those families, who
relocated during the initial term of the Contract. Overall, Uhlich will have serviced

4

 approximately 244 families in 2004 and 2005. The resolution for Item A4 approves the first year
option of Uhlich’s contract. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A4 approves the first year
option of Uhlich’s contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-16
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated February 9, 2005 entitled “Recommendation to Exercise the
First Year Option of Contract No. 0455 with Uhlich Children’s Advantage
Network for Housing and Supportive Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (l) year option of Contract No. 0455 with Uhlich
Children’s Advantage Network (“Contract”) for housing and supportive services
for the period of April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006 and to add $405,000.00
additional funding to the not-to-exceed contract amount. The new total not-toexceed amount of the Contract will be $1,173,000.00

(Item A5)
In December 2003, the Board of Commissioners authorized the CHA to enter into a 14 month
contract, with 4 one-year extension options, with Changing Patterns For Families (CPF) to
provide housing and supportive services counseling services to families who had to relocate from
their existing public housing in buildings scheduled for closing. In October 2004, the CHA
approved Amendment No. 1 to the Contract to increase the cost per family for all new families
referred after the date of the Amendment and to provide additional housing and counseling
services consistent with the original Scope of Work of the Contract. The total not-to-exceed
contract amount payable to CPF was not adjusted. CPF has begun to work with Phase V families
residing in their current public housing apartments in Robert Taylor and a number of City/ State
buildings starting in January 2005. Because the contract year ends March 31, 2005, the
Relocation and Supportive Services Department requests $327,520.00 be added to the original
not-to-exceed amount of contract compensation in order to cover services from January 3, 2005
through March 31, 2005 and to allow CPF to immediately begin working with families at Robert
Taylor and City/ State properties. In addition, an estimated 470 new families will be referred to
CPF during the option year. CPF will also provide follow-up services to existing families from
its caseload. The total cost for services to be provided during the option year is $1,874,600.
This figure is based on the amended fee structure, the projected total number of families to be
referred to CPF during the option year and the number of families referred during the initial term
of the Contract that CPF will continue to serve during the option year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-17
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated February 9, 2005 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
MODIFY CONTRACT NO. 0452 WITH CHANGING PATTERNS FOR
FAMILIES, INC. FOR HOUSING AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND TO
EXERCISE THE CONTRACT’S FIRST YEAR OPTION ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to modify Contract No. 0452 (‘Contract”) with Changing Patterns for
Families, Inc. for housing and supportive services by increasing the not-to-exceed
compensation amount by $327,520.00 for the balance of the original term, and to
exercise the first one (1) year option of the Contract in the amount of $1,874,600
for the period of April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006. The aggregate increase
in the not-to-exceed compensation amount is $2,202,120 and the new total not-to
exceed compensation amount of the Contract is $3,197,720.00

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A5 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam

5

 Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of Operations and Facilities Committee,
Commissioner Healey presented the Operations Committee’s report. Per Commissioner Healey,
the Operations and Facilities Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday,
February 9, 2005, at approximately 2:15 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. No presentations
were scheduled to come before the Committee.
Commissioner Healey then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1
The resolution for Item B1 approves contract ratification with Globetrotters Engineering for PDC
services at Lowden Homes for additional work completed and approval of funding for proposed
additional work. Work already performed by Globetrotters, at a proposed cost of $233,875.00
includes: design and engineering work enhance the air cooling system of the recreation room at
4949 S. Cottage Grove, which also doubles as a cooling center; upgrade of the elevator systems
to meet Building Codes at five Senior buildings; improvements to the incinerator room; redesign of two playground sites and re-design work for the first re-bid of Phases 2 & 3 of
Lowden Homes. The Department of Capital Construction requested that Globetrotters be
awarded $161,790.00 to perform electrical work and re-design work for the second re-bid of
Phases 2 & 3 of Lowden Homes, including the introduction of Smart Homes technology.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA -18
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 31, 2005,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND CONTRACT NO. 9378 WITH
GLOBETROTTERS ENGINEERING CORPORATION FOR THE PROVISION
OF PRIME DESIGN CONSULTANT SERVICES AT LOWDEN HOMES AND
VARIOUS SENIOR HOUSING”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9378 with Globetrotters Engineering Corporation
to ratify the expenditure of $233,875.00 for Prime Design Consultant (PDC)
services at Lowden Homes (IL2-013) and various Senior Housing properties not
included in the original Scope of Work, and to provide additional PDC services at
a cost of $161,790.00. The total amount to be added to Contract No. 9378 is
$395,665.00. The new total value of Contract No. 9378 will be $5,153,162.00.
The length of the contract remains unchanged. This award is subject to
Globetrotters Engineering Corporation’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves ratification of a new contract with H&R for architectural
design work H&R has completed for electrical upgrades for Lake Parc Place. The Authority
believes these upgrades were necessary to bring the electrical systems in the buildings into
compliance with the City of Chicago Building Code, to meet the occupant’s load demands, and

6

 to meet the demands created by the installation of new window air conditioner units and GFCI
receptacles at these properties. The CHA also requested that H&R provide the additional services
required for the design of package air conditioner units at the Day Care Center located at 3939 S.
Lake Park Avenue. This work was required to meet City of Chicago Building Codes. Due to
time constraints and the familiarity of H&R, being the Architect of Record and PDC for Lake
Park Place, management determined that it was in the best interest of the Authority to procure
these services on a non-competitive basis following proper review and approval.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA -19
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 31, 2005
entitled “RATIFICATION OF A CONTRACT WITH HOLABIRD & ROOT
LLC FOR THE PROVISION OF PRIME DESIGN CONSULTANT SERVICES
AT LAKE PARC PLACE FAMILY DEVELOPMENT (IL2 – 014 AND IL2 –
026)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies a contract with Holabird & Root LLC for the
provisions of Prime Design Consultant (PDC) services at the Lake Parc Place
family development, 3983 S. Lake Park Avenue (IL2-026) and 3939 S. Lake Park
Avenue (IL2-014). The contract value will be $156,681.00

(Item B3)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program (CIP), Contract Number 0438 was executed
between the CHA and Boyle and Associates, Ltd. to provide construction management services
to CHAC Headquarters, 916–1000 South Wabash Avenue. Boyle’s original fee proposal of
$121,500.00 presumed a five (5) month preconstruction phase and a seven (7) month
construction phase based upon a design/bid/build process. Shortly after, the CHA elected to
utilize a design/build process (as a prototype for future projects) rather than the typically used
design/bid/build process. As a result of the change to a design/build process and an increase in
the project scope and a doubling of the construction budget, the amount of work required to be
performed by Boyle was also increased. The Contract, which was executed on or about March 1,
2004, did not provide compensation to cover the increased amount of work to match the
revisions that increased the Contract’s scope of work from the RFP, and did not adjust the
anticipated completion date of the design/build Project. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3
approves ratification of the contract modification, extension of contract and increase in
compensation for a total value of $241,500.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA - 20
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 9, 2005,
entitled “RATIFICATION OF MODIFCATION AND AUTHORIZATION TO
AMEND CONTRACT NO. 0438 WITH BOYLE AND ASSOCIATES, LTD.
FOR THE PROVISION OF CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES
AT 916/1000 SOUTH WABASH AVENUE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratify a modification to Contract No. 0438 with
Boyle and Associates, Ltd. (”Contract”) for construction management services for
the Design-Build project at 916 – 1000 South Wabash Avenue and authorize the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to amend the Contract to extend the
contract term by ten (10) months until December 31, 2005 or until construction is
completed, and to increase the compensation amount by $120,000.00. The new
total value of Contract No. 0438 will be $241,500.00.This amendment is subject
to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3
resident hiring, and insurance requirements

(Item B4)
In December 2004, an Invitation for Bid was advertised in area newspapers to furnish and install
bi-fold doors at three Senior Housing properties. The Authority also mailed flyers to three firms,
including two MBE/WBE/DBE firms. After reviewing the bids, the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder was determined to be C & P Maintenance. Accordingly, the resolution for

7

 Item B4 approves award of contract to C&P Maintenance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA - 21
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 12, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH C & P
MAINTENANCE TO FURNISH AND INSTALL BI-FOLD DOORS AT 2140
N. CLARK (IL2-51), 2640 N. SHEFFIELD (IL2-61), AND 2720 N. SHEFFIELD
(IL2-72)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with C & P Maintenance in the amount of
$493,391.88 to furnish and install bi-fold doors at three (3) Senior Housing
properties at 2140 N. Clark (IL2-51), 2640 N. Sheffield (IL2-61), and 2720 N.
Sheffield (IL2-72). The contract will be awarded for a term of ninety (90)
calendar days, inclusive of weekends and holidays, from receipt of the Notice to
Proceed for each property. The award of this contract is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and insurance requirements

(Item B5)
The CHA/HABITAT requested submissions of qualifications from interested developers,
development teams or building(s) owners of existing private housing units to promote the
development or dedication of approximately 1,100 public housing units in mixed income
communities throughout the City of Chicago. As a compliment to its “onsite” revitalization
program, CHA/Habitat intends to utilize a mixed-finance method to promote its Housing for
Chicagoans Everywhere Program. Through the Request for Qualifications (RFQ), CHA/Habitat
sought Developer/Development teams/owners who are interested in receiving financial
assistance from CHA/Habitat in return for setting aside no more than 30% of the units in each
property for public-housing eligible families. The successful Respondents, as listed in the
approved Resolution for Item B5 below, have become pre-qualified developer/owners, who may
propose and secure CHA Board approval for a specific number of public housing units under a
mixed-finance arrangement with CHA/ Habitat for a one year period. The Habitat Company
LLC, as Gautreaux receiver, would acquire the units of family housing via purchase contract.
CHA, in accordance with the plan for Transformation, is prepared to acquire off site replacement
housing pursuant to the projected Plan for Transformation unit delivery schedule. As units are
considered for new family public housing, these units are subject to the Gautreaux court. Any
acquisition or purchase is subject to obtaining any required approval from HUD, the Gautreaux
court and/or Gautreaux plaintffs’ counsel, Consent Decrees and Agreed Orders and any other
necessary approvals.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 9, 2004
entitled “Authorization to expand the pool of pre-qualified housing developers,
development teams and multi-unit building owners for the specific intention of
delivering off-site replacement housing to the Chicago Housing Authority for
public housing eligible families”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to expand
the pool of pre-qualified housing developers, development teams and multi-unit
building owners for the specific intention of proposing and securing CHA board
approval for the delivery of off-site replacement housing units to the CHA for
eligible families under a mixed-finance arrangement with CHA/The Habitat
Company for a one year period (from the date of the “Notice of Qualification”).
The resultant individual acquisition transactions will be presented to the Board of
Commissioners as they are negotiated and will be subject to HUD and any other
necessary approvals.

Firms:
Urban Property Advisors (MBE)

8

 54 West Hubbard, Suite 205
Chicago, IL 60610
City Investors, LLC & A Safe Haven (Joint Venture)
180 W. Washington St., Suite 1000
Chicago, IL 60602
Greenline Development
3215 W. Lawrence
Chicago, IL 60625
(Item B6)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, in January 2005, the CHA solicited bids for the
general modernization of apartment units and common areas, façade repairs, and building site
improvements at Lowden Homes. The scope of work provides for selective demolition,
construction and replacement of parking lot paving, concrete walks, ramps and curbs, sewers,
water mains and sewer mains. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and flyers were also
mailed to twenty-eight firms, including nine MBE/WBE firms. After reviewing the bids, the
lowest responsive and responsible bidder was determined to be Blinderman Construction.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Blinderman Construction
in the Based amount of $8,763,088.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 9, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
BLINDERMAN CONSTRUCTION FOR PHASES 2 AND 3 OF THE
MODERNIZATION OF LOWDEN HOMES (IL2-013)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract in the amount of $8,763,088.00 with Blinderman
Construction for Phases 2 and 3 of the modernization of Lowden Homes (IL2013). This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirement

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Martin Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance Committee then presented his report.
Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday,
February 9, 2005 at approximately 2:35 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The
Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow
Report as of January 31, 2005.
Commissioner Nesbitt then presented an Omnibus Resolution for the approval of the following
two items:

9

 (Item C1)
The CHA is pursuing strategies to obtain and leverage funding for the rehabilitation of the CityState Properties and to establish the Program. To attract tax credit financing, it is presently
contemplated that the Program will be implemented by limited partnership owner entities in
which the LLC’s will be the general partners. CHA is the sole member of each LLC. However,
the LLC’s and owner entities are distinct legal entities from the CHA and the CHA shall not be
responsible for the obligations of these entities. In order to obtain tax credits, FHA insurance,
bond volume cap, and other sources of financing, the CHA, as sponsor and/or as member of the
LLC’s, must submit applications and documents (which may include certifications as to CHA’s
authority), negotiate with investors, and take other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
assemble financing and to develop the City-State Properties. Board approval of the assembled
financing package will be sought at the appropriate time. This interim authority is sought to
authorize the various actions necessary prior to reaching a closing, including, but not limited to,
submitting applications for disposition of the sites to the applicable owner entities and/or other
requisite approvals from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity
(formerly the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs).
RESOLUTION NO: 2005-CHA-24
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 15, 2005, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO TAKE
ACTIONS AND EXECUTE DOCUMENTS AS ARE NECESSARY OR
APPROPRIATE TO ASSEMBLE FINANCING AND ESTABLISH THE
PROGRAM FOR THE REHABILITATION OF HARRISON COURTS,
LATHROP ELDERLY AND LOOMIS COURTS AND TO ESTABLISH
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES TO ACT AS GENERAL PARTNERS IN
OWNERSHIP ENTITIES IN CONNECTION THEREWITH, AND
RATIFICATION OF PRIOR ACTIONS PERTAINING THERETO”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes and ratifies the creation of three limited
liability companies (the “LLC’s”), each to act as general partner of limited
partnership owner entities in connection with the rehabilitation and operation of
Harrison Courts, Lathrop Elderly and Loomis Courts, and in which CHA will be
the sole member; and

THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, and/or his or her
designee is authorized to take such actions and negotiate, enter into, and execute
such documents on behalf of the CHA (including, but not limited to, on behalf of
the CHA as member of such LLC’s) as may be necessary or appropriate to
assemble financing, develop, and establish the rehabilitation program for Loomis
Courts, Harrison Courts, and Lathrop Elderly, including but not limited to
submission of applications for disposition of the sites to the applicable owner
entities and mortgage insurance applications, and any and all prior actions
pertaining thereto are hereby ratified.

THAT,

the foregoing authorizations shall be subject to the following:
1. The three LLC’s and the three limited partnership owner entities shall
constitute legal entities separate and distinct from the CHA.
2. The debts, obligations and undertakings of each limited liability company and
each limited partnership owner entity shall be payable and/or satisfied solely
from the assets and resources of the respective LLC and limited partnership
owner entity, as applicable, and neither CHA, the State of Illinois or any other
political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall be liable or responsible,
directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such debt,
obligation or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or
agreement of any kind whatsoever of any LLC or limited partnership owner
entity.

10

 No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of any debt, obligation or undertaking of
any LLC or any limited partnership owner entity against any commissioner, member, officer,
employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present or future, of CHA, to the maximum
extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or
otherwise
(Item C2)
The Plan for Transformation was approved by HUD and incorporated into a Moving to Work
(MTW) Agreement that was executed on February 6, 2000. The MTW Agreement provides
guidelines on the content and submission requirements for the CHA to produce and submit an
Annual Report to HUD outlining the progress toward commitments made in the original Plan for
Transformation and each Annual Plan. The Resolution for Item C2 approves submission of the
FY2004 MTW Annual Report to HUD. This report provides information necessary for HUD to
assess the CHA’s performance in both day-to-day operations and activities authorized by the
MTW Demonstration Program. HUD requires this report to be submitted annually, along with a
Board of Commissioners’ resolution approving this report, no later than 60 days after the end of
the CHA’s fiscal year (March 01, 2005).
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-25
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 14,
2005, requesting approval of the “FY2004 MTW Annual Report,” attached
hereto:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached “FY2004 MTW
Annual Report” and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer to make
such corrections as he may deem necessary; approve final changes, including
changes based on HUD requirements; and submit the report to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development. Such approval shall constitute
conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 