September 9, 2015

Item No. 3

RECOMMENDATION TO APPROVE CHA’S
PROPOSED FY2016 MOVING TO WORK ANNUAL PLAN
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached FY2016 Moving to
Work (MTW) Annual Plan and grant authorization to submit the document to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for approval.
The Chief of Staff, MTW Policy and Reporting Department and the Office of the General Counsel,
have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of this initiative and
recommend the approval of this item accordingly.
CORPORATE GOAL
Submission of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan fulfills CHA’s annual reporting requirements
and supports CHA’s goal of continued successful compliance with the obligations of HUD’s Moving
to Work Demonstration Program. The Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan supports the
implementation of Plan Forward initiatives and CHA’s ongoing efforts to pursue the three statutory
objectives of the MTW Demonstration Program.
FUNDING: Not applicable.
GENERAL BACKGROUND
CHA and HUD signed the original Moving to Work (MTW) Agreement on February 6, 2000 which
allowed CHA to implement the original Plan for Transformation. CHA’s Amended and Restated
MTW Agreement with HUD was fully executed on June 26, 2008 which extended CHA’s
participation in the MTW Demonstration Program through FY2018.
In April 2013, CHA unveiled a new strategic plan, Plan Forward: Communities that Work, which
outlines the agency’s newly articulated mission and strategic goals that will guide CHA’s current
and future work. As CHA implements Plan Forward initiatives, the agency will continue to pursue
the three statutory objectives of the MTW Demonstration Program:
 MTW Statutory Objective I: Increase housing choices for low-income families.
 MTW Statutory Objective II: Give incentives to families with children where the head of
household is working, seeking work, or is preparing for work by participating in job training,
educational programs, or programs that assist people to obtain employment and become
economically self-sufficient.
 MTW Statutory Objective III: Reduce costs and achieve greater cost effectiveness in federal
expenditures.

 As part of the MTW Agreement, CHA is required to submit an Annual Plan to HUD, due 75 days
prior to the start of CHA’s fiscal year. The MTW Annual Plan provides required information on
planned operations and activities for the fiscal year, including proposed new MTW activities that
require HUD approval. In May 2013, HUD issued a revised Form 50900 (Attachment B to the
Amended and Restated MTW Agreement) which outlines new requirements for the content of
MTW Annual Plans/Reports and for tracking the impact of MTW activities. CHA continues to work
with HUD to ensure compliance with the new Form 50900.
Prior to submission of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan to the Board, a 30-day public
comment period was conducted from July 22 through August 21, 2015. Announcements for the
public comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the Chicago Defender (July 22 and July
29) and Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy newspapers (July 22- 24 and July 27-28). CHA also distributed
resident notices across public housing properties and sent an email notification to HCV
participants.
During the public comment period, both residents and the public alike were able to submit
comments orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in the Proposed FY2016 MTW
Annual Plan. CHA held three public hearings during the comment period, on July 29, August 5, and
August 6, 2015. Prior to finalizing the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan, CHA gave consideration
to comments received during the public comment period.
CHA has complied with the requirements of the Amended and Restated MTW Agreement and
HUD regulations regarding annual plans and amendments. The deadline for submitting the
Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan to HUD is October 16, 2015.
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) regulations.
The Chief of Staff concurs with the recommendation to approve the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual
Plan.
The CEO recommends the approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan and submission to
HUD by the deadline of October 16, 2015.
Based upon the foregoing, it is recommended that the Board approve the Proposed FY2016 MTW
Annual Plan and grant authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the Board Chairperson, or their
designee to approve any final updates as deemed necessary to submit the Proposed FY2016 MTW
Annual Plan to HUD for approval by the deadline of October 16, 2015.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9, 2015
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan, attached hereto;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the FY2016 MTW Annual Plan, and the form,
Certifications of Compliance with Regulations from Attachment B to the Amended and
Restated MTW Agreement.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to approve any final changes to the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan. Such approval shall
constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

THAT

this approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan supersedes any and all conflicting
language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2016
MTW Annual Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development by the
deadline of October 16, 2015.

3

 