MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 16, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
May 16, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at the Caroline Hedger Apartments (formerly Sheridan/Devon Apts.),
6400 N. Sheridan, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
for some time now he has been saying that the CHA is on a path to creating a new national
model of public housing. Mixed-income communities combined with other public and private
investments represent the building blocks of strong-healthy neighborhoods. Mr. Peterson
continued by saying that he had a chance to tell the CHA story to Congress and it was very-well
received. They understood that CHA’s plan is ambitious and visionary. Issues discussed
according to Mr. Peterson, included the importance of steady funding and flexibility from rules
and regulations, continued Congressional support to rebuild public housing and provide more of
the residents with opportunities to succeed. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by informing the
public at large that in about four weeks Chicago will host the national organization of public
housing executives and once again CHA’s hard work will be on display for the whole world to
see. Participants will be taken on tours, introduced to residents and community leaders, and will
be shown how neighborhoods are being rebuilt.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session. Chairperson Gilliam then presented
a Motion to approve resolutions for Executive Items 1 through 6.
1

 Per the Chairperson, due to a prior engagement, Commissioner Ponce had to depart.

Executive Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 1, 2006 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for April 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
April 2006.

Executive Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 9, 2006,
entitled “Approval of Reimbursement Arrangement between the City of Chicago
and the Chicago Housing Authority”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority to
reimburse the City of Chicago for salary and benefits paid to the Chief Executive
Officer for the period January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007.

Executive Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$199,999.99 in the matter of The Estate of Nina Pittman v. CHA, et al, 04 L 7747;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $199,999.99 in the case of The
Estate of Nina Pittman v. CHA, et al., 04 L 7747.

Executive Item 4
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$500,000.00 in the matter of The Estate of DaMontae Harris v. CHA, et al, 02 L
3450;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $500,000.00 in the case of The
Estate of DaMontae Harris v. CHA, et al., 02 L 3450, pursuant to which, the
CHA will pay $500,000 or its Self-Insured Retention.

Executive Item 5
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 27, 2006,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which
Mt. McKinley Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of $400,000 in
the matter Mt. McKinley Insurance Company v. CHA, et al., 04 CH 12868, for the
2

 termination of the CHA’s rights under the insurance policy provided by Mt.
McKinley to the CHA,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which Mt. McKinley Insurance
Company will pay the CHA the amount of $400,000 in exchange for the
termination of the CHA’s rights under the insurance policy provided by Mt.
McKinley as part of a settlement of the case of Mt. McKinley Insurance Company
v. CHA, et al., 04 CH 12868.

Executive Item 6
Commissioner Ponce recused from voting on Executive Item 6 only:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006,
regarding authorization to amend the contract amount with Holland & Knight in
connection with K.R. Miller Contractors, Inc. v. Chicago Housing Authority, 04
CH 16155;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 5159 with Holland & Knight to increase the
amount of fees for the case known as K.R. Miller Contractors, Inc. v. Chicago
Housing Authority, 04 CH 16155, in an additional amount not to exceed $200,000
in order to pay for legal fees and expenses under the contract.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 through 6 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Halie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce (Recused from voting on Item 6 only)
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, May 10th at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The Chief
Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury Report for the month
of April 2006, First Quarter Financial Report and Grant Progress Report as of March 31, 2006.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for
Items A1 through A6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 authorizes the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or the Chief
Financial Officer to execute and deliver the Master Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture, the
Bonds, the Bond Purchase Agreement and other documentation necessary to issue and sell not
more than $315,000,000 principal amount of the CHA Capital Program Revenue Refunding
3

 Bonds, Series 2006. The Chicago Housing Authority has undertaken to transform public
housing in the City of Chicago. The Authority’s Plan for Transformation contemplates largescale capital improvements to upgrade the Authority’s inventory of housing units, including, the
demolition of approximately 18,000 obsolete housing units and the rehabilitation and
construction of approximately 25,000 housing units. In connection with the implementation of
the Program, the Authority has previously issued its Capital Program Revenue Bonds, Series
2001 the purpose of which was to fund Program improvements by leveraging anticipated future
capital funding revenues. The Bonds will be issued to refund the Series 2001 Bonds in order to
restructure the Authority’s debt service obligations. The Bonds will be issued pursuant to the
Master Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture. The Bonds will be secured solely by a pledge
of the Revenues and other moneys, securities and property from time to time held by the Trustee
under the Master Indenture.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-63
RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO EXCEED
$315,000,000 AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF CAPITAL
PROGRAM REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 2006, OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY, AND AUTHORIZING THE SALE
THEREOF; AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF A
MASTER TRUST INDENTURE, A FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL TRUST
INDENTURE, AN ESCROW AGREEMENT, A TAX EXEMPTION
CERTIFICATE AND AGREEMENT, A BOND PURCHASE
AGREEMENT, AND A CONTINUING DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING;
AND AUTHORIZING THE PREPARATION, EXECUTION AND
DISTRIBUTION OF A PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT AND AN
OFFICIAL STATEMENT; AND RELATED MATTERS.
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body corporate
and politic, duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
Illinois (the “Authority”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois, including, without
limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1, et seq. (the “Act”) and all laws
amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt
Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1, et seq., as amended, to acquire and dispose of improved or
unimproved property, to remove unsanitary or substandard conditions, to construct and operate
housing accommodations, to regulate the maintenance of housing projects and to borrow,
expend, loan, invest, and repay monies for the purposes set forth in the Act and such powers are
public objects and governmental functions essential to the public interest; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has the power to issue its revenue bonds to finance in whole or
in part the cost of acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, alteration,
extension or repair of any project or undertaking pursuant to the Act and to secure such bonds by
pledges of its revenues, or in any other manner; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has the power to issue refunding bonds for the purpose of
paying or retiring bonds previously issued by it; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority
desires to authorize the issuance and sale of not to exceed $315,000,000 aggregate principal
amount of its Capital Program Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2006 (the “Bonds”), which
Bonds shall be secured by Revenues and Bond proceeds or income from the temporary
investment thereof, as provided in the Indenture (as hereinafter defined); and
WHEREAS, the Bonds are not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or
the State or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority and no city, village,
incorporated town or country, or the State or any political subdivision thereof (other than the
Authority as provided in the Indenture) will be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Bonds be
payable out of any funds or properties other than those of the Authority pledged pursuant to the
Indenture; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary, desirable and in the best interests of the Authority to
authorize the execution and delivery of the Indenture under which the Bonds will be issued and
secured; and
4

 WHEREAS, it is now necessary, desirable and in the best interests of the Authority to
authorize the execution and delivery of a Escrow Agreement with respect to the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary, desirable and in the best interests of the Authority to
authorize the execution and delivery of a Purchase Agreement with respect to the sale of the
Bonds; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary, desirable and in the best interests of the Authority to
authorize the execution and delivery of a Tax Exemption Certificate and Agreement with respect
to the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary, desirable and in the best interests of the Authority to
approve the preparation and distribution of a preliminary official statement and the execution and
distribution of an official statement in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, it is now necessary, desirable and in the best interest of the Authority to
authorize the execution and delivery of a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking with respect to the
Bonds; and
NOW THEREFORE, BE
AUTHORITY:
SECTION 1.

IT

RESOLVED

BY THE

COMMISSIONERS

OF THE

CHICAGO HOUSING

DEFINITIONS.

In this Resolution, each of the terms Act, Authority and Bonds shall have the meanings
ascribed to such terms in the Recitals and the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to such terms in this Section 1, unless the context otherwise requires:
“Authorized Officer” means the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority, or any other person authorized by resolution of the Authority to perform
the act or sign the document in question.
“Board Letter” means the Authority’s Board Letter relating to this Resolution and the
issuance of the Bonds.
“Capital Fund Program” means the federal housing assistance program established in
the year 1998 by the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act, amending Section 9(d) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. §1437g(d)), and all successor or replacement
federal programs pursuant to which the Authority receives funds for the purpose of public
housing modernization, renovation or rehabilitation, including without limitation, any program
under which the Authority receives capital funds for such purposes through the receipt of rental
payment from, or on behalf of, tenants.
“Continuing Disclosure Undertaking” means a continuing disclosure undertaking, in
form approved by an Authorized Officer, under which the Authority agrees to provide continuing
disclosure to investors pursuant to Section 15c2-12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement between the Authority and The Bank
of New York Trust Company, NA, as trustee for the Series 2001 Bonds in substantially the form
of Exhibit C attached hereto.
“Indenture” means the Master Indenture, as supplemented by the Supplemental
Indenture.
“Interest Payment Date” means January 1 and July 1 of each year commencing on the
date set forth in the Supplemental Indenture.
“Master Indenture” means the Master Trust Indenture between the Authority and the
Trustee in substantially the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.

5

 “Person” means any authorities, governmental agencies, private persons, firms or
corporations.
“Program” means the Capital Program component of the Authority’s Plan for
Transformation, as contemplated by the Moving to Work Demonstration Agreement, dated
February 6, 2000, between the Authority and the Department, as such Agreement is amended
and supplemented from time to time.
“Purchase Agreement” means the contract of purchase between the Authority and the
Senior Managing Underwriter, as representatives of the underwriters named therein, relating to
the issue, purchase and sale of the Bonds in form and substance acceptable to the Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority in substantially the form of Exhibit D attached hereto.
“Revenues” means all moneys received by the Trustee for deposit in the funds and
accounts established under this Indenture, other than moneys deposited into and held in the
Program Expense Fund.
“Senior Managing Underwriter” means Banc of America Securities LLC.
“Series 2001 Bonds” means the Authority’s outstanding Capital Program Revenue
Bonds, Series 2001.
“Supplemental Indenture” means the First Supplemental Trust Indenture between the
Authority and the Trustee in substantially the form of Exhibit B attached hereto.
“Tax Exemption Agreement” means an agreement between the Authority and the Trustee
containing requirements relating to the preservation of the tax-exempt status of the Bonds in
form and substance acceptable to the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority.
“Trustee” means the Trustee named in the Indenture.
SECTION 2.

PURPOSE AND DESCRIPTION OF THE BONDS.

(a) The form of the Bonds set forth in the Supplemental Indenture, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Master
Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, is hereby authorized and approved. The Bonds shall
be executed in the name and on behalf of the Authority by the manual or duly authorized
facsimile signature of the Chairman of the Board and countersigned by the manual or duly
authorized facsimile signature of the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority. No seal of the
Authority shall be required to be affixed, imprinted, engraved or otherwise reproduced thereon.
Any Authorized Officer of the Authority shall cause the Bonds, as so executed and attested, to be
delivered to the Trustee, for authentication. When the Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the
Authority in the manner contemplated by the Master Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and
this Resolution, they shall represent the approved form of Bonds of the Authority.
(b) The Bonds shall be designated “Chicago Housing Authority Capital Program
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2006,” provided that the Bonds may be issued in more than
one series and may bear such additional series designations as determined by an Authorized
Officer at the time of sale thereof. The Bonds shall bear interest at the rate or rates as provided
in the Supplemental Indenture, but in no event shall such rate or rates exceed 9.00% per annum.
Interest on the Bonds shall be payable on each Interest Payment Date as provided in the
Supplemental Indenture. The Bonds shall mature on such dates as provided in the Supplemental
Indenture, but in no event later than July 1, 2028. The Bonds shall be subject to redemption as
provided in the Indenture. The Bonds may be redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the
Authority, in whole or in part on any date, at such times and at such redemption prices (to be
expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of such Bonds being redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the date of redemption), as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer at the time of
the sale thereof. The Bonds may be made subject to sinking fund redemption, at par and accrued
interest to the date fixed for redemption, as determined by an Authorized Officer at the time of
the sale thereof; provided, that such Bonds shall reach final maturity not later than the date set
forth herein.

6

 (c) The Bonds, together with the interest thereon, are not general obligations of the
Authority but are limited and special obligations payable solely from the Revenues, Bond
proceeds and income and gains from the investment of Bond proceeds, and any other amounts
pledged pursuant to the Indenture. The Bonds are not a debt of any city, village, incorporated
town or county, or the State or any political subdivision thereof (other than the Authority as
provided in the Indenture) and no city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State or any
political subdivision thereof other than the Authority will be liable thereon.
(d) The Bonds shall be issued as “Senior Obligations” under the Indenture and shall
have a pari passu lien on the trust estate described in the Master Indenture with any future Senior
Obligations issued on a parity with the Bonds under the Master Indenture. The Bonds are being
issued generally to provide funds to the Authority to refund the Series 2001 Bonds, to fund a
debt service reserve fund or the purchase of a debt service reserve surety instrument for the
Bonds, and to pay the costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds, all subject to the
limitations and provisions contained in the Act and the Master Indenture. Proceeds of the Bonds
shall be invested and applied as set forth in the Indenture. The Authority expressly authorizes, to
the extent permitted by applicable law, the use of forward supply agreements, investment
agreements, guaranteed investment contracts or similar agreements or contracts in connection
with the investment of the proceeds of the Bonds.
SECTION 3.

PLEDGE OF FEDERAL CAPITAL GRANT PAYMENTS TO SECURE BONDS.

The Board hereby affirms the authorization of the execution of the Master Indenture and
the pledge by the Authority to the Trustee of moneys to be received by the Authority from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the Capital Fund
Program as security for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the
Bonds.
SECTION 4.

AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS AND AUTHORITY DOCUMENTS.

The Authority is hereby authorized to enter into the Master Indenture, the Supplemental
Indenture, the Escrow Agreement and the Purchase Agreement in substantially the same forms
thereof now before the Authority and is authorized to enter into the Tax Exemption Agreement
and the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking, all in form approved by an Authorized Officer
(collectively, the “Authority Documents”) with the other parties thereto. The form, terms and
provisions of the Master Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture, the Escrow Agreement and the
Purchase Agreement are in all respects approved. Each Authorized Officer of the Authority is
authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver and, if required, to attest and to affix
the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority Documents in the name, for and on behalf of
the Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority Documents to be executed, acknowledged
and delivered to the other parties thereto. When the Authority Documents are executed and
delivered on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove provided, such Authority Documents shall
be binding on the Authority. The Board Letter and Authority Documents shall constitute, and
hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the final forms of the Board Letter and
the Authority Documents shall be placed in the official records of the Authority following the
issuance of the Bonds, and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Authority.
SECTION 5.

AUTHORIZATION TO SELECT UNDERWRITERS/SALE OF BONDS.

Subject to the limitations contained in this Resolution, authority is hereby delegated to
any Authorized Officer to approve the sale of the Bonds to the Senior Managing Underwriter, as
representative of a group of underwriters to be approved by the Chief Financial Officer, at a
purchase price (which shall not be less than 97% of the principal amount of the Bonds, without
regard to any net original issue discount relating to the sale of the Bonds) and subject to the
terms and conditions relating to authorized denomination, registration, transfer and redemption
of such Bonds as set forth in the Supplemental Indenture and the Purchase Agreement.
SECTION 6.

OFFICIAL STATEMENT.

The preparation and distribution of a preliminary official statement and preparation,
execution (by an Authorized Officer) and distribution of an official statement by the
7

 Underwriters, is hereby authorized. Such preliminary official statement shall be in substantially
the same form as is now before the Authority. Any Authorized Officer is authorized,
empowered and directed to execute an official statement in substantially the same form as the
preliminary official statement, but with appropriate variations to reflect the final terms of the
Bonds.
SECTION 7.

CHANGES TO INDENTURE.

There is hereby delegated to each Authorized Officer executing the Master Indenture and
the Supplemental Indenture as provided above, the power to approve any final changes from the
forms of such documents submitted herewith and approved hereby, the execution thereof to
constitute conclusive evidence of their approval of any and all changes or revisions from the
form or forms of the Master Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture approved hereby.
SECTION 8.

ACC AMENDMENT.

The proper Authorized Officer or officers are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver an amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract No. 1014 in order to facilitate
the issuance of the bonds.
SECTION 9.

CALL OF THE SERIES 2001 BONDS; PURCHASE OF ESCROW SECURITIES.

In accordance with the redemption provisions of the trust indenture under which the
Series 2001 Bonds were issued, the Authority by this Board hereby makes provision for the
payment of and does hereby call (subject only to the delivery of the Bonds), the Series 2001
Bonds maturing on and after July 1, 2013 for redemption and payment prior to maturity on
July 1, 2012. The Authority expressly authorizes the use of the Government Securities as set
forth in the Escrow Agreement, and the Senior Managing Underwriter and the trustee for the
Series 2001 Bonds be and the same are each hereby authorized to act as agent for the Authority
in the purchase of such Government Securities. In addition, the Authority expressly authorizes,
to the extent permitted by applicable law, the use of one or more forward supply contracts in
connection with the purchase of such Government Securities.
SECTION 10.

FURTHER ASSURANCES.

Any Authorized Officer of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and
directed to do any and all things necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the
Authority under and pursuant to this Resolution and is hereby further authorized, empowered
and directed for and on behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents,
certificates and other instruments that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by
this Resolution or as may be required in connection with the execution, delivery and
performance of the Authority Documents, the Bonds and the distribution of the preliminary
official statement and official statement authorized by this Resolution.
SECTION 11.

RATIFICATION OF PRIOR ACTS.

All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are in conformity
with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all respects,
ratified, approved and confirmed.
SECTION 12.

REGISTRATION/BOOK-ENTRY.

The Bonds shall initially be issued in book-entry form and registered in the name of The
Depository Trust Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities
depository. Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute
(and any Authorized Officer is authorized to attest) and deliver an agreement with DTC in order
to effect such book-entry registration.

8

 SECTION 13.

SEVERABILITY

The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if any section,
phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of this Resolution.
SECTION 14.

CONFLICTS.

All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby superseded to
the extent of such conflict.
SECTION 15.
EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage, as by law
provided.
(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the financing plan and related financing documents needed
to close the transaction for the rehabilitation of Britton Budd Apartments. Britton Budd
Apartments located at 501 West Surf Street in Chicago was constructed in 1917 and acquired by
CHA in the 1950’s. The Property is located in the Lakeview Historic District and is registered as
a National Register Historic District. This Senior designated apartment building is eleven stories
high and currently contains 173 public housing units which will be converted, in whole or in
part, to Project-Based Section-8 upon satisfactory completion of rehabilitation. The scope of
work includes the replacement of the building’s infrastructure systems. The renovation of each of
the building’s 173 units will included the repair and/or replacement of walls, ceiling and floors.
New kitchen and bathroom cabinets, fixtures and appliances will be installed. Finish carpentry
will include the repair/replacement of doors and trim. Each unit will be provided with fan coils
for the individual operation of HVAC. New telephone and cable television wiring and devices
will be installed. Upon unit renovation completion, 10 units will be designated as ADA
accessible and four additional units as accessible for the visually and hearing impaired. Exterior
renovation includes the replacement of all doors and windows and the repairs to the terra cotta
façade. To facilitate the renovation of Britton Budd, a multi-tiered financing approach will be
utilized. The CHA will sell the Britton Budd Apartments property to a tax-credit limited
partnership. In addition, CHA will finance the purchase price through seller financing. CHA
will issue tax-exempt bonds for permanent and interim bridge financing. CHA funds will be
used to make a loan to the Owner to finance a portion of the rehab costs. Other sources in this
financing plan include, tax credit equity, including Low Income Housing and Historical
Preservation Tax credits and deferred developer fee.
FINANCING RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-64
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq., as
amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Britton Budd Apartments, a 173unit a senior designated public housing property (the “Property”), located at 501 West Surf, in
the City of Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Operating Subsidy and
Capital Fund programs, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to provide
proper maintenance and repair; and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the
rehabilitation of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable
to sell and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the low-income housing tax credit program and the historic tax credit program pursuant to
the provisions and requirements of Sections 42 and 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”) and to convert the property, in whole or in part, from public housing to
project-based Section 8 housing; and

9

 WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been
reduced or eliminated, the federal low-income housing tax credit program has remained a critical
component of the federal government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated entities
in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the federal low-income housing
tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, Surf Senior Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Owner”), has been formed by the Authority to own and operate the Property so as to be able to
benefit from the availability of low-income housing tax credits, historic preservation tax credits
and FHA mortgage insurance; and
WHEREAS, Surf Housing Development, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the
“General Partner”), has been formed by the Authority to serve as the general partner of the
Owner; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Property
constitutes “multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and the financing thereof
will meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Local Government Debt
Reform Act, 30 ILCS 305/1 et seq. (the “Debt Reform Act”), the Authority is authorized to issue
its bonds for the purposes provided herein; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lend certain moneys to the Owner as described in Part I
below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will sell the Property to Owner and make a loan to the Owner
to finance a portion of the purchase price of the Property, as described in Part I below; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will issue the 2006 Bonds (as herein defined) as described in
Part II below;
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing
Authority:
PART I
Approval of Conversion of Property and Sale of Property and CHA Financing to Owner
Section 1.01 Conversion from Public Housing to Project-Based Section 8 and Approval
of Public Housing Documents and Submissions. The conversion of the Britton Budd property
from public housing to project-based Section 8, in whole or in part, including the submission to
HUD of a conversion plan, is hereby approved and ratified. With respect to units that are not
converted and remain public housing, if any, the Authority is hereby authorized to enter into a
Regulatory and Operating Agreement with the Owner to provide operating subsidy. The
Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver such other documents or instruments as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement public housing requirements, including but not
limited to, a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants and Mixed-Finance Amendment to the
Consolidated Annual Contributions Contract, and to make such submissions to HUD (or seek
such waivers) as may be necessary or appropriate in connection therewith, including but not
limited to, a mixed-finance proposal, evidentiaries, and a disposition application (such
documents and submissions are collectively referred to as “Public Housing Documents”).
The Designated Officers of the Authority (or any of them) are hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Public Housing Documents on behalf of the Authority.
Section 1.02 Sale and Transfer of Property. The sale and transfer of the Property to the
Owner for a purchase price of not less than $4,000,000 is hereby approved in all respects.

10

 Section 1.03 Master Real Estate Sale Contract. The form of Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Master Real Estate Sale Contract”) presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A, is approved in substantially the form presented to
this
meeting, and the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, or Chief Financial Officer (the “Designated
Officers”) of the Authority are authorized to execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale
Agreement on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this meeting,
together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the officer of the Authority
executing the same, his or her approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s
approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 1.04 Section 8 Contract. The Authority is hereby authorized to enter into a
Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments (the “HAP Contract”) (and an Agreement to enter into a
Housing Assistance Payments Contract (the “AHAP”)) with Owner to provide project-based
voucher assistance with respect to all or any part of the Property and the Designated Officers of
the Authority are authorized to execute and deliver the HAP (and the AHAP) on behalf of the
Authority. The Designated Officers are authorized to renew the Section 8 Contracts as
authorized by HUD.
Section 1.05 Approval of CHA Seller Financing Loan. As provided in the Master Real
Estate Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A, the Authority shall provide seller financing
to the Owner. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to pay the purchase price of the Property
to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver a promissory note, in an amount not to
exceed $5,000,000 and bearing interest at the Applicable Federal Rate (as defined in the Code)
for a term not to exceed 45 years.
Section 1.06 Approval of CHA Loan. The Authority shall make a loan to the Owner,
subject to any necessary HUD approval. To evidence the obligation of the Owner to repay the
loan to the Authority, the Owner shall execute and deliver one or more promissory notes, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 and bearing interest at zero percent per annum for a
term not to exceed 45 years. To secure the obligation of the Owner under the note, the Owner
shall execute and deliver one or more subordinate mortgages on the Property and other security
documents.
PART II
Approval of Permanent Bond and Bridge Bond Financing
Section 2.01 Authorization of Long-Term Bonds and Bridge Bonds. There are hereby
authorized to be issued as herein provided not to exceed (a) $8,823,750 aggregate principal
amount of Chicago Housing Authority Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2006A
(Britton Budd Apartments) (the “Long-Term Bonds”), and (b) $15,125,000 aggregate principal
amount of Chicago Housing Authority Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2006B
(Britton Budd Apartments) (the “Bridge Bonds”, and collectively with the Long-Term Bonds,
the “2006 Bonds”).
Section 2.02 Forms of Long-Term Bond Documents.
There have been presented to
this Board, forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the
“Long-Term Bond Documents”):
Exhibit
B

Document
Trust Indenture (“Long-Term
Bond Indenture”)

C

Financing Agreement

D

Regulatory Agreement and
Declaration of Restrictive
Covenants
Long-Term Bonds Tax
Agreement

E

11

Other Party
J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National
Association, as
Trustee
Owner, Trustee and
Prairie Mortgage
Company, as
Lender
Trustee and Owner

Owner

 Section 2.03 Forms of Bridge Bond Documents. There have also been presented to this
Board, forms of the following documents (such documents collectively referred to as the “Bridge
Bond Documents”):
Exhibit
F
G
H

Document
Trust Indenture (“Bridge
Bond Indenture”)
Loan and Financing
Agreement
Bridge Bond Tax Agreement

Other Party
J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
N.A., as Trustee
Owner
Owner

Section 2.04 Authorization of Long-Term Bonds. For the purpose of providing funds
to pay, or to reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the rehabilitation
of the Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of not to exceed $8,823,750
aggregate principal amount of the Long-Term Bonds. The Long-Term Bonds shall be dated,
shall mature on such dates (not beyond January 1, 2048) shall be in such principal amounts, shall
bear interest at such rate or rates, not to exceed six percent (6%) per annum, shall be payable on
such dates, all as shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, at
the time of the execution and delivery of the Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement (as
hereinafter described). The Long-Term Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity
upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture as executed and delivered by the
Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.05 Source of Payment of Long-Term Bonds. The Long-Term Bonds,
together with interest thereon shall be secured by the GNMA Securities (as defined in the LongTerm Bond Indenture) and shall be payable solely from the revenues and receipts derived from
the GNMA Securities as provided in the Long-Term Bond Indenture (except to the extent paid
out of moneys attributable to the Long-Term Bond proceeds and other funds established under
the Long-Term Bond Indenture or the income from the temporary investment thereof), and shall
be a valid claim of the owners thereof only against the funds and other moneys held by the
Trustee and the revenues and receipts derived from the GNMA Securities under the Long-Term
Bond Indenture.
Section 2.06 Limited Obligations of the Authority. The Long-Term Bonds and the
interest thereon are limited, not general, obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the
Trust Estate under the Long-Term Bond Indenture. The Long-Term Bonds are not a debt of any
city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision
thereof other than the Authority, and no city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in
any event shall the Long-Term Bonds be payable by the Authority out of any funds or properties
other than those of the Authority pledged pursuant to the Long-Term Bond Indenture. The
Long-Term Bonds do not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or
statutory debt limitation or restriction. Neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the
United States of America, the Authority, the City, the State of Illinois or any other political
subdivision thereof is pledged to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on
the Long-Term Bonds or other costs incident thereto. The Long-Term Bonds are not a debt of
the United States of America or any agency thereof, and are not guaranteed by the United States
of America or any agency thereof.
Section 2.07 Execution and Delivery of Long-Term Bonds. The Long-Term Bonds
shall be executed on behalf of the Authority in the manner provided in the Long-Term Bond
Indenture. If any of the officers who shall have signed or sealed any of said Long-Term Bonds
shall cease to be such officers of the Authority before the Long-Term Bonds so signed and sealed
shall have been actually authenticated by the Trustee or delivered by the Authority, such LongTerm Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated, issued and delivered with the same force and
effect as though the person or persons who signed or sealed such Long-Term Bonds had not
ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority; and also any such Long-Term Bonds may
be signed and sealed on behalf of the Authority by those persons who, at the actual date of the
execution of such Long-Term Bonds, shall be the officers of the Authority so designated in the
Long-Term Bond Indenture, although at the nominal date of such Long-Term Bonds any such
person shall not have been such officer of the Authority.

12

 Section 2.08 Approval of Long-Term Bond Documents. The forms of the Long-Term
Bond Documents presented to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary
and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority shall be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to
execute and deliver the Long-Term Bond Documents with such changes, insertions and
completions therein as shall be approved by such persons executing such documents (subject to
the limitations set forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of such changes, insertions and completions, and the Secretary or any Assistant
Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to affix to the Long-Term Bond Documents the
corporate seal of the Authority. Such officers are further authorized and directed to execute such
instruments, agreements and documents as may be required by HUD or FHA in connection with
the Mortgage Loan (as defined in the Long-Term Bond Indenture) or the GNMA Securities.
Section 2.09 Sale of Long-Term Bonds. (a) The Long-Term Bonds shall be sold and
delivered to, or upon the direction of, one or more underwriters (the “Underwriters”) selected by
the Chief Financial Officer, subject to the terms and conditions of a bond purchase agreement
related to the Long-Term Bonds (the “Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement”). The Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute and deliver on behalf of the
Authority the Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit I with appropriate revisions to reflect the terms and provisions of the Long-Term Bonds,
and with such other revisions in text as the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer
shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Long-Term Bonds.
The execution of the Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement by the Chief Executive Officer or
Chief Financial Officer shall be deemed conclusive evidence of the approval of this Board of the
terms provided in the Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement. The compensation paid to the
Underwriters in connection with the sale of the Bonds shall not exceed 3 percent of their
aggregate principal amount. In connection with the offer and delivery of the Long-Term Bonds,
the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers of the Authority
as may be necessary, are authorized to execute and deliver such instruments and documents as
may be necessary to implement the transaction and to effect the issuance and delivery of the
Long-Term Bonds. Any limitation on the amount of Long-Term Bonds issued pursuant to this
Resolution as set forth herein shall be exclusive of any original issue discount or premium.
(b)
The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to
cause to be prepared the form of Preliminary Official Statement describing the Long-Term
Bonds. The Preliminary Official Statement shall be in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit J (with such modifications as may be necessary or appropriate to reflect the project-based
voucher program and/or the inclusion of public housing units, if any, in the development),
together with such changes thereto and modifications thereof as shall be approved by the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer. The distribution of the Preliminary Official
Statement to prospective purchasers and the use thereof by the Underwriters in connection with
the offering of the Long-Term Bonds are hereby authorized and approved. The Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to permit the distribution of a final
Official Statement, in substantially the form of the Preliminary Official Statement, with such
changes, omissions, insertions and revisions thereto and completions thereof as the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall deem advisable. The Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the final Official Statement
to the Underwriters in the name and on behalf of the Authority, the execution of such final
Official Statement to constitute conclusive evidence of the approval of such officer of such
changes and completions.
(c)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection with the sale of the
Long-Term Bonds a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to the authority
granted herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the proper exercise by
such person of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such certificate, the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the Secretary one copy of the
final Official Statement and the Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement in connection with the
Long-Term Bonds. Each filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to the execution
of the Long-Term Bond Purchase Agreement. The Secretary shall direct copies of such filings to
this Board.

13

 Section 2.10 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Long-Term Bonds
shall not be issued unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including
particularly the approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been fully
satisfied, and that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Long-Term Bonds shall be
executed or undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f) unless the
performance of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly conditioned upon the prior
satisfaction of such requirements. All such actions taken prior to the enactment of this
Resolution are hereby ratified and confirmed.
Section 2.11 Authorization of Bridge Bonds. For the purpose of providing additional
funds to pay, or to reimburse the Owner for the payment of, a portion of the costs of the
rehabilitation of the Property, the Authority does hereby authorize the issuance of the Bridge
Bonds, which shall be in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $15,125,000. The Bridge
Bonds shall be dated, shall mature on such dates (not beyond January 1, 2010) and in such
principal amount, and shall bear interest at such rate or rates, not to exceed 6.5 percent per
annum, and shall be payable on such dates, all as shall be approved by the Chief Executive
Officer or Chief Financial Officer at the time of the execution and delivery of the Bridge Bond
Purchase Agreement (as hereinafter described). The Bridge Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to maturity upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Bridge Bond
Indenture as executed and delivered by the Authority as herein provided.
Section 2.12 Source of Payment of Bridge Bonds. The Bridge Bonds, together with
interest thereon, shall be secured and payable solely as provided in the Bridge Bond Indenture,
and shall be a valid claim of the owner thereof only against the funds and other moneys held
under or pursuant to the Bridge Bond Indenture and the other pledge and security documents
executed and delivered in connection with the Bridge Bonds.
Section 2.13 Limited Obligations of Authority. The Bridge Bonds and the interest
thereon are limited, not general, obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the Trust
Estate under the Bridge Bond Indenture. The Bridge Bonds are not a debt of any city, village,
incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof other
than the Authority, and no city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or
any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority shall be liable thereon, nor in any event
shall the Bridge Bonds be payable by the Authority out of any funds or properties other than
those of the Authority pledged pursuant to the Bridge Bond Indenture. The Bridge Bonds do not
constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or
restriction. Neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the United States of America, the
Authority, the City, the State of Illinois or any other political subdivision thereof is pledged to
the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Bridge Bonds or other costs
incident thereto. The Bridge Bonds are not a debt of the United States of America or any agency
thereof, and is not guaranteed by the United States of America or any agency thereof.
Section 2.14 Execution and Delivery of Bridge Bonds. The Bridge Bonds shall be
executed on behalf of the Authority in the manner provided in the Bridge Bond Indenture. If any
of the officers who shall have signed or sealed the Bridge Bonds shall cease to be such officers
of the Authority before the Bridge Bonds so signed and sealed shall have been actually delivered
by the Authority, the Bridge Bonds nevertheless may be authenticated, issued and delivered with
the same force and effect as though the person or persons who signed or sealed the Bridge Bonds
had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Authority; and the Bridge Bonds may be
signed and sealed on behalf of the Authority by those persons who, at the actual date of the
execution of the Bridge Bonds, shall be the officers of the Authority designated in the Bridge
Bond Indenture, although at the nominal date of the Bridge Bonds any such person shall not have
been such officer of the Authority.
Section 2.15 Approval of Bridge Bonds Documents. The forms of the Bridge Bonds
Documents presented to this meeting are hereby approved. The Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute,
acknowledge and deliver the Bridge Bonds Documents, with such changes, insertions and
completions therein as shall be approved by such persons executing such documents (subject to
the limitations set forth herein), their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of such
approval, and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to affix
14

 to the Bridge Bonds Documents the corporate seal of the Authority. Such officers are further
authorized and directed to execute such instruments, agreements and documents as may be
required by the holder of the Bridge Bonds.
Section 2.16 Sale of Bridge Bonds. (a) The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer is hereby authorized to sell the Bridge Bonds to MuniMae TE Bond Subsidiary, a
Maryland limited liability company, (or other affiliate of MMA Financial, LLC), or its designee,
as contemplated by the Bridge Bonds Purchase Agreement presented to this meeting at a
purchase price of 100 percent of the principal amount thereof less an origination fee not to
exceed 1% of the principal amount of the Bridge Bonds.
(b)
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
or Chief Financial Officer by this Resolution, the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer is hereby directed to execute and file with the Secretary in connection with the sale of the
Bridge Bonds a certificate setting forth the determinations made pursuant to the authority granted
herein, which certificate shall constitute conclusive evidence of the proper exercise by such
person of such authority. Contemporaneously with the filing of such certificate, the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer shall also file with the Secretary one copy of the
Bridge Bond Documents as executed and delivered by the Authority. Such filing shall be made
as soon as practicable subsequent to the execution of the Bridge Bond Documents. The
Secretary shall direct copies of such filings to this Board.
Section 2.17 Public Hearing. This Board hereby directs that the Bridge Bonds shall not
be issued unless and until the requirements of Section 147(f) of the Code, including particularly
the approval requirement following any required public hearing, have been fully satisfied, and
that no contract, agreement or commitment to issue the Bridge Bonds shall be executed or
undertaken prior to satisfaction of the requirements of said Section 147(f) unless the performance
of said contract, agreement or commitment is expressly conditioned upon the prior satisfaction of
such requirements. All such actions taken prior to the enactment of this Resolution are hereby
ratified and confirmed.
PART III
Miscellaneous
Section 3.01 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement.
The form of Right of
First Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached
hereto as Exhibit K is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the
officers of the Authority designated in the Right of First Refusal Agreement are authorized to
execute and deliver the Right of First Refusal Agreement on behalf of the Authority in
substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with such changes and revisions as
shall be approved by the officers of the Authority executing the same, their approval to constitute
conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 3.02 Investment Agreements. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized and directed to execute investment agreements
covering all or a portion of the proceeds of the 2006 Bonds and other amounts held under the
Long-Term Bond Indenture or the Bridge Bond Indenture. Any such agreement shall constitute
a permitted investment under Illinois law.
Section 3.03 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No
recourse shall be had for the payment of principal of or interest on any of the 2006 Bonds, or for
any claim based on the 2006 Bonds, or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this
Resolution contained against any past, present or future commissioner, officer, director, member,
employee or agent of the Authority, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either
directly or through the Authority or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or
equity, statute, ordinance or constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, and all such liability of any such commissioners, officers, directors, members,
employees or agents as such is expressly waived and released by this Resolution as a condition
of and consideration for the passage of this Resolution and the issuance of such 2006 Bonds.

15

 Section 3.04 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary
of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do any and all things
necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority under and pursuant to this
Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever nature necessary to effect and carry
out the authority conferred by this Resolution, including, but not limited to, the exercise
following the delivery date of any of the 2006 Bonds of any power or authority delegated to such
official of the Authority under this Resolution with respect to the 2006 Bonds upon the initial
issuance thereof, but subject to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as
herein set forth. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive
Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other
officers, agents and employees of the Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and
directed for and on behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents,
certificates and other instruments that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by
this Resolution or to evidence said authority.
Section 3.05 Allocation of Volume Cap. In accordance with the provisions of
Section 146 of the Code, the Authority shall accept an allocation of volume cap from the City for
the purpose of the issuance of the 2006 Bonds. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
City relating to volume cap.
Section 3.06 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 3.07 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings of the
Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall supersede any
conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency.
Section 3.08 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.
(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 ratifies the formation of the Surf Housing Development, LLC and
Surf Senior Housing Limited Partnership with related documents needed to close the transaction
for the rehabilitation of Britton Budd Apartments. The purpose of the Partnership will be to
acquire, own, rehabilitate and operate Britton Budd. As set forth in the partnership agreement,
the LLC, as general partner, will be responsible for managing the affairs of the Partnership. The
LLC will also contract with the Partnership to provide development services, for which the LLC
will be paid a development fee. The LLC will guarantee to the limited partner and/or the
Partnership certain matters customary in tax credit transactions. However, such guarantees will
be satisfiable solely from the assets of the Partnership and LLC and not from the assets of the
CHA.
PROJECT RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) is a municipal corporation
and body politic and corporate organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, including without limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et. seq., as
amended (the “Act”); and
WHEREAS, the Authority currently owns and operates Britton Budd Apartments, a 173unit housing property for elderly and disabled persons (the “Property”), located at 501 West Surf,
in the City of Chicago (the “City”); and
WHEREAS, notwithstanding the availability of funds under the Operating Subsidy and
Capital Grant Funds, adequate funds have not been available to the Authority to provide proper
maintenance and repair of the Property, and
WHEREAS, after considering a number of alternative methods to finance the
rehabilitation of the Property, it was determined by the Authority to be necessary and advisable
16

 to sell and transfer the Property to a limited partnership legally capable of raising needed funds
under the federal low-income housing tax credit program and the federal historic rehabilitation
tax credit program (collectively, the “tax credit program”), pursuant to the provisions and
requirements of Sections 42 and 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”) and to convert the Property, in whole or in part, from public housing to Project-Based
Section 8 housing; and
WHEREAS, since 1986, as other federal low-income housing programs have been
reduced or eliminated, the tax credit program has remained a critical component of the federal
government’s assistance of affordable housing in the United States; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress in the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, has encouraged local housing agencies such as the Authority to form affiliated entities
in order to take advantage of the financial benefit provided by the tax credit program; and
WHEREAS, the rehabilitation will be financed in part with a FHA–insured mortgage
loan and FHA mortgage insurance requires that a separate special purpose borrowing entity be
established with respect to any FHA-insured mortgage loan; and
WHEREAS, Section 2 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all powers
necessary or appropriate in order to engage in the rehabilitation, development and redevelopment
of projects; and
WHEREAS, Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the Act; and
WHEREAS, Section 26 of the Act provides that it is the purpose and intent of the Act to
authorize the Authority to do any and all things necessary or desirable to secure the financial aid
or cooperation of the Federal government in the purchasing, acquiring, constructing,
maintaining, operating improving, extending and repairing of housing projects.
NOW THEREFORE, Be It Resolved, by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing
Authority:
PART I
Formation of LLC and Partnership
Section 1.01 Formation of LLC. The formation of Surf Housing Development, LLC,
an Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”), of which the Authority is the sole
member, is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects. The Chief Executive Officer and the
Chief Financial Officer of the Authority (the “Designated Officers”) are hereby authorized to
take all actions necessary to maintain the status of the General Partner as a limited liability
company under the laws of the State of Illinois.
Section 1.02 Operating Agreement. The form of Operating Agreement presented to
this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form presented to
this meeting.
Section 1.03 Formation of Partnership.
The formation of Surf Senior Housing
Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the “Owner”), is hereby ratified and
confirmed in all respects.
Section 1.04 Partnership Agreement. The original Partnership, which was formed
pursuant to a certificate of limited partnership, presented to this meeting and attached hereto as
Exhibit B, and an oral agreement (authorized under Illinois law) between the General Partner
and Terry Peterson, as the original limited partner, in his individual capacity and not in his
capacity as Chief Executive Officer of the Authority, (the “Partnership Agreement”), are hereby
approved. An amended and restated (written) partnership agreement, in the form approved by
the Designated Officer, providing for the replacement of the original limited partner with an
investor limited partner, is also hereby approved. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Partnership
Agreement on behalf of the General Partner.

17

 Section 1.05 Development Agreement.
The form of Development Services
Agreement presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit C is approved in
substantially the form presented to this meeting. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Development Agreement
on behalf of the Owner as well as on behalf of the General Partner.
Section 1.06 Section 8 Contract. The Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial
Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Agreement to enter into a
Housing Assistance Payments contract (the “AHAP”) and the Section 8 Housing Assistance
Payments contract (the “HAP Contract”) on behalf of the General Partner, with respect to all, or
a part of, the Property.
Section 1.07 Regulatory and Operating Agreement. The Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute and deliver a Regulatory
and Operating Agreement on behalf of the General Partner, with respect to such units that are not
converted and remain public housing, if any.
Section 1.08 No Liability of the Authority. The debts, obligations and undertakings of
the General Partner and the Owner shall be payable and/or satisfied solely from the assets and
resources of the General Partner and the Owner, as applicable, and neither the Authority, the
State of Illinois, the City or any other political subdivision of the State of Illinois shall be liable
or responsible, directly or indirectly, for the payment or satisfaction of any such debt, obligation
or undertaking, or for the performance of any pledge, obligation, or agreement of any kind
whatsoever of the General Partner or the Owner.
Section 1.09 No Recourse. No recourse shall be had for the payment or satisfaction of
any debt, obligation or undertaking of the General Partner or the Owner against any
commissioner, member, officer, employee, agent, counsel or director, as such, past, present or
future, of the Authority, to the maximum extent permitted by law, whether by virtue of any
constitution, statute, ordinance or rule of law, or otherwise.
PART II
Approval of Sale and Transfer of Property
Section 1.01. Section 2.01 Sale and Transfer of Property. The sale and transfer of the
Property to the Owner for a purchase price of not less than $5,000,000 is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 2.02 Purchase and Sale Agreement. The form of Purchase and Sale
Agreement with respect to the Property (the “Purchase and Sale Agreement”) presented to this
meeting and attached hereto as Exhibit D is approved in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, and the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is
authorized to execute and deliver the Master Real Estate Sale Agreement on behalf of the
General Partner and on behalf of the Authority in substantially the form presented to this
meeting, together with such changes and revisions as shall be approved by the Designated
Officer executing the same, such approval to constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s
approval of such changes and revisions.
Section 2.03 Approval of Right of First Refusal Agreement. The form of Right of First
Refusal Agreement with respect to the Property presented to this meeting and attached hereto as
Exhibit E is approved in substantially the form presented to this meeting, and the Chief
Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority is authorized to execute and deliver
the Right of First Refusal Agreement on behalf of the Owner and on behalf of the General
Partner in substantially the form presented to this meeting, together with such changes and
revisions as shall be approved by the Designated Officer executing the same, such approval to
constitute conclusive evidence of this Board’s approval of such changes and revisions.
PART III
Additional Approvals
Section 3.01 Development and Management of Property. The development and
operation of the Property by the Owner is hereby approved. In order to accomplish those
purposes, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate instruments and documents, including
18

 but not limited to, the construction contract, architect’s agreement and appropriate management
agreement. .
Section 3.02 Loan Transactions. In order to finance the costs of rehabilitating and
equipping the Property, the Owner shall execute and deliver appropriate documents, instruments,
mortgages and security instruments as may be required by the applicable lender.
Section 3.03 Tax-exempt Financing. It is recognized that the FHA-insured Mortgage
Loan and the Bridge Loan will be funded by CHA bonds, the interest on which is exempt from
federal income taxation under Section 142 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The Owner shall execute and deliver such documents and instruments as shall be required to
support the tax-exempt status of such CHA obligations.
Section 3.04. Housing Assistance Payment Contracts for Project-Based Voucher
Assistance. The Owner shall enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (and an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract as applicable) with the CHA for
the provision of project-based voucher assistance with respect to the Property for a term of ten
years (or such longer period as may be authorized by HUD) and is authorized to renew such
Section 8 contracts from time to time as authorized by the CHA or HUD.
PART IV
Section 4.01 Immunity of Officers, Employees and Members of Authority. No
recourse shall be had upon any obligation, covenant or agreement in this Resolution contained
against any past, present or future commissioner, officer, director, member, employee or agent of
the Authority, or of any successor public corporation, as such, either directly or through the
Authority or any successor public corporation, under any rule of law or equity, statute, ordinance
or constitution or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, and all such
liability of any such commissioners, officers, directors, members, employees or agents as such is
expressly waived and released by this Resolution as a condition of and consideration for the
passage of this Resolution.
Section 4.02 Performance Provisions. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary
of the Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to do any and all things
necessary to effect the performance of all obligations of the Authority under and pursuant to this
Resolution and the performance of all other acts of whatever nature necessary to effect and carry
out the authority conferred by this Resolution, including, but not limited to, the exercise of any
power or authority delegated to such official of the Authority under this Resolution, but subject
to any limitations on or restrictions of such power or authority as herein set forth. The
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive Advisor to the Board,
the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority and the other officers, agents and
employees of the Authority are hereby further authorized, empowered and directed for and on
behalf of the Authority, to execute and deliver all papers, documents, certificates and other
instruments that may be required to carry out the authority conferred by this Resolution or to
evidence said authority.
Section4.03 Severability. It is the intention of this Board that, if any Article, Section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall be ruled by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the invalidity of such Article, Section, paragraph, clause or provision
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions hereof.
Section 4.04 Prior Inconsistent Resolutions. If any provision of this Resolution is in
conflict with or inconsistent with any resolutions or parts of resolutions or the proceedings of the
Authority in effect as of the date hereof, the provisions of this Resolution shall supersede any
conflicting or inconsistent provision to the extent of such conflict or inconsistency.
Section 4.05 Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage as by law provided.

19

 (Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves award of contract to Fastech Inc. to maintain, monitor and
support Sun hardware and software. The Authority utilizes Sun hardware and software to
support internal and external communications and essential functions. Every CHA computer is
linked together via Sun hardware and software components, and critical applications such as
Electronic Mail, Relocation Management Tracking and CCS would be adversely affected should
the Sun components falter and the Authority is unable to recover in a timely manner. In
February 2006, an Invitation for Bid was issued. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers.
This IFB competitively solicited qualified firms and/or individuals who could provide Sun
maintenance to the CHA. Of the 8 proposals received and opened, 2 proposals were deemed nonresponsive because the vendors did not bid on all items in the maintenance list. Fastech, Inc.,
proposed the lowest responsive and responsible bid with a total price of $251,308.16 for the two
year base term, as well as comparatively favorable prices for the subsequent option terms relative
to other bids in general.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-66
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Fastech, Inc., for Sun
Maintenance”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Fastech, Inc. for Sun maintenance services
for a two (2) year base term with three (3) one-year option periods, for the firm
fixed price of $251,308.16 for the two (2) year base term, and for the firm fixed
prices of $128,181.22, $132,196.48, and $132,196.48 for each of the respective
and successive three (3) option years following the base term.

(Item A5)
The Authority has developed and is in the process of implementing applications based on an
Oracle centralized data warehouse. The centralized and secured data will provide the CHA with
access to reliable data on a real-time basis to support executive decision making. The services
included in the Oracle Support Agreement will include access to product enhancements,
upgrades and updates, as well as telephone support from qualified product technicians. In June of
2001, the ITS Department purchased Oracle products to replace many legacy computing systems
and to serve as the primary computing platform for the CHA Systems@Work. Following the
expiration of the initial maintenance and support term, support and maintenance services for the
Oracle products and applications were obtained directly from Oracle Corporation for subsequent
annual renewal terms. The latest maintenance and support term is due to expire in June, 2006.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 approves award of contract to Oracle Corporation for
database software and maintenance services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-67
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated May 9, 2006, titled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract
with Oracle Corporation for Oracle Database Software Support and
Maintenance”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Oracle Corporation for Maintenance and
Support Services for a one-year term for a total contract amount of $113,630.00.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves award of contract to Sentinel Technologies to maintain,
monitor and support Cisco hardware and software. The Authority utilizes Cisco software to
support internal and external communications and essential functions. In February 2006, an
Invitation for Bid was issued. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers.
This IFB
competitively solicited qualified firms and/or individuals who could provide Cisco maintenance
to the CHA. Of the 8 proposals received and opened, 2 proposals were deemed non-responsive
because the vendors bid on a 24-hour turn around maintenance instead of the 4 hour turn around
20

 time specified in the solicitation. Sentinel Technologies proposed the lowest responsible and
responsive bid with a total price of $410,265.00 for the 2 year base term, as well as the lowest
prices among those bids received for the 3 additional option years at the fixed price of
$208,736.00 per annum.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006
entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Sentinel Technologies for
Cisco Maintenance”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with a two (2) year base term with three (3) oneyear option periods with Sentinel Technologies for Cisco Maintenance, for the
firm fixed price of $410,265.00 for the two (2) year base term, and for the firm
fixed price of $208,736.00 per year for each of the three available option years.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Halie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, May 10, 2006 at approximately 1:45 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
At the request of staff, Item B7 was pulled from the Agenda, therefore, Commissioner Gates then
introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for Items B1 through B6
discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations & Facilities
Committee.
(Item B1)
In order to effectively complete all construction, rehabilitation and capital maintenance activities
outlined in the Plan for Transformation, the CHA requires professional Construction
Management Services that will establish a single point of accountability, implement an efficient
and comprehensive plan covering pre-construction, construction, and post-construction to ensure
on-time delivery of housing units; and impose tight fiscal guidelines, as well as delay claims and
change order protocols, to meet budget targets and constraints. These services are predicated
upon certain internal changes within the Capital Construction Division of the CHA and include
the elimination of certain redundant functions now being performed by the Managing Owner’s
Representative the Owner’s Representatives and others. Accordingly, a Request for Proposal was
advertised in February 2006 in area newspapers and on the CHA website. Sixty-seven firms were
directly solicited, including 27 MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the 4 Respondents who made
presentations before the Evaluation Committee and submitted a Best and Final Offer, Partnership
for Transformation provides the best overall combination of ability and cost. The resolution for
Item B1, therefore, approves a contract award to Partnership for Transformation.

21

 Due to scrivener’s error, the highlighted corrections were made to the following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 9, 2006
entitled “Authorization to award a contract to Partnership for Transformation for
Authority-wide Construction Management Services;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract for Authority-wide construction management
services to Partnership for Transformation in an amount not-to-exceed
$3,147,737.00 for the first year of the base period. The contract will have a two
(2) year base period, and two (2), one (1) year renewal options. This award is
subject to the firm’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
In March 2002 the Board approved the Development Agreement with the Lake Park Crescent I,
LLC for the Redevelopment of the Lakefront Properties site. Construction and lease-up has been
completed for the first rental phase, which consisted of 60 public housing units, 52 affordable
rental units, and 36 market rate rental units. The Development Agreement was subsequently
terminated in August 2005, and the scope of further development was renegotiated and revised to
limit construction to a portion of the site known as Lake Park Crescent Phase 1A For Sale
Development. This first phase of for-sale development will consist of 13 public housing units,
20 affordable for sale units, and 35 market rate for sale units. Lake Park Crescent Phase 1A For
Sale units will be developed within the Lakefront Properties Redevelopment site roughly
bounded by East 40th Street on the North, 41st Street on the South, Lake Park Avenue on the
West, and the Metra Rail Road on the East. As such, a portion of the development site will be
ground leased to the developer for a term of 99 years for the development of 58 units including
13 units to be reserved for public housing residents relocated from the former Lakefront
Properties site. The thirteen public housing units will consist of four one-bedroom, three twobedroom, and six three-bedroom units. The remaining portion of the site will be conveyed via
quit claim deed for the construction of 10 single family row-houses. The construction of Lake
Park Crescent Phase 1A For Sale is expected to begin in June 2006. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item B2 approves submittal of an acquisition application to HUD for the purchase of 13 units
at the Lake Park Crescent Phase IA For Sale and execution of all other documents necessary to
implement the foregoing.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated May 9, 2006
requesting authorization to: (i) submit an acquisition application to HUD for the
purchase of a leasehold interest in thirteen (13) units at the Lake Park Crescent
Phase IA For Sale site; (ii) enter into a Contract to Purchase a Leasehold Interest
with Lakefront Associates II, LLC; (iii) execute a Ground Lease and Quit Claim
Deed with Lakefront Associates I, LLC for the construction of the Lake Park
Crescent Phase IA For Sale development; and (iv) execute such other documents
as necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: (i) submit an acquisition application to HUD for the purchase of a
leasehold interest in thirteen (13) units at the Lake Park Crescent Phase IA For
Sale site; (ii) enter into a Contract to Purchase a Leasehold Interest with
Lakefront Associates II, LLC utilizing up to $2,186,454 in development program
or capital funds to purchase a leasehold interest in thirteen (13) units to be
designated as replacement units for former Lakefront Properties families; (iii)
execute a Ground Lease and Quit Claim Deed with Lakefront Associates I, LLC
for the construction of the Lake Park Crescent Phase IA For Sale sixty-eight unit
development, and (iv) authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute such other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing.
22

 (Item B3)
In March 2002, the Board approved entering into a Development Agreement with Lake Park
Crescent I, LLC. Construction and lease-up has been completed for the first rental phase, which
consisted of 60 public housing units, 52 affordable rental units, and 36 market rate rental units.
The Development Agreement was subsequently terminated in August 2005, and the scope of
further development was renegotiated and revised to limit construction to a portion of the site
known as Lake Park Crescent Phase 1A For Sale Development. CHA agreed to fund the cost of
site remediation for pre-existing conditions (other than the costs which would have otherwise
been incurred by the Developer), subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility. Site
preparation for the new development has begun with the City’s construction of public utility
infrastructure. All of the necessary environmental reports and studies have been completed and
the prerequisite approvals were obtained from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for
the Remediation Action Plan proposed for the development site. The Lake Park Crescent I,
LLC development team was the successful respondent to the 1999 RFP solicitation issued by
Habitat Company and the City of Chicago’s Department of Planning and Development for the
redevelopment of the Lakefront Properties site. HUD has indicated that since a competitive
process was engaged to procure the Lakefront Properties redevelopment team as identified in the
Plan approved by HUD, and since the Lake Park Crescent Phase IA For-Sale site constitutes a
portion of that Plan, and since the engineered barrier approach to remediation involves
construction elements to be performed post-closing, there is sufficient justification to enter into
this contract. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves contract with Lakefront
Associates, LLC for environmental remediation activities at the Lake Park Crescent Phase IA
For-Sale development site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, May 9, 2006,
requesting “Authorization to 1) Enter into a Contract for Environmental
Remediation Activities with Lakefront Associates I, LLC, an Illinois Limited
Liability Company, (The “Developer”), for the Lake Park Crescent Phase IA ForSale Development Site and 2) Execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) enter into a contract for environmental remediation activities with
Lakefront Associates I, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company, (the
“Developer”), for a total contract amount not to exceed $1,167,449 which
represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the Lake Park Crescent
Phase 1A For-Sale Development site, and 2) execute such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing. The term of the contract with regards to
the Lake Park Crescent Phase 1A For-Sale Development site shall be the earlier
of (i) receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (“IEPA”), or (ii) two years, subject to a one-year extension at
CHA’s election.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves submittal of a Disposition Application to HUD and
execution of a 99 Year Ground Lease for 1208-24 W. Washburne with RS Retail LLC. The
purpose of this ground lease is to increase the quality of life for the residents of the Roosevelt
Square mixed-income community by providing access to goods and services as well as
employment opportunities in a central location for the neighborhood. The subject property was
vacated in 1999 when a vacant 9-unit residential building and adjacent parking lot from the old
Brooks Homes development was demolished in conjunction with the reconstruction of the
Brooks Homes. The property consists of 8 vacant lots of approximately 25,983 square feet, or
.6 acres. The negotiated price of $1,221,201 was based on appraisals obtained by the CHA, RS
Retail LLC, as well as other comparable sales in the area. RS Retail LLC is comprised of LR
Development as the sole member. RS Retail LLC will develop and own all of the commercial
spaces in Roosevelt Square. RS Retail LLC has already constructed 5 ground floor retail spaces
in the Phase 1 Roosevelt Square rental development area, and is currently constructing one
additional retail space as part of the Phase 1 homeownership development. RS Retail LLC has
23

 also already purchased land from private owners adjacent to the Washburne property that will
provide the combined site with frontage and entrance onto Roosevelt Road. LR Development
was selected as the Master Developer for the Mixed-Income redevelopment of the ABLA Homes
in December 2002, based on a competitive proposal submitted to the CHA and the Receiver in
August 2002. The CHA entered into a Master Development Agreement with LR ABLA LLC on
August 1, 2003. As part of that contract, the CHA agreed that the terms and conditions for the
ground lease of land owned by the CHA that would be used for commercial development would
be negotiated at a later date and would provide for reasonable, market rate rent payments to the
CHA. The CHA shall have no responsibility for environmental issues associated with this retail
development. It is expected that this retail development will begin construction in early 2007.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006
requesting authorization to (i) submit a disposition application to HUD; (ii)
execute a ninety-nine (99) year Ground Lease for 1208-24 W. Washburne with
RS Retail LLC and (iii) execute such other documents as necessary to implement
the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: (i) submit a disposition application to HUD; (ii) execute a ninety-nine
(99) year Ground Lease for 1208-24 W. Washburne with RS Retail LLC and (iii)
execute such other documents as necessary to implement the forgoing.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and
Amended Disposition Application to HUD and commits CHA Funds of up to $12,700,000 to the
Henry Horner Homes Phase IIB Rental On-site Redevelopment Project. The Horner Phase IIB
Rental project will consist of approximately 127 new construction mixed income rental units
built on CHA-owned land that formerly comprised part of the Henry Horner Homes, and a
management office. The development will be located in an area bounded by Wood Street on the
east, Wolcott Ave on the west, Lake Street on the north and Washington Blvd on the south. The
project is expected to provide 70 rental units of replacement public housing for Horner residents,
subsidized by the CHA under a 40-year contract to provide operating subsidy. Of the
approximately 127 rental units, it is expected that 97 (including the 70 public housing units) will
be subject to low-income housing tax credit restrictions and 30 units will be market rate with no
restrictions. The CHA land in the Phase IIB Rental site will be ground leased by one or more
ground leases to the ownership entity of the Brinshore-Michaels development team. The CHA
will enter into other agreements to implement the proposal, which may include but not be limited
to, loan documents, a regulatory and operating agreement, one or more mixed-finance
amendments to the Annual Contributions Contracts, declarations of restrictive covenants,
instruments necessary or appropriate to clear title, easements to implement the redevelopment,
and other documents. The total cost of the project is approximately $34,177,320. Permanent
sources of funding for Phase IIB Rental include approximately: (1) $14,248,556 in equity raised
from the syndication of 9% tax credits allocated by the Illinois Housing Development Authority
in the amount of $1,500,000: (2) a $2,400,000 first mortgage loan from JP Morgan Chase Bank:
(3) an $8,516,615 loan of Gautreaux public housing funds and $1,735,527 in Horner settlement
funds by the CHA: (4) a $6,500,000 HOME loan from the City of Chicago Department of
Housing: (5) a $750,000 IHDA Trust Fund loan and (6) $26,622 in deferred developer fee. An
equity bridge loan of approximately $9,400,000 from JP Morgan Chase Bank will be used during
the construction period. In addition, the developer expects to receive approximately $533,500
from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago’s affordable housing program for anticipated
construction cost increases.

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2006,
requesting authorization to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries
and an amended disposition application to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Developments (HUD) 2) Commit CHA funds up to
$12,700,000 to the Henry Horner Phase IIB Rental on-site rental redevelopment
project, and 3) Dispose of CHA land at the Phase IIB Rental site to the ownership
24

 entity(ies) by one or more ground leases, and 4) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and an amended Disposition
Application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Developments
(HUD), 2) Commit CHA funds of up to $12,700,000 (exclusive of remediation
and demolition funds) to the Henry Horner Phase IIB Rental on-site
redevelopment project, and 3) Dispose of CHA land at Phase IIB site by longterm ground lease(s) to the ownership entity(ies), and 4) Execute and deliver such
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing, subject to any necessary HUD approvals.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves the selection of The Community Builders (TCB) as the
selected developer for a senior building within the Madden /Wells community, submit a
Disposition Application to HUD and enter into a 99 year Ground Lease with TCB. A Request
for Qualifications (RFQ) was issued by the CHA and the Madden/Wells Evaluation Panel
evaluated the sole response. TCB will develop a privately owned senior building on the corner
of 37th Street and Langley Avenue (approximately 3701-3749 S. Langley). The building will
contain 81 units, and of these units, seventy-five percent (approximately 60 units) will be
targeted to seniors living in the Madden/Wells and other public housing developments, as well as
other eligible seniors that meet the HUD Section 202 income requirements. As the Developer,
TCB intends to submit, as the sole sponsor, a funding application to HUD under its Section 202
Program. The eventual Owner of the Project will likely be a for-profit limited partnership with
TCB created for the purpose of owning the Project. TCB will serve as the sole general partner.
As part of the application process, an Option granted by CHA is necessary in order for TCB to
evidence site control of the CHA-owned land. In the event TCB secures the Section 202 Program
funding, in addition to other sources of financing required for the construction of the senior
building, CHA will then enter into a 99-year ground lease with TCB. If HUD Section 202
Program funding is not awarded to TCB during the 2006 allocation year, at the election of the
CHA, the Option may be renewed for an additional one year period to allow for TCB to resubmit
a Fiscal Year 2007 HUD Section 202 Program funding application. In preparation of entering
into the subject 99-year ground lease, CHA must submit a disposition application to HUD and
obtain its approval for the disposition of the land where the senior building is to be constructed.
As part of the overall development process, TCB has elected to enter into a Joint Venture
Agreement with UJIMA. TCB will receive a developer fee for performance of its Developer
Services, and will pay a fee to UJIMA for the performance of its services. UJIMA’s role will be
to collaborate with TCB to engage the community throughout the development, construction,
lease-up and management processes, and provide input on Section 3, MBE/WBE and local
hiring. UJIMA will also have input on the design, development, and operation of the building.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item No. B6.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated May 9, 2006
requesting: 1) approval of The Community Builders, Inc. (TCB) as the selected
developer for a Senior building within the Madden/Wells community; 2)
authorization to issue an Option Agreement and execute a 99-year Ground Lease
with TCB (or its affiliate); 3) authorization to submit a disposition application to
the U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); and 4)
authorization to execute such other documents necessary to implement the
foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby: 1) approves of The Community Builders,
Inc. (TCB) as the selected developer for a Senior building within the
Madden/Wells community; 2) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
25

 designee to issue an Option Agreement and execute a 99-year Ground Lease with
TCB or its affiliate; 3) authorizes the submission of a disposition application to
HUD; and 4) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute
such other documents necessary to implement the foregoing. In the event the
Section 202 Program funding is not awarded during the 2006 allocation year, then
the Option may be renewed for an additional one (1) year.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Halie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on Item B6 only)
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her report.
Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
May 10, 2006 at 2:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices.
The Committee was presented with an update on Summer Youth Activities by Andy Teitelman,
Deputy Managing Director of Resident Services, Natasha Smith of After School Matters and
Harold Bailey of the Chicago Park District.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 and C2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the second one year contract option of Housing Choice
Partners of Illinois (HCP). In December 2003, the Board authorized the initial contract with
HCP to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families that had to relocate from
their existing public housing units in 2004. Their units were in buildings scheduled for closing
due to redevelopment/rehabilitation and they were to relocate to other CHA public housing units
or private-market housing using a Housing Choice Voucher. The Contract’s initial term was for
fourteen (14) months with four one-year options, which was extended for an additional one-year
period pursuant to authorization of the Board.
The services provided included
obtaining/maintaining lease compliance, assessment, providing community tours, identifying
housing and other services to assist families in meeting their housing choice. HCP has met, and
at times exceeded its contract obligations with the CHA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 9, 2006, entitled “Recommendation to exercise the
second one year option of Contract No. 0454 with HCP of Illinois, Inc. and
Heartland Human Care Services, Inc., a Joint Venture for Housing and Supportive
Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one (1) year option of Contract No. 0454 with
26

 HCP of Illinois, Inc. and Heartland Human Care Services, Inc. a joint venture, for
housing and supportive services for the period of July 1, 2006 through June 30,
2007 and to increase the Contract’s not-to-exceed compensation amount by adding
1,091,526.00 to the carryover balance remaining at the end of the first one-year
option period. The new total not-to-exceed contract amount of Contract will be
$2,311,702.00.
(Item C2)
In August of 2002 an Intergovernmental Agreement was made and entered into by and between
the CHA, the Housing Authority of Cook County, and the Lake County Housing Authority, the
Metropolitan Planning Council, and the Illinois Housing Development Authority, to establish a
new program entitled the Regional Housing Initiative. The Intergovernmental Agreement
contemplated the addition of other housing authorities from the six county metropolitan region
joining RHI as Participating Housing Authorities. The resolution for Item C2 approves inclusion
of the McHenry County Housing Authority as a participating Housing Authority in the RHI IGA.
McHenry agrees to contribute seven Housing Choice Vouchers to RHI.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-76
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 9, 2006
entitled Authorization to include the McHenry County Housing Authority as a
participating housing authority in the Regional Housing Initiative
Intergovernmental Agreement;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners approves the Chicago Housing Authority entering
into an amendment to the Regional Housing Initiative Intergovernmental
Agreement to include the McHenry County Housing Authority as a participating
housing authority in the Regional Housing Initiative.

THAT:

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to take all actions and execute all documents necessary to implement the
foregoing and ratifies any such actions taken.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Halie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

27

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 