MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 20, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
February 20, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at the Daniel Hudson Burnham Apartments, Chicago, Illinois.
In the absence of Chairperson Martin Nesbitt, Commissioner Ivers called the meeting to order
and upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Absent:

Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Ms. Gilliam
announced the joint venture between Capri Capital Partners and Judson Investment Company to
build a $500 million mixed-use development called The Metropolis, on 39th and State. The joint
venture envisions a destination on the scale of Water Tower Place that will serve as an anchor for
the near South side and Bronzeville/Grand Boulevard communities. The development will
include one million square feet of retail shops and mixed-income residences, green space, a
water feature, and will be built in phases that may also include a hotel. Per Ms. Gilliam, when
private sector dollars flow into CHA communities as a result of the Plan for Transformation, it is
a huge vote of confidence for CHA. Ms. Gilliam concluded her report by presenting an update
to the Federal Budget which included appropriations for HUD at essentially the 2006 levels for
most programs, with three exceptions. First, the Operating Fund was funded with an additional
$300 million above FY06, an 8% increase. Second, tenant-based voucher funding was funded
with an additional $502 million above FY06 levels, a 3% increase. Third, project-based voucher
funding was increased an additional $939 million from the 2006 level, an 18% increase.
Commissioner Ivers then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting
residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and upon Motion made by
Commissioner Amey, properly seconded by Commissioner Gates and carried, the Minutes for
the Regular Meeting of November 21 2006 and December 19, 2006 were unanimously approved.
1

 Commissioner Ivers thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Gates then presented a Motion to approve the following resolution for Executive
Session Item 1:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 2, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for January 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
January 2007.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Young then presented a Motion to approve the following resolution for
Executive Session Item 2:
Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-12
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 14,
2007, entitled "Authorization to enter into a Settlement Agreement with Michuda
Construction Co.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $160,000 with
Michuda Construction Inc. (“Michuda”) for alleged damages resulting from
delays that caused Michuda to incur additional costs for extended general
conditions relating to and arising out of the Chicago Housing Authority’s
Contract No. 0420 with Michuda for the rehabilitation and renovation of The
Lake Michigan Apartments, 4227 S. Oakenwald Street.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

2

 The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Young then presented a Motion to approve the following resolution for Executive
Session Item 3:
Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 20,
2007, entitled “Request for Authorization to Submit a Disposition Application to
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Disposition and
Sale of 626 West Jackson Boulevard and Authorization to Sell 916-1000 South
Wabash Avenue”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioner authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her designee
to submit a disposition application to the HUD for the disposition and sale of the
CHA headquarter administrative office building located at 626 W. Jackson
Boulevard and to sell such property for an amount not less than fair market value,
subject to HUD approval. The Chief Executive Officer or her designee is also
authorize to sell another CHA administrative office building located at 916-1000
South Wabash Avenue for an amount not less than fair market value. As offers for
other CHA Satellite Properties are submitted and evaluated, a subsequent request
for authorization to submit a disposition application to HUD and to sell such
property shall be presented to the Board of Commissioners at that time.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 3 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Amey then presented an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
General Items 1 thru 3:
General Item 1
The CHA, in alignment with the original intent of the Moving To Work Demonstration program,
is providing more than the bricks and mortar to rebuild homes, by also providing the building
blocks to improve residents’ lives. These goals can only realistically be accomplished through
the essential waivers and funding flexibility that the Moving To Work Demonstration program
affords. The CHA utilizes MTW waivers to create ground breaking funding structures for its
developments, scattered throughout the Chicago community. Amendment No. 5 to the MTW
Agreement includes a waiver of the 25% limit on the percentage of dwelling units in any
building that can be assisted under a housing assistance payment contract for project-based
voucher assistance, thereby enhancing the flexibility of the CHA’s project based voucher
program. In addition the Amendment includes waivers for HUD regulation rules for conversion
with respect to the CHA’s conversion of public housing units in the Britton-Budd Apartments,
Kenmore Apartments, and Ralph Pomeroy Apartments to project-based voucher units pursuant
to 24 CFR 972 Subpart B (Voluntary Conversion of Public Housing Developments). These units,
once rehabilitated, will count toward the CHA’s commitment to build, develop or rehabilitate
25,000 units under the Plan for Transformation. Also the MTW Agreement is modified so that
conversions are treated the same as demolitions under subsections 3C and 4A of Part I
Attachment A in the formula for the calculation of operating subsidies. Included with the
Resolution is a copy of Amendment No. 5 to the MTW Agreement.
3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 16,
2007, requesting approval of the Moving to Work FY2006 Annual Report,
attached hereto:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Moving to Work
FY2006 Annual Report and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer,
the Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final changes as they may
deem necessary; approve final changes, including changes based on HUD
requirements; and submit the report to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development on March 1, 2007. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

General Item 2
The CHA, in alignment with the original intent of the Moving To Work Demonstration program,
is providing more than the bricks and mortar to rebuild homes, by also providing the building
blocks to improve residents’ lives. These goals can only realistically be accomplished through
the essential waivers and funding flexibility that the Moving To Work Demonstration program
affords. The CHA utilizes MTW waivers to create ground breaking funding structures for its
developments, scattered throughout the Chicago community. Amendment No. 5 to the MTW
Agreement includes a waiver of the 25% limit on the percentage of dwelling units in any
building that can be assisted under a housing assistance payment contract for project-based
voucher assistance, thereby enhancing the flexibility of the CHA’s project based voucher
program. In addition the Amendment includes waivers for HUD regulation rules for conversion
with respect to the CHA’s conversion of public housing units in the Britton-Budd Apartments,
Kenmore Apartments, and Ralph Pomeroy Apartments to project-based voucher units pursuant
to 24 CFR 972 Subpart B (Voluntary Conversion of Public Housing Developments). These units,
once rehabilitated, will count toward the CHA’s commitment to build, develop or rehabilitate
25,000 units under the Plan for Transformation. Also the MTW Agreement is modified so that
conversions are treated the same as demolitions under subsections 3C and 4A of Part I
Attachment A in the formula for the calculation of operating subsidies. Included with the
Resolution is a copy of Amendment No. 5 to the MTW Agreement.
Correction by Jorge Cazares, General Counsel: The alternative authority word should also be
included in Section 8.013D1 of the US Housing Code of 1937.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 16,
2007, requesting approval of Amendment No. 5 to the “Memorandum of
Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work Agreement,” dated
February 6, 2000 between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the Chicago Housing Authority. (the “MTW Agreement”)
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 5 to
the MTW Agreement, which includes (1) waivers of the 25% limit on the
percentage of dwelling units in any building that can be assisted under a housing
assistance payment contract for project-based voucher assistance; and (2) waivers
of various regulatory rules with respect to the conversion of public housing units
to project based voucher units at Britton-Budd Apartments, Kenmore Apartments
and Ralph Pomeroy Apartments; and a provision that such units at said buildings
shall once rehabilitates count toward the CHA’s commitment to build, develop or
rehabilitated 25,000 units under the MTW Agreement; and amends Part I,
Attachment A of the MTW Agreement to treat conversions the same as
demolitions under subsections 3C and 4A thereof with respect to the calculation
of the operating subsidy.

4

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to the Chief Executive
Officer to execute Amendment No. 5 to the MTW Agreement, on behalf of the
CHA.

General Item 3
During FY2006, the seventh year of the Plan for Transformation, the CHA concluded that the
commitment to rehabilitate or rebuild 25,000 units of public housing would take additional time
given a number of obstacles, which include: reduced federal funding; increase construction and
labor costs; a demand for higher quality construction in mixed-income communities; complex
coordination of community involvement; legal obstacles to progress; and adjustments made to
the relocation process as a result of community input. Consequently, the CHA indicated in the
FY2007 Moving to Work Annual Plan submitted to HUD on November 2, 2006 that the Plan for
Transformation would require a 15-year commitment. The execution of Amendment No. 6 to
the MTW Agreement would extend the term of the MTW Agreement, funding commitments,
and regulatory waivers and program changes through 2015. Included with the Resolution is a
copy of Amendment No. 6 to the MTW Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-16
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 16,
2007, requesting approval of Amendment No. 6 to the “Memorandum of
Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work Agreement,” dated
February 6, 2000 between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the Chicago Housing Authority.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 6 to
the “Memorandum of Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work
Agreement,” extending the term Agreement for five years through 2015.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to the Chief Executive
Officer to execute Amendment No. 6 to the “Memorandum of Approval, Resident
Protection Agreement, Moving to Work Agreement” on behalf of the CHA.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for General Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young then presented the report for the Tenant Services Committee. Per
Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday,
February 14, 2007 at the 626 Corporate Offices. Andy Teitelman, Acting Managing Director of
Resident Services and representatives from City Colleges presented the Committee with an
update on Bridges to Careers Program.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items A1 thru A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
In December 2003, the Board authorized a contract with the Uhlich Children’s Advantage
Network (“UCAN”) to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families in 2004
5

 that had to relocate from their existing public housing in buildings scheduled for closing due to
redevelopment/rehabilitation to other CHA public housing units or the private-market housing
using a Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”). The agreement was for fourteen (14) months with
four one-year options.
The services include obtaining/maintaining lease compliancy,
assessment, providing community tours, identifying housing and other services to assist families
in meeting their housing choice. In February 2005, the Board authorized Amendment No. 1
exercising the first one year option for the period of April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006. In
August 2005, the parties executed Amendment No. 2 modifying the Contract’s fee structure to
allow for relocation into newly constructed or rehabilitated housing under the CHA’s Plan for
Transformation. On or about November 30, 2005, the Relocation and Supportive Services
Department negotiated a reduction of the maximum per family fee for services under the
Contract from $5,270.00 to $3,900.00 for all new families referred. In February 2006, the Board
authorized Amendment No. 3 exercising the second one year option for the period April 1, 2006
through March 31, 2007. Throughout the Contract’s base term and option years, UCAN met its
contract obligations and, at times, exceeded those obligations. As a result, the Relocation and
Supportive Services Division is requesting authorization to exercise the Contract’s third one-year
option with UCAN for the period of April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008. A $550,000 increase
in the not-to-exceed compensation amount is required for the third one-year option to allow
UCAN to provide relocation services to approximately 117 families under the Senior Designated
Housing Plan schedule and to provide follow-up services to those families who relocated in
2006. Families will receive the necessary support services to assist their families in relocating to
their designated housing choice.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-17
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated February 12, 2007, entitled “Recommendation to exercise the
third-one year option of Contract No. 0455 with Uhlich Children’s Advantage
Network for Housing and Supportive Services ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the third one- year option of Contract No. 0455 with Uhlich
Children’s Advantage Network (“Contract”) for housing and supportive services
for the period of April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008 and to increase the
Contract’s not-to-exceed compensation amount by $550,000, adding it to the
carryover balance remaining at the end of the second, one-year option period.
The Contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed compensation amount will be
$3,277,680.

(Item A2)
In December 2003, the Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) authorized the CHA to enter into
a 14 month contract, with four (4) one-year extension options, with CPF to provide housing and
supportive services to families who had to relocate from their existing public housing unit in
buildings scheduled for closing due to redevelopment/rehabilitation to another CHA public
housing unit or to private-market housing using a Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”). The
services included obtaining/maintaining lease compliance, assessment, providing community
tours, identifying housing and other services to assist families in meeting their housing choice.
In October 2004, the parties executed Amendment No. 1 to the Contract to provide additional
housing and counseling services consistent with the Scope of Work of the Agreement and to
modify the payment structure for all new families referred. The additional services include:
ensuring that Leaseholders and their families meet the necessary HCV eligibility appointments;
delivering signed HAP contracts to landlords; submitting progress reports to the CHA after the
60 day visit of a leaseholder utilizing an HCV; and hosting job fairs, financial seminars and
career days. In February 2005, the Board authorized the first one year option of the contract.
Amendment No. 2 was executed to extend the Contract and increase the Contract’s funding. In
September 2005, the parties executed Amendment No. 3 modifying the Contract’s fee structure
to allow for relocation into newly constructed or rehabilitated housing under the CHA’s Plan for
Transformation. In February 2006, the Board authorized the second one year option of the
contract. Amendment No. 4 was executed to extend the Contract and increase the Contract’s
funding. CPF has continued to meet, and at times has exceeded its contract obligations with the
CHA. During the third one-year option, CPF will provide support services to CHA families
eligible to return to housing at Wentworth Gardens and Trumbull Park. An increase of
6

 $1,320,000.00 is needed to provide services for residents returning to Wentworth Gardens and
Trumbull Park and to provide follow-up services to families who were referred to CPF in 2006.
There are 212 rehabilitated public housing units becoming available at Wentworth Gardens and
300 rehabilitated public housing units becoming available at Trumbull Park in 2007. Based on
these projections, it is estimated that CPF will be serving a minimum of 800 families during
2007.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-18
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated February 12, 2007, entitled “Authorization to execute the third
one-year option of contract No. 0452 with Changing Patterns for families for
Housing and Supportive Services.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or Her
designee to exercise the third one-year option of Contract No. 0452 with
Changing Patterns for Families for housing and supportive services for the period
of April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2008, and to increase the Contract’s not-toexceed compensation amount by $1,320,000.00, adding it to the carryover balance
available at the end of the second option year. The new aggregate total not-toexceed amount of the Contract will be $5,037,020.00.

(Item A3)
The Chicago Housing Authority’s Plan for Transformation represents a new beginning for public
housing in Chicago. To support the Plan’s self-sufficiency objective for families, the CHA has
partnered with CCC to establish education and training programs for CHA residents and
relocatees. The goal of the partnership with CCC is to create a continuum of education and
training supportive services that will allow CHA residents to advance over time to progressively
higher levels of education, certification and employment that should ultimately result in better
paying careers in industries of economic importance. This self-sufficiency objective is also
aligned with the CHA’s occupancy policies at mixed-income communities where adult family
members must meet screening criteria that requires engagement in work or self sufficiency
activities for 30 hours each week. The current IGA provides for the delivery of educational
services to CHA residents at a variety of educational levels as well as to provide support while
residents are engaged in educational activities. Under the IGA existing degree and certification
programs are made available to CHA residents at reduced costs in areas such as health care,
transportation, cosmetology, and early care and education. Customized programs such as
industry specific “Career Bridges” enable residents needing more extensive educational support
to move toward entry into degree and certification programs or directly to employment. City
Colleges provides dedicated staff to support residents as they attend educational programs
through assistance in navigating CCC’s enrollment, decision-making about educational tracks to
support employment goals and ensuring continued attendance in CCC’s educational programs.
The funding request is increased from the previous year in order to serve a larger number of
residents. For the two year base term of the contract, it was estimated that 100 participants
would enroll in technical training each year. CHA resident participation exceeded the target
goals over this period, as nearly 200 residents completed technical training. Over 85% of the
overall program budget is allocated for the cost of the technical training courses. During the first
one-year option, it is anticipated that at least 400 residents will enroll in technical training and
completions will increase by approximately 50%. In addition, the budget reflects additional
dedicated staff that was not anticipated during the base term of the contract but is necessary to
ensure resident progress, completion and retention. Increased resources also allow City Colleges
to offer rapid learning literacy courses enabling more residents to meet the qualifications for
employment and training opportunities. The budget and compensation for these educational
services to be paid to CCC by the CHA will be set forth in exhibits to the IGA, which may be
added to from time to time upon agreement of the CCC and the CHA during the term of the IGA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-19
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2007, entitled “Recommendation to authorize the first one year option to extend
the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City Colleges of Chicago for
Educational Services”;
7

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee exercise the first one year option to extend the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City Colleges of Chicago for the period of January 1, 2007
through December 31, 2007 in an amount not-to-exceed $1,070,000.00 to
continue to provide educational services to CHA residents and relocatees.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe then presented the Joint Operations & Facilities and Finance & Audit
Committee monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Joint Operations and Finance
Committee Meetings were held on Wednesday, February 14, 2007 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 W.
Jackson Corporate offices. The Joint Committees were presented with the 2007 Cash Flow
Forecast Narrative, 2007 Projects Cash Flow Forecast, January 2007 Treasury and Cash Flow
Report and an update on the Moving To Work FY2206 Annual Report.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items B1 thru B6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Joint
Operations and Finance Committees.
(Item B1)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program for Families, the Chicago Housing Authority
(“CHA”) and FHP Tectonics Corporation (“FHP”) executed Contract Number 5026 for the
general renovation of Wentworth Gardens at 3770 South Wentworth. The renovation work
commenced in January of 2005. The Capital Construction Department (CCD) requests
ratification OF Contract Modification Number G-06 to Contract No. 5026, in the amount of
$476,566.00, which provides for additional labor hours utilized by the Contractor to complete
work in the Fall of 2005 according to the original schedule, utilizing any needed overtime. This
change order request covers an additional twelve thousand and ninety-five (12,095) labor hours
at premium time wage rates.

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-20
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 12, 2007,
entitled “Ratification of Modification No. G-06 TO CONTRACT NO. 5026 with
FHP Tectonics Corporation for additional work related to the General Renovation
of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies Contract Modification No. G-06 to
Contract No. 5026 with FHP Tectonics Corporation in the amount of $476,566.00
for additional work related to the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2008) at 3770 South Wentworth. The new total contract amount of Contract No.
5026 is $19,385,730.00.

8

 This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B2)
On June 18, 2002, the CHA Board approved entering into a Master Development Agreement
with BMT-I, LLC, and with Brinshore Development, LLC and Michaels Development Co, as
sponsors. The Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 For-Sale development represents the first on-site
for-sale phase of redevelopment within the larger Robert Taylor Revitalization Plan. The ForSale Phase is expected to consist of 22 buildings located in an area bounded by State Street on
the east, 40th Street on the north, the Metra tracks on the west, and Root Street on the south.
The new units will be developed in a variety of housing types as single family detached housing,
single-owner two-flats and condominium buildings. There is no public housing in this for-sale
phase. However, the units will be interspersed with rental housing from the Robert Taylor
Homes Phase A-1 Rental phase, currently under construction. The For-Sale development is
expected to occur in sub-phases in one or more transactions as pre-sale, site control and other
requirements are met for financing the construction. The plans for this phase call for 19 lots to be
deeded to the developer to construct seven single family and ten two-flat structures which will in
turn be sold to individual owners, and include two outlots to provide access. The CHA will retain
ownership of the CHA-owned land underlying the on-site parcels where the condominium
buildings are being built through one or more 99-year for-sale ground lease(s). The initial tenant
will be Hansberry Homes, LLC (or other affiliate of Brinshore-Michaels), as homeownership
development owner.
Upon submission of the ground leased property to the Illinois
Condominium Property Act and sale of the units, the unit owners will acquire the owner’s
interest under the ground lease(s) and the condominium association(s) will act on their behalf as
tenant. CHA received a general disposition approval from HUD to ground lease the Robert
Taylor site. An amendment to such application will be submitted to HUD for authority to deed
the 19 lots and to clarify the ground lease transaction. Plats of subdivision and/or vacation and
dedication have been implemented. Easements, licenses, rights of entry and/or rights of way
necessary or appropriate to implement Phase A-I also have been or will be implemented.
Various other documents may be necessary or appropriate to implement the Phase A-I For-Sale
transaction, including, but not be limited to, one or more quitclaim deeds, a property rights
agreement, one or more condominium declarations, a receiver consent, documents necessary or
appropriate to clear title, and releases.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-21
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2007, requesting authorization for the Chief Executive Officer or her designee to
submit an amended disposition application to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”), and to enter into one or more 99-year
ground lease(s) and transfer nineteen (19) lots in fee simple to Hansberry Homes,
LLC or other affiliate of Brinshore-Michaels, and to execute, deliver and perform
such documents and take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 For-Sale (Hansberry Park)
development, subject to any necessary HUD approval.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to
(i) submit an amended disposition application to HUD, and (ii) enter into one or
more 99-year ground lease(s) and transfer nineteen (19) lots in fee simple to
Hansberry Homes, LLC (or other affiliate of Brinshore-Michaels), and (iii) to
execute, deliver and perform such documents and take such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1
(Hansberry Park) For-Sale development, subject to any necessary HUD approval.

THAT,

All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same
hereby are, in all respects, ratified, approved and confirmed.

(Item B3)
On June 18, 2002, the CHA Board approved entering into a Master Development Agreement
9

 with BMT-I, LLC, and with Brinshore Development, LLC and Michaels Development Co, as
sponsors. Pursuant to the Redevelopment Agreement, the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”)
is required to fund the cost of on-site remediation for pre-existing conditions on the development
site (other than costs the Developer would have incurred in any event) on a phase-by-phase basis,
subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility. Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 (also
known as Hansberry Square) is a mixed-finance, mixed-income on-site development that falls
within the larger Robert Taylor Homes Revitalization Plan. This for-sale phase of Phase A-1
(“Taylor A-1 For Sale”) is expected to produce 47 new construction units, interspersed with the
rental units from the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 Rental phase. Skender will be the General
Contractor on this first on-site For Sale phase and will provide the environmental remediation
work. Founded in 1955 by Joseph Skender Sr., Skender Construction Company, Inc. has built
commercial, industrial and institutional facilities, and employs a professional support staff which
includes architects and registered engineers. Its anticipated joint venturer is a resident-owned
business. The estimated remediation costs for the Taylor A-1 For Sale site is $710,869.00.
CHA’s contractual responsibility under the MDA for remediation is capped at 225% of this
estimated total cost which is $1,599,456.00. Accordingly, it is anticipated that (i) the Skender
contract amount will initially be approximately the estimated remediation cost, but
adjusted/amended if necessary up to this cap, and (ii) the contract will be released in sub-phases
to correspond to the sub-phasing of the transaction. All of the necessary environmental reports
and studies have been completed and the prerequisite approvals obtained for the Remediation
Action Plan (“RAP”) proposed for the development site. As part of the approval of the RAP, it
is recommended that we utilize an “engineered barrier” approach to remediation, which is both
the least costly approach, as well as one that is acceptable to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (“IEPA”). Under the engineered barrier approach to remediation, the top 3
feet of soil will be removed and disposed of as “special waste” at an approved licensed special
waste landfill, and replaced by 3 feet of clean soil in all proposed landscaped areas. The soil
removed for the excavation of the foundations will also be disposed of as special waste. The
balance of the site will be capped by impermeable surfaces (I.E.-building structures, parking lots,
streets, sidewalks, etc.). The Brinshore-Michaels development team was the successful
respondent to CHA’s solicitation for the planning and implementation of the Master
Redevelopment Plan for the Robert Taylor Homes development. The Brinshore-Michaels
development team has contracted with Skender as the General Contractor for the redevelopment
of the first on-site For Sale phase (A-1). Various benefits to the project will be realized by
entering into a contract for remediation activities with Skender. The engineered barrier approach
to remediation involves construction elements to be performed post-closing that are intertwined
with the construction and therefore is justification to enter into this contract with Skender. The
benefits namely are (1) continuity of schedule; (2) continuity of activity and (3) economy of
scale.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2007, requesting authorization to enter into a contract with Exodus-Skender Joint
Venture and execute related documents for environmental remediation activities
in connection with the Brinshore-Michaels development team’s implementation
of the HUD approved Revitalization Plan at the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1
For Sale redevelopment site.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a contract with Exodus-Skender Joint Venture and to
execute related documents for environmental remediation activities at the Robert
Taylor Homes Phase A-1 For Sale redevelopment site for a total contract amount
not to exceed $1,599,456.00 (225% of the estimated remediation costs), subject to
any necessary HUD approvals. The term of the contract shall be the earlier of: the
receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency with regard to the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 For Sale
redevelopment site, or two years, subject to a one year extension.

(Item B4)
Wentworth Gardens is undergoing modernization. Part of the modernization includes
construction of a laundry facility for the residents at 3770 S. Wentworth for the convenience of
the residents. Previously, the CHA entered into revenue sharing agreements with several
10

 companies, including MacGray services for the supply, delivery and maintenance of laundry
equipment at various CHA family developments and senior buildings. The CHA provides water
and utility hook-ups and the vendors supply the laundry room appliances and other related
equipment and provide all maintenance services. This type of arrangement provides an offset to
the CHA to cover the CHA’s cost of utilities and water and provides some revenue to the CHA
that can then be used to fund various other resident programs. Therefore, the CHA determined to
use this type of agreement in this procurement for Wentworth Gardens. Upon review of
MacGray’s proposal, it provides the most comprehensive laundry services program available
today. Some of the features that MacGray offers are: (1) efficient Maytag washers; (2) a $5.00
credit on the initial distribution of smart/debit cards to approximately 220 residents (a $1100
value); (3) Each month, CHA will receive 55% of all gross revenue collected from all twenty-six
machines that will be installed to cover the vendor’s usage of CHA facilities and CHA’s water
and utility costs; and (4) a $4000 contribution for laundry room improvements. The length of the
term of the agreement is necessary to allow MacGray to receive an appropriate return on its
capital investment. The RFP for the supply, delivery and maintenance of washers, dryers and
laundry room equipment was advertised on CHA’s website on September 20, 2006. In addition
to advertising, seven (7) laundry firms, which include two MBEs, were directly solicited. A
highly recommended site visit and pre-proposal conference was held on September 25, 2006.
Addendum No. 1 was issued on October 3, 2006 that extended the proposal due date and
answered questions from the pre-proposal meeting. On October 10, 2006 one (l) response was
received from MacGray. Although only one (l) response was received, it was determined that
MacGray’s proposal was beneficial to the CHA as it would provide 1) high-efficient equipment,
2) a smart/debit card system versus a traditional coin operated system, 3) a fixed percentage of
gross revenues not tied to occupancy, 4) a preventative maintenance plan, and 5) on-line service
call entry system for the residents to use to increase efficiency, timeliness of service and a log of
all service calls. CHA will know exactly when a machine has been repaired.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2007, titled “Authorization to Enter into Contracts with MacGray Services, Inc.,
for the Supply and Maintenance of Washers, Dryers and Laundry Room
Equipment at Wentworth Gardens Development”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a five-year revenue sharing contract, with one option year,
with MacGray Services, Inc. for the supply, delivery and maintenance of washers,
dryers and laundry room equipment at the Wentworth Gardens Development.

(Item B5)
CHA proposes to enter into an agreement with Konica Minolta Business Solutions to lease and
maintain twenty (20) high speed black and white copiers, one (1) medium range black and white
copier and one (1) high speed color copier at the CNA building at 60 E. Van Buren. In
accordance with the requirements sought, as outlined in the RFP, Konica Minolta has responded
specifically to our request for technology and maintenance. The merger between the two firms
and the fact that they manufacture the product that they sell has placed them at the top of the
industry where technology and service is concerned. It also allows them to be more user friendly
where pricing is concerned. CHA is reducing the number of in-house copiers by sixty six percent
(66%) to serve the same number of employees currently on staff. We anticipate a higher
workload for each piece of equipment. It is for this reason that high speed copiers are necessary
in all areas. Konica Minolta was determined to be the only respondent that submitted a proposal
that met our requested specifications in full. We have no recent history with this firm. In order to
ensure that our selection was correct, the Evaluation Committee requested and received a
demonstration of all copiers that were proposed in their submission. The speed of the units and
quality of the finished product was superb. The cost of this equipment supply with maintenance
services will include leasing, maintenance, click charges and all material with the exception of
paper. The base cost for the twenty two (22) total copiers to be provided under the lease(s) is
$162,212.40 over the three year term proposed, and the incremental maintenance and click costs
accrue at an average blended rate of $.006 per copy/click. Using consumption levels rate from
prior experience and the blended click rate, the total forecast of click costs over the term is
expected to be $13,124.76. The RFP for supply, delivery, and maintenance of copiers (RFP No.
01486) was released on December 4, 2006. The RFP was mailed to thirteen (13) vendors and
11

 advertised in the Chicago Tribune on December 4, 2006, Extra Newspaper on December 7, 2006,
and Hyde Park Herald on December 13, 2006, and Six (6) proposals were picked up and five (5)
proposals were received. One (1) was deemed non-responsive. Based on the results of the
evaluation committee, Konica Minolta Business Solutions was determined to be the Respondent
that best and most completely provided the requested specifications across the board.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-24
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated February 12, 2007, “Authorization to Enter into a Copier
Contract with Konica Minolta Business Solutions”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

it is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to enter into a contract with Konica Minolta
Business Solutions not-to-exceed $175,337.16, for a period of thirty-six (36)
months for the lease of the copier equipment and related maintenance services
for the equipment provided.

(Item B6)
As a cost saving strategy the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA” or the “Authority”) made a
decision to consolidate administrative functions at one central headquarters. CHA selected the
CNA Building, located at 60 E. Van Buren for its new home. Seven administrative buildings
will be consolidated under one roof housing approximately 900 staff and agents. The initiative is
projected to save the Authority approximately one $1 million dollars annually over the term of
the lease. Combining CHA and CHAC (housing choice voucher program) at the same facility
required the Authority to obtain a telephony system robust enough to meet our current and future
needs. With CHAC’s extensive call volume and the CHA’s diverse telephone needs, the
telephone system needed to be capable of handling over 120,000 calls a month, provide
management reports, and support emergency responder information. CHA selected Cisco
Systems to supply a new “state of the art” VOIP phone solution, which was acquired and initially
installed by a Cisco-certified Vendor and Reseller, Berbee Information Networks Corporation.
To ensure the system is supported and available to the maximum extent, the telephone solution is
intended to be covered by a Cisco SmartNet maintenance agreement. SmartNet maintenance,
available exclusively from Cisco Systems as the products’ manufacturer, provides preventive and
remedial maintenance for the Cisco VOIP telephony system, as well as certain software updates
and related features integral to function and maintenance of the equipment. Prudent business
practices dictate having maintenance agreements in place to ensure critical business functions are
restored quickly and efficiently, and the CHA has elected to secure SmartNet maintenance
services from Cisco Systems for an extended term of five (5) years, which will lock in
maintenance costs at the current annual rate (to hedge against potential future cost increases),
and which results in an effective discount from Cisco Systems for the annual maintenance
relative to prevailing vendor prices for such maintenance services. As part of the relocation
project, a new Cisco VOIP telephony solution was acquired for the Authority. To keep the total
cost of ownership as low as possible, vendors were asked to submit their proposals for
maintenance with a five-year fixed price bid. Berbee’s bid price for five years of Cisco
SmartNet maintenance was the lowest at $282,814. The multi-year service plan enables the
Authority to achieve an effective discount of twenty five percent. Since multi-year agreements
require payment in full and the Authority wishes to pay annually with no interest, it is
recommended that the maintenance services be financed over a five (5) year term through
Cisco’s partner lease plan provided by its preferred government finance partner, Key
Government Finance.
Cisco Systems Capital, a division of Cisco Systems, utilizes Key
Government Finance for their financing program. Upon the execution of the financing
documents, CHA would lock in a five year fixed price for the requested maintenance services
and would achieve a promotional financial incentive savings in the amount of $25,407. Through
the structured transaction, the CHA would also effectively benefit from the Cisco provided lease
discount, which offers the CHA the ability to finance the maintenance services under the lease
with an interest rate equivalent to 0%.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-25
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 12,
2007, entitled “Authorization to Enter into Related Contracts with Cisco Systems
and Key Government Finance to Provide and to Finance Extended Term
12

 SmartNet Maintenance Services for CHA Telecommunications Equipment”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a five (5) year services contract with Cisco Systems for the
provision of SmartNet maintenance services for a firm fixed price of $282,814.00,
and to enter into a related agreement with Key Government Finance to provide
financial accommodations for the lease of such SmartNet maintenance services
which shall result in fixed, equal annual payments for such lease which shall
aggregate to the amount of $282,814.00 for the five (5) year lease term.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru Item B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey (Recused from voting on Item B1 and B4)
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe (Recused from voting on Item B6 only)
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Joint Operations and Finance Committee report was also
accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

13

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 