MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 17, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
February 17, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. at Cabrini Green, 18th District Police Station, 1160 North
Larrabee, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Bridget O’Keefe

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, Kris Warren, Chief Operating Officer;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
At approximately 8:38 a.m., Commissioner O’Keefe joined the meeting in progress.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
At approximately 10:30 a.m. the Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the
meeting.
Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer then commenced his monthly report by announcing
that January 16th marked his one-year anniversary at the CHA and the 10 year anniversary of
CHA’s Plan For Transformation. Mr. Jordan then provided the Commissioners and public with
Development highlights as of December 2008 to include the construction or rehabilitation of
16,936 homes and apartments; closure of the remaining buildings at Madden/Wells; the
consolidation of low vacancy buildings at Ickes; the launch of the very successful “RentBetter”
campaign to encourage a broader group of Chicagoans to apply for rental assistance in the
private market. Mr. Jordan then highlighted the many social services programs and successes
associated with the Plan and concluded his presentation with a reminder that the Plan For
Transformation is more than bricks and mortar; it’s about integrating families, improving lives
and generating renewal in the surrounding communities. Mr. Jordan extended an invitation to
the public at large to take a drive through communities redeveloped by CHA and reiterated his
full commitment to making sure the remainder of the Plan a success.

1

 Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, the Chairman introduced the
Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Young presented a Motion for the approval of resolution for Executive Session
Item 1.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 2, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for January 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
January 2009.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe then presented a Motion for the approval of resolution for General Item
1.
General Item 1
The resolution for General Item 1 approves the CHA Strategic Plan. In 2007, the Board of
Commissioners and CHA Executive staff embarked upon a Strategic Planning effort to ensure
that the agency moved forward in the proper direction concurrent to the requirements of the
CHA Plan for Transformation. The Strategic Plan has now been accomplished with five Vision
statements and fourteen Critical Success Factors, created from the vision statements.
Ultimately, much of the strategic planning effort will evolve into a performance management
system in 2009 that will measure the milestones and objectives of the Plan itself. These elements
will be transitioned from the Board of Commissioner’s office and measured through the
Organizational Effectiveness Division.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009, requesting adoption the Chicago Housing Authority Strategic Plan and
concurs in the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners adopts the Chicago Housing Authority Strategic
Plan.

2

 The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, due to a lack of quorum, the regularly scheduled
Tenant Services Committee meeting was not held on Wednesday, February 11th.
The
Committee, however, was presented with a Technology Training Update by Linda Kaiser and
staff of Resident Services. Commissioners was also briefed on items listed on the Committee
Agenda, however, for the record, no vote was taken.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A4.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago
Department of Family and Support Services (DFSS) for Homelessness Prevention. The Street
Homeless Prevention Initiative includes the provision of homeless prevention and emergency
support services to CHA residents facing eviction from a CHA family development or senior
designated housing development. DFSS shall offer assistance to these families including, but not
limited to: crisis counseling, emergency shelter or interim housing placement, transportation
assistance, storage of personal items, and emergency food or referrals to other City of Chicago
resources as needed. For families placed temporarily within the City of Chicago’s network of
emergency shelters, the DFSS Shelter System will provide continued support services to assist
them in achieving longer-term housing stability. DFSS and CHA will create an early eviction
notification process that will establish a direct referral process to DFSS from CHA’s Asset
Management Division. Additionally, DFSS will coordinate with the Cook County Sheriff’s
Office prior to an eviction so that necessary emergency or immediate assistance may be provided
to the family.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-15
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009
entitled
“RECOMMENDATION
TO
ENTER
INTO
AN
INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AGREEMENT
WITH
THE
CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR
HOMELESS PREVENTION SERVICES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Chicago Department of Family and Supportive Services to provide homeless
prevention services to CHA families for a one-year base-term of April 1, 2009
through March 31, 2010, for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed of $500,000.00.

(Item A2)
To ensure continued compliance with the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy, the
CHA screens adults in a household before they make a permanent or temporary move to a CHA
unit under the Relocation Rights Contract, or before they make other administrative or residentinitiated transfers, additions to the lease, or head of household changes. Consequently, the CHA
contracts a screening company to conduct the criminal, credit, and tenant background checks.

3

 The screening company then provides the reports to the CHA for a final determination of
compliance. In November 2008, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposals in area newspapers
to solicit proposals for tenant screening services. The proposal was also sent out to 13 vendors
and 17 Assist Agencies. Of the 7 proposals received, 6 proposals were deemed responsive and
one 1 was deemed non-responsive due to lack of submittal forms. Of the 6 proposals received, 4
respondents were determined to be in the competitive range, and were invited to make Oral
Presentations to the evaluation panel. Screening Reports, Inc. received the highest scoring as a
result of the combined evaluation of the written proposals and the oral presentations. Screening
Reports, Inc. is also offering the most concrete Section 3 hiring plan. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract to Screening Reports, Inc. for tenant screening
services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-16
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
SCREENING REPORTS, INC. FOR TENANT SCREENING SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee(s), to enter into a contract with Screening Reports, Inc. to provide
Tenant Screening Services for a two (2) year base term, in an amount not-toexceed $242,000.00, with a single one (1) year extension option, in an amount not
to exceed $121,000.00.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the lease extension for the premises located at 3333 West
Arthington, Chicago, Illinois. The CHA’s Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Program serves
approximately 35,000 families and over 16,000 landlords in the City of Chicago with three
satellite offices supporting the program. The Chicago Housing Authority entered into the lease
for the Arthington premises commencing January 1, 2004 for an initial term of five years. The
current lease term expires on February 28, 2009. Due to the recent bifurcation of the HCV
program and CHA’s commitment to provide quality customer service, the HCV program is
exploring the possibility of relocating a number of HCV personnel currently located in the
central offices at 60 E. Van Buren to the satellite offices. The HCV program realizes that the
current facility cannot support additional personnel and seeks the lease extension in order to
investigate potential alternate satellite office sites.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-17
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 11, 2009
entitled “Authorization to Extend Lease Agreement for the premises located at
3333 W. Arthington St., Chicago Illinois.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Lease Extension Agreement for the premises located at
3333 W. Arthington St. Chicago Illinois” between PNL Homan Square, LLC and
the Chicago Housing Authority for an initial six month period commencing
March 1, 2009 and expiring August 30, 2009 at a Total Base Rent of $25,165.02.
CHA shall have the option to further extend the lease for up to six (6) additional
one-month periods upon written notice at an additional monthly rental amount of
$4,194.17 and a Total Base Rent Amount Not to Exceed $50,330.04, plus any
proportionate share of increased real estate taxes and operating expenses above
the Total Base Rent.

(Item A4)
In 1996, the CHA reached a settlement in a class action lawsuit that charged the CHA and HUD
with discrimination against Latinos in Chicago’s public housing programs. The court found that
Latinos had been deprived of housing assistance caused by actions and/or omissions on the part
of the CHA. The settlement resulted in the Latino Consent Decree which, among other
requirements, required the CHA to have two site offices, staffed at all levels with bilingual
personnel, to assist individuals seeking information about or desiring to register for CHA

4

 programs. Although the 10-year the Latino Consent Decree has expired, in the spirit of goodfaith, the CHA has continued to take affirmative actions in the form of marketing, intake and
outreach to the Latino community. Accordingly, a Request for Proposal was advertized soliciting
vendors to provide bilingual marketing, intake and outreach to the Latino community,
community at large and individuals for CHA programs and services at two satellite offices.
Additionally, 12 Latino population serving firms were directly solicited and 7 picked up RFP. A
Pre-Proposal Conference was held in October and 3 firms attended. The CHA received only one
proposal from Spanish Coalition for Housing (SCH). Accordingly, the resolution for Item A4
approves award of contract to Spanish Coalition for Housing to provide Latino Site Office,
Marketing, Intake and Outreach Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-18
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 11, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACT WITH SPANISH
COALITION FOR HOUSING TO PROVIDE LATINO SITE OFFCIESMARKETING, INTAKE AND OUTREACH SERVICES FOR THE CHA”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with Spanish Coalition for Housing
in an amount not-to-exceed $512,284.00 for a term of one year with one, one (1) year option to operate the Latino Site Offices for the CHA to provide bilingual
(Spanish) marketing, intake, and outreach services for CHA’s housing programs
and opportunities to Latino communities.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item A1 thru A4 was seconded by Commissioner
Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ponce, due to a lack of quorum, the regularly scheduled Operations
and Facilities Committee meeting was not held on Wednesday, February 11th. While
Commissioners were briefed on items listed on the Committee Agenda, for the record, no vote
was taken.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Item B1 thru B6:
(Item B1)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in December 2008 to include concrete repairs, joint
sealant replacements, concrete coating applications, railing replacements, and membrane
applications to the exterior wall and enclosures at Judge Harry M. Fisher Apartments located at
5821 North Broadway Avenue. The IFB was advertized in area newspapers and on the CHA
BuySpeed website. The CHA also directly solicited 250 contractors, including 44
MBE/WBE/DBE firms, and 30 assist agencies. Of the five bids opened a Pre-award survey
meeting was held with the two lowest bidders. After review of the bid materials and responses to
the questions presented at the pre-award survey, Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. was determined to
be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1

5

 approves contract award to Tyler Lane Construction for exterior restoration work at Judge Harry
Fisher Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-19
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 11, 2009
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH TYLER
LANE CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR EXTERIOR RESTORATION WORK AT
JUDGE HARRY M. FISHER APARTMENTS (IL2-044D)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Tyler Lane Construction, Inc. in the firm fixed
amount of $1,570,210.00 for exterior restoration work at Judge Harry M. Fisher
Apartments (IL2-044D), located at 5821 North Broadway Avenue, to be
completed within seven hundred thirty (730) calendar days from the date set forth
in the Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in November 2008 for concrete repairs, joint sealant
replacements, concrete spandrel repairs and concrete coating applications at the exterior walls
and enclosures on all elevations of the penthouses, 26-story high rise building and 1-story social
center at Caroline Hedger Apartments located at 6400 North Sheridan Road. The CHA
advertised the IFB in area newspapers and on the CHA BuySpeed website. The CHA also
directly solicited 289 contractors, including 49 MBE/WBE/DBE firms, and thirty-five (35) assist
agencies. Of the seven bids opened and received, Pre-award survey meetings were held with the
three lowest bidders. J.S. L. was determined to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves contract award to J.S.L. for exterior restoration
work at Caroline Hedger Apartments. J.S.L. has extensive experience performing façade repairs
and recently worked on the exterior of the Palmer House as part of the team doing a major
restoration of that Chicago landmark. They had an excellent grasp of the Scope of Work and
anticipate finishing the project well within the time allotted in the solicitation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-20
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 11, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH J.S.L.
MASONRY RESTORATION, INC. FOR EXTERIOR RESTORATION WORK
AT CAROLINE HEDGER APARTMENTS (IL2-073)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with J.S.L. Masonry Restoration, Inc. in the firm
fixed amount of $1,753,697.00 for exterior restoration work at Caroline Hedger
Apartments (IL2-073), located at 6400 North Sheridan Road, to be completed
within seven hundred thirty (730) calendar days from the date set forth in the
Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid to perform site work and renovate units in the Family
Housing development at Dearborn Homes (IL2-009). The Scope of Work covers the renovation
of 128 units, including interior and exterior rehabilitation of all tenant and common areas,
mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems. The Scope will also cover work on the distribution
of the site’s electrical service. This work will include the three (3) buildings scheduled for

6

 renovation, but will also impact the entire development. All work is to be completed by
November 30, 2009. The renovation work will be performed at 2701 South Dearborn, 2730
South State Street and 2731 South Dearborn in Chicago, Illinois. The IFB was advertised in area
newspapers and on the CHA website. The CHA received and opened six bids. Pre-award
meetings were conducted with the three lowest bidders and after a thorough review of all bid
submittals and considered, Burling Builders, Inc. was determined to be the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder at $28,210,000.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award
of contract to Burling Builders for the Family Housing Renovation at Dearborn Homes, Phase 3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-21
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
BURLING BUILDERS, INC. FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING RENOVATION
AT DEARBORN HOMES (IL2-009) – PHASE 3”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Burling Builders, Inc. in the amount of
$28,210,000.00 for the site work and the renovation of three buildings located at
2701 South Dearborn, 2730 South State Street and 2731 South Dearborn, at
Dearborn Homes (IL2-009), a Family Housing development, to be completed by
November 30, 2009. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with
the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

(Item B4)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for in November 2008 for the Demolition of Non-Dwelling
Building Structures. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and the CHA website. The CHA
also e-mailed solicitation notices to 52 firms, including eleven 11 MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the
seven bids received, pre-award meetings were held with four respondents to clarify whether the
bidders had the experience and capacity to effectively perform the demolitions within the time
allotted and within their bid amounts. After a thorough review by the evaluating committee, it
was determined that the lowest responsive and responsible bidders are American Demolition
Corporation for Site 1, Heneghan Wrecking Co. Inc. for Site 2 and Delta Demolition Inc. for Site
3. The recommended contract awards are based on the lowest lump sum total for each individual
site received. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to the above
three named vendors for the demolition of non-dwelling building structures.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 11, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH AMERICAN
DEMOLITION CORPORATION, HENEGHAN WRECKING CO. INC. AND
DELTA DEMOLITION INC. FOR THE DEMOLITION OF THREE (3) NONDWELLING BUILDING STRUCTURES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with the following for the demolition of three (3)
non-dwelling structures: American Demolition Corporation in the amount of
$255,500.00 for the demolition of 418 West Oak Street (Site No. 1); Heneghan
Wrecking Co. Inc. in the amount of $137,000.00 for the demolition of 4440 South
Cottage Grove (Site No. 2); and Delta Demolition Inc. in the amount of
$397,000.00 for the demolition of 454 West Pershing Road (Site No. 3). The
demolition of Site No. 1 and Site No. 3 is to be completed within one hundred
twenty (120) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed, and
the demolition of Site No. 2 is to be completed within ninety (90) calendar days
from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. These awards are subject to each
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

7

 (Item B5)
A Request for Proposal (RFP) for the supply, delivery and maintenance of washers, dryers and
laundry room equipment was advertised on CHA’s website in November 2008. In addition to
advertising, seven laundry firms which include two MBE’s were directly solicited. CHA also
notified thirteen Assist Agencies. Coinmach was the sole respondent to the RFP and the firm’s
proposal offered three revenue sharing options based on 64 machines spread through four
laundry rooms. All include varying percentages of shared revenue below $80 per machine per
month, with added incentives such as scholarships or increased revenue percentage. Above $80
per machine per month, all options provided an 80% revenue share. CHA chose the option
determined to be most advantageous to the CHA and its residents, offering a total benefit
projected at $109,502.00 for the first year and $79,502 for each subsequent year. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item B5 approves award of contract to Coinmach Corporation for the provision
of Laundry Facilities and Services at Dearborn Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009, titled, “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Coinmach Corporation
for the Provision of Laundry Facilities and Services at Dearborn Park Homes
Development”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a five-year revenue sharing contract, with a one-year
extension option, with Coinmach Corporation to provide laundry facilities and
services to residents at Dearborn Park Homes Development.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves entering into a Predevelopment Loan Authorization for the
Lake Park Crescent, Phase II Development and to execute such other documents as necessary.
In July 2007, the CHA Board approved the Davis Associates Managers, LLC, team as the
Master Developer for the redevelopment of Lake Park Crescent Phase II site. The Contract for
Redevelopment of Lakefront Properties - Phase II calls for the development of a mixed-income
community consisting of 47 public housing units, 55 affordable housing units, and 167 marketrate housing units. The affordable dwellings will be a mix of 19 rental and 36 homeownership
units, and the market-rate dwellings will consist of 15 rental and 152 homeownership units. The
diverse housing types for this phase included a combination of 6-Flats, 3-Flats, Row-Homes, a
Mid-Rise building, and a Tower. The CHA will ground lease a portion of the land to the
developer for rental development, and may convey a portion in fee for the construction of singlefamily homes planned as part of the overall development. The developer will be responsible for
certain planning and predevelopment activities, assembling financing, construction, managing
the development process, and managing the rental units upon construction completion. The
developer will sell the homeownership units and the CHA will share in the proceeds. The
Contract for Redevelopment provides that predevelopment loans will be provided to the
Developer in amounts not to exceed 75% of eligible third party predevelopment costs consistent
with HUD cost control guidelines and regulations. The proposed predevelopment loan will fund
a portion of HUD eligible Phase II predevelopment costs which include survey work, architect &
engineering design, Planned Development fees, building permits, etc. This predevelopment loan
is expected to be repaid at the Phase II development’s real estate closing. In the event a closing
does not occur, the CHA’s recourse will consist of any and all of the pre-development
professional services contracts entered into by the Developer and the work product associated
with those contracts, procured with the loan funds. Based on the estimated Predevelopment
Budget of $1,996,700 and per the terms of the Contract for Redevelopment, the CHA’s
maximum loan amount will not exceed $1,497,525 and all the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE goals
and Section 3 requirements will be satisfied.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-24
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated February 11,
2009, requesting authorization to enter into a predevelopment loan agreement for
the Lake Park Crescent Phase II development (formerly a portion of Lakefront
Properties) and to execute such other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;

8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a predevelopment loan agreement with Davis Lakefront
LLC, as borrower, Davis Associates Managers LLC as sponsor, and the Receiver
to provide predevelopment loan funds pursuant to the Contract for
Redevelopment of Lakefront Properties-Phase II approved hereby, in an amount
not to exceed $1,497,525 for up to 75% of eligible third party predevelopment
costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines and regulations for the Lake
Park Crescent Phase II development (formerly a portion of Lakefront Properties);
and

THAT

The Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized to execute such
other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing, and to approve any
changes to the agreements approved hereby, including, but not limited to, changes
requested by HUD, his execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of
approval thereof.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B6 was seconded by Commissioner
O’Keefe and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Bridget O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then
presented her monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe the Finance & Audit Committee held
its regular meeting on Wednesday, February 11, 2009 at approximately 2:45 p.m. at the 60 East
Van Buren Corporate offices. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the
Committee with the Treasury & Cash Flow Report for the month of January 2009, the 2009
Annual Cash Forecast and the FY08 4th Quarter Grant Progress Report.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items C1 and C2, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the CHA’s Revised Travel Policy. The revised Travel Policy
provides guidelines for Board members, employees and other authorized individuals traveling on
official CHA business. This policy requires all employees to secure the most economical means of
travel and to use good judgment in managing travel costs. The major revisions to the Travel Policy
are as follows: revises the Reimbursement Rate Table for ground transportation, lodging and per
diem to reflect General Services Administration guidelines for federal government employees and
contractors; revises the language in Travel Policy relating to ground transportation and the meals
per diem; modifies the Official Travel Request Form to include applicable taxes and modifies the
mileage reimbursement rate. In accordance with the Significant Actions Policy, the revised Travel
Policy was routed to Executive Staff for concurrence.

9

 RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-25
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009 recommending adoption of the revised Chicago Housing Authority Travel
Policy and concurs in the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
Chicago Housing Authority Travel Policies and resolutions related thereto.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Travel Policy, Effective February 17, 2009.

THAT

the revised Chicago Housing Authority Travel Policy shall be effective February
17, 2009.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves execution of Amendment No. 2 to the CHA’s Amended and
Restated Moving to Work Agreement. Amendment No. 2 allows the CHA to reconcile the total
number of public housing units to be removed from its inventory by 1,121 units above and
beyond the allocation of 20,757 public housing units set forth in the first amendment to the
CHA’s original MTW Agreement, dated January 18, 2001, as well as in Provision 3 of
Attachment D of the Restated MTW Agreement. HUD has authorized this reconciliation as a
result of its own identification of 1,121 CHA public housing units that were approved for
demolition during the term of the CHA’s original MTW Agreement and for which the CHA did
not request replacement vouchers. Amendment No. 2 authorizes the CHA to apply for public
housing replacement vouchers for the designated 1,121 units, which were approved for
demolition during the original term of the CHA’s MTW Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-26
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2009, requesting authorization to approve Amendment No. 2 to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Amended and Restated Moving to Work Agreement, and
authorization for the Chief Executive Officer to execute Amendment No. 2 to the
Amended and Restated Moving to Work Agreement, hereto attached.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves Amendment No. 2 to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Amended and Restated Moving to Work Agreement.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby grants authorization to the Chief Executive
Officer to execute the Amendment No. 2 to the Chicago Housing Authority’s
Amended and Restated Moving to Work Agreement on behalf of the CHA.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Item C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.

10

 There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 