MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
January 17, 2017
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, January 17, 2017, at approximately 12:05 p.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairman John Hooker commenced the meeting by introducing Cristina Matos, who was recently
appointed by Mayor Rahm Emanuel to complete the unexpired term of Commissioner Harriet Johnson.
Commissioner Matos is the first-ever Hispanic resident to serve on the CHA Board of Commissioners;
she is a resident of the Southeast Scattered Sites and is a board member at Immaculate Conception
Parish. Commissioner Matos was warmly welcomed with applause by the Board, CHA staff and the
public at large.
Chairman Hooker then called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Jack Markowski

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Chairman Hooker announced a change in the order of the agenda as follows: Public Participation
followed by Closed Session and finally the Business Portion of the meeting.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
At the conclusion of public participation and upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly
seconded by Commissioner Chico, the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately one hour to discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington

Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Jack Markowski

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
In the absence of Committee Chair John Markowski, Commissioner Chico presented the Finance &
Audit committee report. Per Commissioner Chico the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting at 8:30 a.m. today at the CHA Corporate Offices, 60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in
Chicago, IL. Commissioner Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee chaired
the meeting and the following Committee members were present: Commissioners Brewer, Markowski,
Harte and Matos. Present also but not counted for the quorum were Chairman Hooker, Vice-Chairman
Chico and Commissioner Washington. Committee members then voted to adjourn to closed session to
discuss certain audit reviews and investigatory matters. Committee members then returned to open
session and discussed, voted and recommended for approval Items No. 1 and 2.
On behalf of the Finance & Audit Committee, Commissioner Chico presented a motion for approval of
Item No. 1.
(Item 1)
The resolution for Item 1 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with City of Chicago for a 2year base term from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2018 to provide High Volume and Specialty
Printing Services, in the not-to-exceed amounts of: $515,043 for a two (2) year base term; $260,553 for
the first one (1) year option term; $260,553 for the second one (1) year option term; $260,553 for the
third one (1) year option term; for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $1,296,702. The Board
delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use his discretion to exercise the options. The
Chief Executive Officer shall not exercise more than one option in any year. In the past, CHA has used
outside vendors to provide duplication services. Staff met with the City of Chicago’s Graphics and
Reproduction Center to discuss the printing and duplication services available at the City. The Center
provides service to 40 City departments and five sister agencies. Given the Center’s ability to provide
these services, it is in the best interest of CHA to enter into an intergovernmental agreement. This will
result in an approximate savings of $1.2M over the fiver-year period based on our cost analysis summary
of bidders for high volume printing.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-1
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled “Authorization to enter into an
2

 Intergovernmental Agreement with City of Chicago for High Volume and Specialty
Printing”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago for High
Volume and Specialty Printing.

(Item 2 – Deferred: Recommendation to enter into contract with Yardi Systems, Inc. for
professional services to implement upgrades and enhancements to the Yardi Housing
Management System.)
Item No. 2 was deferred by the Real Estate Operations Development Committee members, for
consideration at the February 21, 2017 meeting, to allow CHA staff and Yardi representatives to
consider career pathway opportunities for CHA residents at Yardi’s corporate and field offices or other
methods of Section 3 engagement by Yardi.
The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Meghan Harte, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her report.
Per Commissioner Harte, the Tenant Services Committee held its monthly meeting earlier today.
Commissioner Harte chaired the meeting and the following committee members were present as well:
Commissioners Chico, Harris, Matos and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker and Commissioners
Brewer and Markowski were also present, they were not counted towards the quorum. Committee
member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the four items appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee Commissioner Harte presented a Motion for approval of
Item 3.
(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves the amendment of Contract No. 11646 with the Chicago Cook
Workforce Partnership (CCWP) in an amount not-to-exceed $300,000.00, and of Contract No. 11645
with Metropolitan Family Services (MFS) in an amount not-to-exceed $778,880.00, to provide Jobs Plus
program services for CHA residents. The aggregate amount of this approval is $1,078,880.00. The
3

 purpose of the Jobs Plus program is to develop locally-based, job-driven approaches to increase earnings
and advance employment outcomes through work readiness, employer linkages, job placement,
educational advancement, technology skills, and financial literacy; Altgeld residents are the target
population for this pilot program. On May 13, 2015, the CHA Board of Commissioners authorized the
ratification and acceptance of the Jobs Plus grant award from HUD and the execution of sub-agreements
with CCWP and MFS. As HUD has evaluated the implementation of the Jobs Plus program nationwide,
they have made two changes that necessitate this request. First, HUD extended the grant cycle end date,
which will require an amendment of the sub-agreement end dates; and second, HUD has required public
housing agencies to use general operating funds to mitigate the loss in revenue for Jobs Plus Earned
Income Disregard (JPEID), rather than the Jobs Plus grant. Based upon these changes, HUD has
instructed grant recipients to submit a revised grant budget. The change in reimbursement of JPEID
allows more funding to be expended for direct participant services, which requires amendment of CCWP
and MFS sub-agreement budgets. Amendment of the sub-agreement budget will extend CCWP’s
contract to create a customer choice model which will provide 100 additional and new participants the
opportunity to enroll in a training program to gain marketable skills. CCWP will procure a new vendor
to leverage funds for training in high-demand industries and assist with job placement. The amended
budget for the MFS sub-agreement will transition the resident Career Coaches to full time status; cover
costs associated with research-based programs designed to empower and equip participants to become
self-sufficient; cover costs associated with technical assistance needs to enhance program service and
allow for opportunities to leverage resources to offset the cost of career preparation resources related to
FamilyWorks services at Altgeld Gardens.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-2
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled “RECOMMENDATION
CONTRACTS WITH METROPOLITAN FAMILY SERVICES
CHICAGO COOK WORKFORCE PARTNERSHIP TO PROVIDE
PROGRAM SERVICES”.

reviewed the
TO AMEND
AND THE
JOBS PLUS

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Chief Executive Officer recommends that the Board of Commissioners of the
Chicago Housing Authority authorize the amendment of Contract No. 11646 with the
Chicago Cook Workforce Partnership in an amount not-to-exceed $300,000.00, and
of Contract No. 11645 with Metropolitan Family Services in an amount not-to-exceed
$778,880.00 to provide Jobs Plus program services for CHA residents.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item 3 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
4

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Harris, Markowski and Washington. Although Chairman
Hooker and Commissioners Chico and Harte were also present they were not counted towards the
quorum. Committee member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the eight items
appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items No. 4 through 11.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves amendments to Contract No. 11429 with CVR Associates, Inc. and to
Contract No. 11430 with Nan McKay & Associates (NMA) to exercise the second option terms and
provide additional compensation in amounts not-to-exceed $19,926,125 and $9,762,467, respectively,
and further to provide additional compensation of $319,764.00 to the first option period total for
Contract No. 11430 to cover an expected funding shortfall due to an increase in the number of vouchers
being administered, for aggregate total compensation amounts of $72,675,045.00 for Contract 11429 and
$37,741,647.00 for Contract 11430.The CHA HCV Program has been organized into administrative
components in order to provide consistent communication, an adequate separation of duties and higher
quality of services across the program. These extensions are necessary to ensure the continuation of the
program operations and provide consistent services.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-3
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE THE SECOND OPTION TERM OF CONTRACTS WITH CVR
ASSOCIATES, INC. AND NAN MCKAY & ASSOCIATES FOR HCV
ADMINISTRATION”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute amendments to Contract No. 11429 with CVR Associates, Inc. (“CVR”) and
to Contract No. 11430 with Nan McKay & associates (“NMA”) to exercise the
second option terms and provide for additional compensation in amounts not-toexceed $19,926,125.00 and $9,762,467.00, respectively, and further to provide
additional compensation of $319,764.00 to the first option period total for Contract
No. 11430 to cover an expected funding shortfall due to an increase in the number of
vouchers being administered, for aggregate total compensation amounts of
$72,675,045.00 for Contract 11429 and $37,741,647.00 for Contract 11430.
Furthermore, the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to modify and/or negotiate the duration of the second option terms with
5

 CVR and NMA to align with applicable transition or other efforts and initiatives as
the CHA deems advisable.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.
(Item 5)
Pursuant to HUD regulations, CHA is required to implement an administrative plan to govern its
Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Program. The HCV Administrative Plan provides required information
on the rules CHA will follow in the administration of the HCV Program. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item No. 5 approves the FY2017 HCV Administrative Plan that contains updated and minor policy
changes as needed to be consistent with HUD requirements and current practice. CHA held two 30-day
public comment periods. Announcements for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s website
and in the Chicago Defender; Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy newspapers. CHA also distributed resident
notices across public housing properties and sent an email notification to HCV participants. During the
public comment periods, both residents and the public alike were able to submit comments orally and in
writing, regarding the information contained in the Proposed FY2017 HCV Administrative Plan. CHA
held five public hearings during the two 30-day comment periods. Prior to finalizing the Proposed
FY2017 HCV Administrative Plan, CHA gave consideration to comments received during the public
comment period. Public comments and CHA responses were provided to the Board prior to approval
and were available to the public on the CHA website. Summary of the major changes include change in
arrest language; earned income disallowance benefits; criminal look-back period for determining
eligibility and continued participation; reporting of minor’s social security number; reorganization and
expansion of Wait List Preference and clarification of the reasonable accommodation language. The
2017 HCV Administrative Plan is posted on the CHA website.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-4
The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 17, 2017
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2017 HCV Administrative Plan, attached
hereto;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2017 HCV
Administrative Plan and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary;

THAT,

This approval of the Proposed FY2017 HCV Administrative Plan supersedes any and
all conflicting language found in prior CHA HCV Administrative Plans;

THAT,

The Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2017
HCV Administrative Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development upon Board approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item 6)
The resolution for Item No. 6 approves the FY2017 Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy
(ACOP). The CHA’s ACOP governs the admissions and continued occupancy of CHA owned public
housing units. The majority of the FY2017 updates to the policy were minor alterations, however, some
6

 changes included HUD regulatory updates as well as general revisions to promote organizational and
policy improvements. CHA held two 30-day public comment periods. Announcements for the public
comment process appeared on CHA’s website and were in the Chicago Defender, Chicago Sun-Times
and Hoy newspapers. CHA also distributed resident notices across public housing properties and sent an
email notification to HCV participants. During the public comment periods, both residents and the
public at large were able to submit oral and written comments regarding the information contained in the
Proposed FY2017 ACOP. CHA held five public hearings during the two 30-day comment periods. Prior
to finalizing the Proposed FY2017 ACOP, CHA gave consideration to comments received during the
public comment period. Public comments and CHA responses were provided to the Board prior to
approval and were available to the public on the CHA website.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-5
The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 17, 2017
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2017 Admissions and Continued Occupancy
Policy (ACOP), attached hereto;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2017 ACOP and
grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the Board Chairperson, or their
designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary;

THAT,

This approval of the Proposed FY2017 ACOP supersedes any and all conflicting
language found in prior CHA ACOPs;

THAT,

The Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2017
ACOP to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development upon Board
approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval
of any and all such changes.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to proceed with the Rental Assistance
Demonstration (RAD) financing plan process and enter into a RAD Conversion Commitment with HUD
for Schneider Apartments; commit CHA funds not to exceed $5,500,000 to fund initial deposits to the
replacement reserves and limited rehabilitation work, as well as transaction costs; execute a Housing
Assistance Payment (HAP) contract and such other documents as may be required for the financing and
operation of Schneider Apartments; transfer ownership of the improvements to Chicago Housing
Administration LLC and execute a 99-year ground lease for the underlying land. Schneider Apartments,
located at 1750 W. Peterson, is a 13-story building designated as senior public housing that currently
contains 173 residential rental units (excluding two non-dwelling units that will potentially convert to
dwelling units upon RAD conversion). The building needs elevator modernization but very limited
rehabilitation. Two units that are currently being used as storage space may be converted to dwelling
units; therefore, CHA plans to submit a financing plan for a total of 175 units. HUD has documented
in its RAD Notice and in other supporting documentation that the contract administrator and the owner
of the converted RAD properties cannot be the same legal entity. Because CHA intends to assume, for
all of the portfolio properties converting to RAD, the role of contract administrator for each RAD HAP
Contract, a separate entity, Chicago Housing Administration LLC has been established, pursuant to
Resolution No. 2015-CHA-109, to own certain CHA properties converting to RAD. CHA is the sole
member of Chicago Housing Administration LLC. At the RAD conversion closing, CHA will transfer
7

 ownership of the improvements to Chicago Housing Administration LLC and execute a 99-year Ground
Lease for the underlying land. It is anticipated that CHA will lend capital funds to Chicago Housing
Administration LLC to cover the cost related to the needed elevator modernization and common area
work.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-6
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 requesting authorization to proceed with
submission of a financing plan under the Rental Assistance Demonstration program
as well as execute and deliver such documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to execute a Housing
Assistance Payment Contract under the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development Rental Assistance Demonstration program and execute such
other documents as may be required for the financing and operation of the Subject
Property.
(Item 8)
A Request for Proposals was released in September 2016 to provide armed and unarmed security
services at various CHA properties. A total of ten responsive proposals were received before the due
date. The Evaluation Committee reviewed and scored the proposals, which resulted in five vendors who
scored within the competitive range and moving to the Oral Presentation phase. Based on the
recommendation of the Evaluation Committee, the following three vendors with the highest overall
evaluation scores are being recommended for award: AGB Investigative Services, Inc.; Kates Detective
& Security Agency and Allpoints Security and Detective, Inc. All three firms are certified M/W/DBE
and Section 3 Business Concerns. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 8 approves the award of
contracts to the recommended contractors in an aggregate amount of $110,459,597 consisting of an
original contract value of $53,675,328 for a two-year base term from February 20, 2017 through
February 19, 2019; plus 2 option years in the amount of $56,784,269 to provide armed and unarmed
security services at various CHA properties. The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive
Officer to use his discretion to exercise the options. The Chief Executive Officer shall not exercise more
than one option in any year. The scope of work expected of the selected respondents includes those
services customarily associated with security services, including ensuring that CHA's properties
consistently provide a safe and secure environment for residents, staff and the community; and
complying with all requirements of the RFP and CHA safety and security procedures.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-7
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENTS WITH AGB INVESTIGATIVE
SERVICES, INC., KATES DETECTIVE & SECURITY AGENCY, AND
ALLPOINTS SECURITY AND DETECTIVE, INC. TO PROVIDE SECURITY
SERVICES AT VARIOUS CHA PROPERTIES”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
8

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into contracts with the recommended contractors for an aggregate amount of
$110,459,597 consisting of an original contract value of $53,675,328 for a two-year
base term from February 20, 2017 through February 19, 2019; plus 2 option years in
the amount of $56,784,269 to provide armed and unarmed security services at various
CHA properties. The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use
his discretion to exercise the options. The Chief Executive Officer shall not exercise
more than one option in any year.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 9)
The resolution for item 9 approves an A Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) and Housing
Assistance Payment Contract (HAP) for Brainerd Park Apartments, Mark Twain Apartments and Tierra
Linda Apartments. Brainerd Park Apartment is a 36-unit, new construction building for families
located at 8900 South Loomis in a Limited area in the Washington Heights community. There will be 9
PRA units, consisting of 2 1-bedroom, 3 2-bedroom, 3 3-bedroom, and 1 4-bedroom apartments. The
target population for PRA units will be families from CHA waitlists. Building amenities include a
community room; computer lab with library space and free internet; laundry room; as well as office
space for management, social services and maintenance. On-site parking will be available for residents
and their guests. A play area and community garden are planned. A dedicated Mobile Health Stand
will be made available at the building which will include medical and dental services. On-site social
services will be available to all residents, but will not be a requirement for occupancy. Christian
Community Health Center (CCHC) will provide on-site social services and will lease 9 of the remaining
units (25%) to clients through CCHC’s supportive housing programs for homeless families. Brainerd
Park Apartments is co-owned by Full Circle Communities Inc. (FCC) and Christian Community Health
Center (CCHC). FCC will provide property management services. Mark Twain Apartments is a
vintage, 5-story, elevator building that opened in 1932 and is located at 111 W. Division on the edge of
the Gold Coast historic district. The redevelopment project is part of the City’s SRO Preservation
initiative and is located in a General Area in the Near North Side community. The property currently
contains 153 units. After redevelopment, 148 studio units will be available with eight fully accessible
and eight adaptable units, all buildings systems will be repaired or replaced, and an improved security
system with FOB keys and high resolution security cameras installed. PRA will assist 126 studio units.
Approximately 10% of the units are currently vacant. Existing residents will have right of first return.
All vacancies will be filled from the CHA Waitlist. Building amenities will include a roof-top deck,
community room, computer room with library area, laundry room, as well as offices for management
and social services. On-site property management will be provided by Heartland Housing. New Mark
Twain, LLC sole managing member is The NHP Foundation (NHPF), a non-profit organization
dedicated to making investments that preserve and create affordable multi-family housing for low to
moderate-income families.
Terra Linda Apartments will be a new construction, scattered site
development on vacant lots in fully developed, residential areas in the Logan Square, Humboldt Park,
and West Town communities. The sites are in General Areas, and are adjacent to Opportunity Areas.
Latin United Community Housing Association (LUCHA) will build twelve new construction buildings
containing a total of 45 family units - 9 1-bedroom, 18 2-bedroom, and 18 3-bedroom apartments.
Construction consists of nine 3-unit and three 6-unit, 3-story buildings with brick or siding exteriors that
complement the surrounding neighborhood. PRA will assist 11 units in 7 of the buildings - 2 1bedroom, 5 2-bedroom, and 4 3-bedroom apartments. PRA units will assist families from CHA
waitlists. Unit amenities include Energy Star rated appliances with in-unit washer-dryers, refrigerators,
dishwashers, ranges, microwaves and ceiling fans. Off-street parking is planned for each property.
9

 Tierra Linda Limited Partnership through Tierra Linda Limited Liability Corporation of which Latin
United Community Housing Association (LUCHA) is the sole member. LUCHA will provide property
management for the Tierra Linda Apartments.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-8
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled “Recommendation to Execute 1) an
Agreement to enter into A Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) for A)
Brainerd Park Apartments, B) Mark Twain Apartments, C) Tierra Linda Apartments;
2) a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (HAP) for A) Brainerd Park Apartments,
B) Mark Twain Apartments, C) Tierra Linda Apartments ; and 3) all other documents
as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute 1) an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract
(AHAP) for A) Brainerd Park Apartments, B) Mark Twain Apartments, C) Tierra
Linda Apartments; and 2) Housing Assistance Payment Contract (HAP) for A)
Brainerd Park Apartments, B) Mark Twain Apartments, C) Tierra Linda Apartments;
and 3) all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.”

(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 approves Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Stateway Associates LLC or
other related entity in an amount not to exceed $729,156 for Park Boulevard Phase IIIB Rental and 2)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the foregoing. The Stateway Gardens (Stateway) development was originally situated on
approximately 33 acres within the near south side Douglas community area (also referred to as the
Bronzeville neighborhood) of the city of Chicago (City) and was located between E. 35 th Street (North),
S. State Street (East), E. Pershing Street (South) and Metra Railway line (West). Built between 1955
and 1958, Stateway was one of CHA’s largest developments with 1644 units in 8 (six 17-story and two
10-Story) gallery style high rise buildings along the South State Street Corridor. Stateway Gardens also
included a community center/park field house, pool, management office and daycare. Demolition of all
buildings was completed in 2007. Park Boulevard is the new mixed income community developed on
the former Stateway site by Stateway Associates LLC, the Developer. The members of Stateway
Associates LLC are: Mesa Stateway Associates LLC, Walsh Venture Management LLC, and JLM
Investment LLC. The members of Stateway Associates LLC through various affiliates have developed in
excess of 4,500 residential units. Stateway Associates LLC has completed a total of 475 rental and
homeownership units and 18,000 square feet of retail on the former Stateway Gardens site. The Park
Boulevard community provides diverse quality housing opportunities to accommodate different
lifestyles. The community has become a vibrant Chicago neighborhood surrounded by Chicago
institutions and amenities including the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT), the Chicago White Sox
Guaranteed Rate Field, Chicago Police Headquarters, Bee Branch Library and Dawson Technical
Institute. The community is also a Transit Orientated Development (TOD) located within blocks of
three transit stations: the new 35th Street Metra Stop, CTA’s 35th Street Green and Red line stops, all
providing a 10-minute ride to the Loop. Park Boulevard has also contributed to the economic growth
and re-activation of 35th Street with its multi- use ground floor retail that includes the area’s first
10

 Starbucks, and national retailers such as: FedEx/Kinkos, PNC Bank, and Jimmy John’s. Local
entrepreneurs have rounded out the retail component with pizza, popcorn, and yogurt shops. Park
Boulevard is a prominent gateway to Chicago’s Southside. Phase III will be implemented in two
separate and distinct phases known as Park Boulevard IIIA For-Sale and IIIB Rental. Collectively, both
phases of redevelopment will complete development on the central portion of the former CHA Stateway
Garden site between 36th St. and 37th St. The Phase III redevelopment will further the CHA’s efforts of
providing units to satisfy CHA’s Right to Return obligation at the Stateway site. Phase IIIA For-Sale
plans to provide 40 for-sale single family homes with affordable price ranges. This For-Sale phase will
be built in 3 sub-phases based on market demand. Phase IIIB Rental plans includes two (2) five story
elevator buildings, two (2) 4 flat buildings and three (3) 3-story townhome structures to provide a total
of 92 rental housing opportunities, including 31 units for CHA families and 61 affordable units. The
subject resolution will authorize CHA to enter into a predevelopment loan agreement in the total amount
of $729,156 to provide loan funds to Stateway Associates for predevelopment services for the
development of Park Boulevard Phase IIIB Rental. The proposed predevelopment loan will not exceed
75% of eligible third party costs for rental units only, consistent with U.S. Department of Urban
Development cost control guidelines and regulation. The total Phase 3 predevelopment loan budget is
$972,208 and the Developer will cover the remaining 25% costs. The loan funds will help fund a portion
of predevelopment costs which include but are not limited to architect, engineering, design development
and construction documents, permit fees, legal services, surveys, market studies and other related real
estate services. All predevelopment loan funds will be repaid to CHA at the Phase IIIB Rental
transaction closing.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-9
The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017, entitled “Authorization to 1) Enter into a
Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Stateway Associates LLC or other related
entity in an amount not to exceed $729,156 for Park Boulevard Phase IIIB Rental and
2) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Stateway Associates LLC or
other related entity in an amount not to exceed $729,156 for Park Boulevard Phase
IIIB Rental and 2) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 11)
In 2016 CHA and Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives (CNI) entered into discussions about providing new
recreational amenities for CHA residents on the far south side through the proposed Pullman
Community Center (PCC). The PCC evolved from a year-long, comprehensive community planning
process and is part of an overall community revitalization strategy. CNI is the developer for PCC and is
working with the Roseland Youth Center and the Chicago Park District (CPD) to plan the sports and
academic programming for the facility. This center will serve CHA and other community residents on
the greater far south side including opportunities for approximately 6,600 CHA youth from ages 5-17
including more than 4,800 CHA youth supported through HCV and PRA voucher programs and
approximately 1,740 CHA youth residing at the Altgeld/Murray, Trumbull, and Lowden Homes plus
11

 families and seniors from these CHA developments. Residents in these surrounding developments will
benefit from the new space, programming and activities for youth, adults and seniors unlike any other
nearby facility. The PCC will provide the following for CHA residents: first priority for 10% of all
programming slots; 10% of every team roster reserved for CHA residents and all fees and program costs
associated with the 10% programming slots shall be waived. CHA residents shall also have a first
priority to use 10% of all program slots for any free program provided by the Park District to the general
public at no costs to CHA residents and at no cost to CHA. Transportation will also be provided between
Altgeld/Murray, Trumbull, Lowden Homes and the PCC on Monday-Saturday at no cost to CHA
residents. CNI plans to develop the $19 million PCC with New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC) equity,
public funding and philanthropic capital. CNI requests $2 million from CHA for construction of the new
community center. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 11 approves an amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 to Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives to construct a new community center at 104th and S.
Woodlawn Avenue and to execute an agreement with Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives.
Commissioner Harte recused from voting on Item No. 11 since CNI may be applying to LISC
(Commissioner Harte’s employer) for new market tax credits.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-10
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled Authorization to 1) Provide CHA funds
in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000 to Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives to
construct a new community center at 104th and S. Woodlawn Avenue and 2) Execute
an agreement with Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives or related entity in furtherance
of this resolution.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
1) Provide CHA funds in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000 to Chicago
Neighborhood Initiatives to construct a new community center at 104th and S.
Woodlawn Avenue and 2) Execute an agreement with Chicago Neighborhood
Initiatives or related entity in furtherance of this resolution.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 4 through 11 was seconded by Commissioner Matos and
the voting was as follows:

Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte (Recused from voting on Item No. 11)
John Hooker
Cristina Matos
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
12

 Chairman Hooker then informed Board members that at the December 6, 2016 Board Meeting,
Commissioners approved Resolution No. 2016-CHA-131 to execute HAP contracts for Property Rental
Assistance at Roosevelt Towers Apartments and Leland Apartments. The Board Letter for Roosevelt
Towers Apartment reflected the correct initial estimated contract amount of $113,400 monthly.
However, the total estimated annual contract amount for the subsidy projections was listed incorrectly
due to a scrivener’s error. Chairman Hooker then presented a Motion to correct the Board Letter to
reflect the total estimated annual amount of $1,360,800. The Motion was properly seconded by
Commissioner Chico and Resolution No. 2016-CHA-131 was approved as corrected.
Chairman Hooker then announced that during Closed Session Commissioners discussed Items 12 and
13. A motion to approve Items 12 and 13 was presented by Commissioner Washington.
(Item 12)
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-11
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 17, 2017 entitled “Recommendation to 1) Acquire an 18unit residential building at 7163-7169 West Grand Avenue for public housing; 2)
Negotiate and execute acquisition and related financing documents; and 3) Perform
such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
1) Acquire an 18-unit residential building at 7163-7169 West Grand Avenue for
public housing; 2) Negotiate and execute acquisition and related financing
documents; and 3) Perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing, subject to HUD approval.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 ratifies the following personnel actions: offer of employment to 16 applicants;
promotion of eight current employees and termination of one employee.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2017–CHA-12
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 17, 2017,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 12 and 13 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
13

 Cristina Matos
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by Commissioner
Brewer and seconded by Commissioner Matos, the board meeting of January 17, 2017 was adjourned at
approximately 1:45 pm.

________________________________
John Hooker, Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

14

 