MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 17, 2004
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
August 17, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at the Patrick Sullivan Senior Apartments, 1633 West Madison,
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Sandra Young
Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson’s
report focused on residents’ participation in CHA sponsored summer activities including
participation of 1,700 children in the Park District Summer Program, attendance of 1,050
children at the House of Kicks for a day filled with fun games and activities and the turnout of
more than 500 kids who joined CHA staff and resident leadership at the Bud Biliken parade. Mr.
Peterson then urged all parents to make sure that their children are registered and ready to start
school. An advocate of education, Mr. Peterson concluded his report by listing different
approaches on making the school year a more enjoyable and successful experience.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.

1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Amey then
presented a Motion to approve Executive Session Item 1.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-90
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 2, 2004 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Actions Reports for June and July 2004.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Reports for
June and July 2004.

The Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
In the absence of Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee,
Commissioner Ivers presented the Tenant Service Committee report. Per Commissioner Ivers,
the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, August 11,
2004, at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
In June 2003, the Board of Commissioners approved Resolution No. 2003-CHA-82 to enter into
a Contract with BMH-I, LLC to provide funding for Needs Assessment and Case Management
Services for Henry Horner Mid-Rise Residents in an amount not to exceed $225,000. However,
in the June 2003 Resolution there was an oversight in the not to exceed amount. The amount
should have read an amount not to exceed $450,000 for the two year term. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A1 amends Resolution 2003-CHA-82 from $225,000 to an amount not to
exceed $450,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-91
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 17,
2004, “Authorization to Amend Contract Amount in Resolution No. 2003-CHA82 For Needs Assessment and Case Management Services for the Henry Horner
Mid-Rise Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend the contract amount in Resolution No. 2003-CHA-82 for needs
assessment and case management services for the Henry Horner Mid-Rise
Residents from $225,000.00, to an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $450,000.00
for the two year contract period.

2

 (Item A2)
In December 2001, the Board of Commissioners approved Resolution No. 2001-CHA-180 to
accept an award of a Youthbuild Implementation Grant from the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development for the amount of $499,756.00. The Youthbuild Program is intended to
provide pre-apprenticeship skills training to 16-24 year old youth that have dropped out of high
school or are unemployed. CHA received approval from HUD to redirect up to $225,000.00. of
Youthbuild funds to the CPS/ Amer-I-Can initiative. The Amer- I-Can initiative is a mentoring
program for at-risk high school students enrolled in the Chicago Public School (CPS) system. A
group of volunteer mentors act as role models while providing exposure to trades such as
carpentry, painting and ornamental ironwork through “hands-on” training in the refurbishment
and replacement of defective auditorium seating. Amer-I-Can is nationally recognized and is
located in eleven states besides Illinois. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves
redirecting remaining Youthbuild funds to the CPS/Amer-I-Can initiative.
RESOLUTION NO.2004-CHA-92
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 4,
2004, titled “Authorization to Redirect Remaining Youthbuild Funds and Enter
into an Intergovernmental Agreement with Chicago Public Schools”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to Redirect Remaining Youthbuild Funds and Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with Chicago Public Schools in amount not to
exceed $225,000.00 for a term of seventeen (17) months from the scheduled
effective date of September 1, 2004, concluding on January 30, 2006.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then presented the
Operations & Facilities Committee Report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facilities
Committee met on Wednesday, August 11, 2004. No presentations were scheduled to come
before this Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B9, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1 and B2)
At the request of Management, the Capital Construction Division (CCD) has reviewed the status
of Time and Material (T&M) contracts with selected contractors to reconsider the best utilization
of their remaining contract capacity. As a result of the reviews, staff has determined that it would
be in the best economic interest of the CHA to discontinue issuing any further task orders to
these contractors. The remaining capacity of their time and material contracts will be reallocated
and utilized for outstanding projects. These funds will be redistributed to those T&M contractors
who have earned the highest ratings under the Average 2004 Overall Performance Evaluation
Rating system developed by CCD in cooperation with the Managing Owner’s Representative,
McKissack & McKissack. The value of the remaining capacity is $ 2,004,993.00. Accordingly,

3

 the resolutions for Items B1 and B2 approve amendment of Contracts with Old Veterans
Construction, Inc. and New Day Construction not to exceed $1,000,000.00 each. The additional
capacity will be partially used to meet pressing demands for the renovation of thirty (30) units at
Washington Park Homes. These units are needed to house residents who will be relocated as
demolition is continued at selected developments, and to meet commitments to the current
residents of Washington Park Homes. Other locations that may be affected are Cabrini, LeClaire
Courts, Altgeld Gardens, Dearborn Homes, and Harold Ickes Homes. This is an interim measure.
CCD and the Procurement Department are already processing an Invitation for Bid (IFB) for new
time and materials construction contracts utilizing the Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity
format. It is expected that the new time and materials contracts will be in place in the Fall of FY
2004.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA -93
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 29, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to amend Contract No. 0419 with Old Veterans
Construction, Inc. in the not-to-exceed amount of $1,000,000”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0419 with Old Veterans Construction, Inc. for
time and material work to increase the current not to exceed contract amount by
$1,000,000.00. The new not to exceed contract amount, including this
amendment, will be $3,000,000.00.

(Item B2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-94
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 29, 2004,
entitled “Ratification of Amendment to Contract No.9752 with New Day
Construction in the not-to-exceed amount of $1,000,000”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

Board of Commissioners ratifies the amendment to Contract No. 9752 with New
Day Construction for time and material work to increase the current not to exceed
contract amount by $1,000,000.00. The new not to exceed contract amount will be
$3,000,000.00.

(Item B3)
The Authority has very successfully utilized time and materials contractors throughout the
Scattered Sites and Make Ready programs. A new solicitation for time and materials contractors
is currently being processed to support increasing demands on the FY 2004 – FY 2006 Scattered
Site and Make Ready programs. These programs are vital to meeting the unit goals of the CHA
for FY 2004. The temporary relocation of residents due to demolition and renovation is
extremely dependent upon providing alternative housing in Make Ready and Scattered Sites
locations. Recent revisions in construction and demolition schedules have raised the need to
accelerate the work in the Make Ready and Scattered Sites programs in order to provide a larger
number of units in FY 2004 than originally anticipated. Staff has determined that allocating
additional funds to current time and materials contractors would be an efficient and cost effective
way to keep work flowing in these two (2) programs while the new solicitation is processed.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves adding an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$3,000,000.00 to the following four (4) highly performing current time and materials contractors:
C&H Joint Venture, Done Rite, G. F. Structures and Telander. These contractors were chosen
because of their strong showing in the 2004 Overall Performance Evaluation Rating system.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-95
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 28, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to amend up to Four (4) Time & Materials Contracts in an
aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $3,000,000”:

4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend up to four time and materials contracts to C&H Joint Venture,
Done Rite Construction, G.F. Structures Corporation and Telander Construction
by an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $3,000,000.00, subject to concurrence
by the Contracting Officer of the specific value per contract.
The time of completion the various contracts will not be extended.

(Item B4)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in May 2004 in area newspapers for masonry repairs at
Las Americas Apartments. The CHA also faxed flyers to twenty-four (24) firms, including nine
(9) MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Five Bids were received and staff conducted Pre-Award Surveys
with the two (2) lowest bidders. After reviewing the bids, staff determined the lowest responsive
and responsible bidder to be All-Bry Construction Company. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B4 approves award of contract to All-Bry Construction Company in the amount of
$364,000.00 subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3
resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004 - CHA - 96
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 21, 2004,
entitled Authorization to execute a contract with All-Bry Construction Company
for masonry repairs at the Las Americas (16th & Racine) Apartments (IL2-083);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with All-Bry Construction Company in the amount
of $364,250.00 for masonry repairs at Las Americas (16th & Racine) Apartments
(IL2-083) at 1611 S. Racine Avenue. The contract will be awarded for a term of
one hundred fifty (150) calendar days from the date of the Notice to Proceed,
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in June 2004 for Senior Housing site improvements at
Eckhart Park Apartments (IL2-42B), Eckhart Park Annex (IL2-067), Wicker Park Apartments
(IL2-42E), Wicker Park Annex (IL2-068), Franklin & Drake Apartments (IL2-45A), and South
Chicago Towers Apartments (IL2-080). The IFB was advertised in area newspapers and flyers
were mailed to six (6) firms, including two (2) MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the 3 bids opened,
staff determined the lowest responsive and responsible bidder to be All-Bry Construction.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award of contract to All-Bry Construction in
the amount of $1,999,000.00, subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA - 97
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 3, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with All-Bry Construction Company
for Site Improvements at Eckhart Park Apartments (IL2-42B), Eckhart Park
Annex (IL2-067), Wicker Park Apartments (IL2-42E), Wicker Park Annex (IL2068), Franklin & Drake Apartments (IL2-45A), and South Chicago Towers
Apartments (IL2-080)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with All-Bry Construction Company in the amount
of $1,999,000.00 for Senior Housing site improvements at Eckhart Park
Apartments (IL2-42B), 838 N. Noble; Eckhart Park Annex (IL2-067), 847 N.
Greenview; Wicker Park Apartments (IL2-42E), 1414 N. Damen; Wicker Park
Annex (IL2-068), 2020 W. Schiller; Franklin & Drake Apartments (IL2-45A),
440 N. Drake; and South Chicago Tower Apartments (IL2-080), 9141-9177 S.
South Chicago Avenue. The contract will require that the work be completed

5

 within ninety (90) days from the date of the Notice to Proceed, exclusive of
Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays This award is subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
insurance requirements.
(Item B6)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid in May 2004 to modernize the Family Housing at
Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue. The IFB was advertised in the area
newspapers and also mailed flyers to 24 firms, including 10 M/W/DBE firms. The CHA received
and opened five (5) bids on July 2, 2004 at 10:00 am. Staff conducted a routine pre-award
survey to ensure that it selected the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. The scope and size
of CHA’s construction projects in furtherance of the Plan for Transformation require that the
CHA perform certain due diligence, including a pre-award survey to ensure the selection of a
contractor with the requisite technical and financial profile that will be able to perform according
to its submitted bid. The consequences of selecting a contractor that cannot perform according to
its bid are significant and serious, including, among other things, substantial delays in the work,
cost increases, adverse impact on relocation efforts, and an overall slowing of the Plan for
Transformation. Najlia was the lowest bidder, with a bid of $15,452,141.25. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Najlia, subject to its compliance with
CHA’s insurance requirements, submittal of proper bonding, and proof of adequate mobilization
resources, including a line of credit in an amount not less than $1,500,000 dedicated exclusively
to the Wentworth project. If Najlia International fails to supply the required information within
this time period, the Chicago Housing Authority may withdraw the award of the contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA - 98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 28, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute a Contract with Najlia International for the
Family Housing Modernization at Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Najlia International in the amount of
$15,452,141.25 for the Family Housing modernization at Wentworth Gardens
(IL2-008), 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue.
The award of this contract to Najlia International is subject to Najlia
International’s compliance with CHA’s insurance requirements, submittal of
proper bonding, and proof of adequate mobilization resources, including, but not
limited to, a line of credit dedicated exclusively to the Wentworth project in the
amount of One Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,500,000). If Najlia
International has not secured the necessary mobilization resources, including the
Line of Credit, prior to passage of this Board resolution, Najlia will be notified by
a letter from the Department of Procurement and Contracts within five (5)
business days after the August 17, 2004 Board of Commissioners meeting that
they have five (5) business days from the date of the letter to furnish evidence
reasonably acceptable to the Chicago Housing Authority that they have secured
the required Line of Credit and other mobilization resources.
If Najlia International fails to supply the required information within this time
period, the Chicago Housing Authority may withdraw the award of the contract.

(Item B7)
In April 2004 the CHA advertised a Request for Proposals (RFP) to solicit proposals from
qualified firms to provide all necessary services to create and implement emergency evacuation
plans and high-rise building emergency procedures. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers
and flyers were mailed to two firms, including one MBE/WBE firm. Three proposals were
received and the firms were asked to make oral presentations to the Evaluation Committee. After
Best and Final Offers had been received, the committee determined that System
Development●Integration, Inc. (SD●I) had the best ability to provide authority-wide emergency
evacuation plans and high-rise building emergency procedures and would be the best “economic

6

 value” to the CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B7 approves award of contract to
System Development●Integration, Inc. (SD●I).
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 2, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute Contract with System Development
●Integration, Inc. to provide Authority-wide Emergency Evacuation Plans and
High Rise Building Emergency Procedures”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with System Development●Integration, Inc. in the
amount of $1,325,133.65 to provide authority-wide emergency evacuation plans
and high-rise building emergency procedures for both our residential and
administrative properties. This contract is subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance
requirements. This contract will cover all three groups detailed in Request for
Proposal No. 01303 and extend for three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days
from the date of the Notice to Proceed.

(Item B8)
In January 2004 the CHA advertised a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) to solicit submittals of a
Statement of Qualifications from professional, design-build firms for renovating the
administrative office buildings at 916 and 1000 S. Wabash Avenue. Firms were permitted to
subcontract, partner or make reasonable cooperative arrangements with other firms. Seven (7)
firms submitted qualifications in response to the RFQ. Of the seven firms who submitted
proposals three firms fell within the established competitive range. After presentations were
made to the Evaluation Committee by the three firms the Committee determined that OWP/P
Design/Build, Inc had the best ability to perform the design-build renovation of 916 and 1000
South Wabash Avenue, and offered the best “economic value” to the CHA. Negotiations then
continued with the recommended awardee with regards to conditions and amount of the contract.
A Guaranteed Maximum Price of $2,600,000.00 was reached during these negotiations.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B8 approves award of contract to OWP/P Design/Build, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-100
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 29, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute Contract with OWP/P Design/Build Inc. for
Design/Build services for the renovation of 916 and 1000 S. Wabash Ave”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with OWP/P Design/Build, Inc. for the Guaranteed
Maximum Price of $2,600,000.00 to provide design/build services for the
renovation of 916 and 1000 S. Wabash Avenue, subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
insurance requirements. The contract will extend three hundred sixty five (365)
calendar days from the date of the Notice to Proceed.

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves submission of a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD for the
Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B Redevelopment Project. The Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B rental
development represents the second phase of redevelopment within the larger Rockwell Gardens
Revitalization Plan to create 780 new mixed income rental and for-sale housing in the New West
Side community area. Phase I-B will make 92 units of rental housing available on parcels of
land that are contiguous to the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A development site, as well as initiate
construction on the CHA property situated “on-site” within the site boundaries of the traditional
Rockwell Gardens development. Fifty-seven (57) units will be set-aside as public housing units
under a mixed-finance amendment to the annual contribution contract C-1150 and restrictive
covenants, while all ninety-two units (including the 57 public housing) will be tax credit units
restricted to households earning 60% or less of area median income. Additionally, East Lake
7

 will develop 118 for-sale units as part of the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B homeownership
development activities. The CHA will retain ownership of the CHA-owned land underlying the
“on-site” parcels evidencing site control through a 99-year ground lease with the rental
development owner. The Phase I-B rental development will be owned by East Lake/West End IB, L.P., an Illinois limited partnership. East Lake Management & Development Corporation will
also guarantee completion of the units. The Phase I-B rental development will be financed using
low income housing tax credits, HOPE VI Revitalization funding, and a conventional mortgage
loan. The financing plan for Phase I-B totals approximately $21 million and is as follows: CHA
will loan up to $8,333,038 in HOPE VI Revitalization funds, secured by one or more junior
mortgages; Tax Credit Equity will provide approximately $10,018,442; and LaSalle Bank, the
developer’s first mortgage lender, will provide approximately $748,000. Pursuant to a
Regulatory and Operating Agreement, the CHA will provide an operating subsidy to the public
housing units within the development. The Phase I-B rental development will be located within
an area on approximately three (3) acres formerly known as Rockwell Gardens (‘on-site land’)
bounded by Adams Street on the North, Western Avenue on the East, Van Buren Street on the
South, and Campbell Avenue on the West, as well as a small off-site parcel adjacent to the Phase
IA site bound by Madison Avenue on the North, the U.S Railway line on the East (West of
Rockwell Street), Monroe Street on the South, and Washtenaw Street on the West.
RESOLUTION 2004-CHA-101
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 27, 2004,
requesting approval of the submission of a Mixed Finance Proposal to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Rockwell Gardens Phase
I-B redevelopment project and to execute other documents as may be required to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners approves the submission by the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee of a Mixed Finance Proposal to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development for the Rockwell Gardens Phase I-B
redevelopment project and, subject to any necessary HUD approvals, to execute
such documents and take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing, including but not limited to, entering into loan
documents, security instruments, a 99-year ground lease, an intercreditor
agreement, the regulatory and operating agreement, a right of first refusal,
declaration of restrictive covenants and an ACC amendment, and to approve any
final changes to such documents, and to execute such quit claim or other
instruments as may be deemed necessary or appropriate to clear title.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B9 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey (Recused from voting on Item B6 only)
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce (Recused from voting on Item B8 only)
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
In the absence of Martin Nesbitt, Committee Chair, Commissioner Lorie Healey presented the
Finance & Audit Committee report. Per Commissioner Healy, the Finance & Audit Committee
meeting was held on Wednesday, August 11, 2004 at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury

8

 and Cash Flow Report as of July 31, 2004; the 2nd Quarterly Grants Progress Report and the
Quarterly Financial Statement Report as of June 30, 2004.
Commissioner Healy then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
C1 thru C5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit
Committee.
(Item C1)
On June 2, 1995, the CHA entered into a five (5) year lease (“Lease” or “Lease Agreement”) for
the rental of 24,450 square of office space located on the 21st floor of 200 West Adams Street,
Chicago, Illinois. The Premises provide office space for the CHA’s Office of the General
Counsel and Inspector General. The original lease term of the Lease Agreement expired on July
31, 2001. In December 2000, the CHA executed a First Amendment to the Lease with the Equity
Office, which resulted in a reduction of 2,347 square feet of office space leased by the Office of
the General Counsel. The execution of the Second Amendment to the Lease on April 17, 2001
further reduced the Office of the General Counsel’s lease space to 17,571 rental square feet and
extended the term of the Lease an additional two (2) years until July 31, 2003. Thereafter, the
Lease was amended extending the Lease term for an additional one (1) year and seven (7)
months until February 28, 2005. The execution of this Fourth Amendment to the Lease will
extend the term of the Lease for another one year period until February 28, 2006. As an incentive
to CHA extending the Lease, the property management, Equity Office, has offered to reduce the
monthly rent amount by $1 per square foot under this Fourth Amendment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-102
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 17, 2004,
entitled, “Request for Authorization to Execute a Fourth Amendment to the Lease
for Premises Located at 200 West Adams Street, Suite 2100, Chicago, Illinois”;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Fourth Amendment to the Lease Agreement for 200 West
Adams, Suite 2100, Chicago, Illinois. The annual rent for the Lease shall be in the
amount of $254,779.56, plus expenses and real estate taxes.

(Item C2)
The CHA plans to enter into a contract with Bank of America Securities, pursuant to which,
Bank of America Securities will assist the CHA in its on-going efforts to develop, design and
implement strategies to enable it to finance the redevelopment and/or rehabilitation of city-state
and other public housing developments. It is envisioned that Todd Gomez, former CHA Chief
Financial Officer and a current employee of Bank of America Securities, will be part of the Bank
of America team working with the CHA on this initiative. While employed by the CHA, Mr.
Gomez, pioneered the development of innovative financing strategies and his participation in this
continuing project is deemed essential to its success.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-103
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated July 28, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Waive Post Employment Restrictions in the CHA
Ethics Policy to Facilitate the Redevelopment and/or Rehabilitation of the CityState and Other Properties,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to waive the Post Employment Restrictions in the CHA Ethics Policy to
allow former CHA CFO Todd Gomez to participate in the provision of services
pursuant to a contract with Bank of America Securities to develop financing
strategies for the redevelopment and/or rehabilitation of city-state and other
properties.

(Item C3)

9

 The resolution for Item C3 approves revisions to the newly negotiated Collective Bargaining
Agreement between the Chicago Housing Authority and the General Service Employees
International Union; Local 73. The Agreement maintained the Pay for Performance Program for
wage increases and modified provisions per changes implemented in the program in 2003;
maintained current employee contribution premiums for medical/dental/vision coverage but
replaced text for Long/Short Term Disability; uniform allowance was increased to $40 per
quarter from $25 and modified text to reflect current application of obligations terms or
requirements as to comply with State, Federal or County ordinances and regulations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-104
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August, 2004,
entitled “Authorization for Approval of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
between the Chicago Housing Authority and the Service Employees International
Union, Local 73” dated January 01, 2004 through December 30, 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter and execute the attached
Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Chicago housing Authority and the
Service Employees International Union Local 73 which will be effective from
January 1, 2004 to December 30, 2005;

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the College Bargaining Agreement
between the Chicago Housing Authority and the Service Employees International
Union, Local 73 dated January 01, 2004 through December 30, 2005 and
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to .

THAT,

this Collective Bargaining Agreement replaces any and all previously Boardapproved Collective Bargaining Agreements between the Chicago Housing
Authority and the Service Employees International Union, Local 73.

THAT,

this Collective Bargaining Agreement supersedes any and all language found in
the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties dated January 01, 2001
through December 31, 2003.

10

 (Item C4)
In June of 2001, the ITS Department purchased Oracle products to replace the legacy systems
and to be the platform for the CHA Systems@Work. At the time that the CHA purchased Oracle
database software (through an MBE vendor), licenses, maintenance costs and support services
were negotiated in the agreement and were provided for the first year. Subsequent to the initial
acquisition of the database software, the original MBE vendor ceased to be an authorized
provider of Oracle Database Support and Maintenance Services, which required the CHA to
obtain these services directly from Oracle Corporation. Contractual arrangements providing for
the CHA’s receipt of Database Support and Maintenance Services from Oracle to support the
Oracle products were previously approved by the Board of Commissioners and extended through
June 16, 2004 at the annual cost of $113,630. The resolution for Item C4 extends the contractual
agreement with Oracle for an initial term of two years beginning June 17, 2004 at the same
annual cost of $113,630. The type of product support sought in this request for extension
includes technical support, as well as enhancements, upgrades and updates for Oracle database
software, and is available only from Oracle.
RESOLUTION NO: 2004-CHA-105
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 26, 2004, titled “Authorization to Enter into a
Contractual Agreement with Oracle Corporation for Oracle Database Software
Support and Maintenance”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contractual agreement or extension with Oracle
Corporation for Maintenance and Support Services for Oracle database software
for an initial two year period commencing with the effective date of June 17,
2004, at an annual cost of $113,630.00, with a one year option term, not to exceed
$340,890 in total for all three years.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to enter into Informational
Technology Goods and Services Intergovernmental Agreements with the City’s Sister Agencies
as well as with other governmental entities. Under the Intergovernmental Agreement, the CHA
would be able to secure the goods and/or services of Vendors who have been secured by any one
of the Governmental Entities under appropriate procurement and applicable procurement
regulations for goods and services common to that Governmental Entity and the CHA. In
addition, the CHA would be able to do joint procurement with any of these Governmental
Entities pursuant to the Intergovernmental Agreement(s). It is anticipated that these
arrangements will be more cost savings for the CHA, since it may not have to conduct its own
procurement of goods or services where one of the Governmental Entities already has
contractors in place. Improved efficiency would result from shorter acquisition times as well as
improved economics from the greater purchasing power for joint or cooperative purchases, since
economies of scale from cooperative purchasing very often yield the same or better results as
competition among Vendors with only CHA’s usage profile as the basis for the purchase. Also,
it is anticipated that where one of the Governmental Entities has a greater usage of the subject
goods or services, or where the needs of the CHA and other Governmental Entities for goods and
services are being pooled, thus affording opportunities for a broader base of business, the prices
obtained for such goods or services, would probably be more competitive than those the CHA
could secure on its own. The HUD procurement regulations encourage these types of
intergovernmental agreements for the procurement of common goods and services to “foster
greater economy and efficiency.”
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-106
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 3, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Enter Into An Information Technology Goods And
Services Intergovernmental Agreement With The City of Chicago, The Chicago
Board of Education, The Chicago Park District, The City Colleges of Chicago,
The Chicago Transit Authority, The Public Buildings Commission of Chicago,
The State of Illinois And The (U.S.) General Services Administration (all of these
collectively referred to as “Governmental Entities”)”

11

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into one or several Information Technology Goods or Services
Intergovernmental Agreements with any of the Governmental Entities. To the
extent that purchases are made pursuant to this Resolution, the authorization for
any such contracts exceeding the dollar value threshold of the Significant Actions
Policy requiring Board approval, shall be drawn from the not-to-exceed amount
established and increased in the amount of $15,000,000.00 in Resolution No.
2004-CHA-5, previously passed by the Board on January 20, 2004.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C5 was seconded by Commissioner
Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

12

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 