MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 15, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
May 15, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at the Family Investment Center, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce

Also present were Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff presented the Monthly CEO Report on behalf of Sharon Gist
Gilliam. Per Ms. Minley, a significant milestone has been reached at the State Street corridor
with the return of the first leaseholders to the new development at the site of the former Robert
Taylor Homes and after this month, the first families will also move into Park Boulevard, on the
site of the former Stateway Gardens. Ms. Minley then reiterated how important it is that parents
get their children involved in summer activities since CHA has developed a strong partnership
with the Chicago Park District to ensure that a variety of programs and activities are available to
all CHA children. Ms. Minley completed her report by announcing the opening of Wentworth
Garden’s new community center on Wednesday, May 16th at 11:00 a.m. Ms. Minley
congratulated Commissioner Amey and the resident leadership of Wentworth Gardens for
making this center a showpiece for the Authority.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon introduced Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Young then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1and 2.

1

 Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 3, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for April 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
April 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 7, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which
Associated International Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of
$10,000 in the matter CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH 12868, for the
termination of the CHA’s rights under the excess insurance policy to make claims
under the policy relating to the Aaron Litigation or the aforementioned coverage
litigation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which Associated International
Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of $10,000 in exchange for the
termination of the CHA’s rights under the insurance policy by Associated
International Insurance Company to make claims under the policy relating to the
Aaron Litigation or the aforementioned coverage litigation as part of a settlement
of the case of CHA v. Admiral Insurance Co., et al., 04 CH 12868.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe the Finance and Audit Committee was held on
Wednesday, May 9, 2007 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate offices. The Chief
Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report
for the month of April, the Quarterly Budget and Grant Progress Reports, the March 2007
Financial Update and a Review of the 2006 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
In June 2001, the ITS Department purchased Oracle database products to replace legacy
computing systems and to be the platform for the CHA Systems@Work. At the time of the
CHA’s original purchase of the Oracle database software maintenance costs and services were
negotiated in the agreement and were provided for the first year of use. In subsequent years
since the expiration of the initial term of support and maintenance, the CHA has secured these
services directly from Oracle. The type of product support for extension includes technical
2

 support, as well as enhancements, upgrades and updates for Oracle database software, and is
available only from Oracle. As the developer, licensor and owner of the database software and
the exclusive provider of comprehensive support services, this extension was secured with
Oracle on a sole source basis, on the same pricing terms and conditions as were in effect at the
time of the original acquisition of Oracle database software. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
A1 approves a two year contract for support and maintenance services with Oracle Corporation
in the amount of $237,588.97.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-62
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated May 7, 2007 titled “Authorization to enter into an Extension
of a Contract with Oracle Corporation for Support and Maintenance Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into an extension of the contract with Oracle Corporation for
Maintenance and Support Services for a two-year term for a total contract amount
of $237,588.97.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 ratifies the ten month Extension of the Wellhead Natural Gas
Contract with Peoples Energy Services Corporation. The CHA’s prior contract extension period
with People’s Energy Services Corporation for its natural gas supply is due to expire on May 31,
2007. People’s Energy and the CHA mutually agreed to extend the prevailing terms and
conditions of the Wellhead Natural Gas Contract for an additional term of ten months from the
May 31, 2007 expiration date. The terms of the contract enable the CHA to flexibly lock in
forward pricing for CHA-designated amount of its projected consumption and also allow the
CHA to acquire additional supplies needed in excess of the designated amount at prices pegged
to index costs of the wholesale gas market. Natural gas prices fluctuate regularly on the open
market and are generally anticipated to be highest during the winter months. Given CHA’s
anticipated consumption of approximately 18,527,628 therms of natural gas for the next ten
months this Contract Extension offers CHA the opportunity to purchase its gas needs at
wholesale instead of retail, and enables the CHA to hedge against potential future market price
fluctuations in wholesale gas supplies.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-63
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated May 7, 2007, entitled “Ratification of a Ten (10) Month
Extension Of The Wellhead Natural Gas Contract With Peoples Energy Services
Corporation,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the Chief Executive Officer’s execution of
the extension of the Wellhead Natural Gas Contract with Peoples Energy Services
Corporation for a term of ten (10) months, commencing from June 1, 2007 and
continuing through March 31, 2008, under the same terms and conditions as the
existing agreement, in an amount not-to-exceed $13,950,000.00, for the purpose
of providing natural gas to the CHA during the extension term.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by
Commissioner Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

3

 There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Committee Chair Earnest Gates, Commissioner Harris then presented the
Operations and Facilities monthly report. Per Commissioner Harris, the Operations and
Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, May 9, 2007 at 1:30 p.m. at the 60 E.
Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Harris then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification Number G-01 with Walsh
Construction for general renovation of Philip Murray Homes, Phase II which provides for the
removal and replacement of all sanitary/waste stacks and vent piping with new Schedule 40 PVC
piping in three hundred units spread across thirty-eight buildings. The work is needed due to the
significant and irreversible deterioration of the existing cast iron and galvanized piping within
the kitchen and bathroom plumbing stacks of these units. The original construction documents
and scope of work for this project called for the complete removal and replacement of all
plumbing piping in the project. Prior to the solicitation, the CHA conducted selective demolition
and testing in some of the units and believed that such extensive piping replacement would not
be necessary. Accordingly, the CHA removed this work from the scope of the project and
believed that this action would result in cost savings to the CHA in excess of $3,500,000.00.
Upon commencement of construction and actual demolition of the units, the CHA discovered
that the selective testing performed earlier had not produced accurate results and that there was
significant deterioration of the existing cast iron and galvanized piping. Accordingly, an
analysis of the best means and methods to correct this issue was performed, resulting in this
contract modification. The net result is that the piping in this development will be rehabilitated
at a total cost substantially less than the original cost to remove and replace all of the plumbing
piping at the development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-64
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 7, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-01 to Contract No. 7005
with Walsh Construction Company for additional work related to the General
Renovation of Philip Murray Homes (IL2-011) – Phase 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract No. 7005 with
Walsh Construction Company in the amount of $1,465,425.00 for additional work
related to the general renovation of Philip Murray Homes (IL2-011) – Phase 2 at
969 East 132nd Place. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 7005 is
$62,742,993.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves Modification No. G-11 with George Sollitt Construction
Company for the general renovation of Trumbull Park Homes. The renovation work commenced
in June of 2004. This contract modification provides funding for the Contractor’s work
rebuilding parapets and replacing missing limestone caps. This rebuilding included the re-settling
of the existing masonry unit or the installation of a replacement masonry unit. This work also
corrected displaced and “spalled” masonry units, replaced missing limestone wall coping stones,
and rebuilt the masonry areas detailed in Bulletin 69.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 7, 2007
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-11 to Contract No. 0617
4

 with the George Sollitt Construction Company for additional work related to the
General Renovation of Trumbull Park Homes (IL2-025)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-11 to Contract No. 0617 with
The George Sollitt Construction Company in the amount of $137,970.00 for
additional work related to the general renovation of Trumbull Park Homes (IL2025). The management offices for Trumbull Park Homes are located at 2437 East
106th Street. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0617 is
$7,092,105.26.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves the second Base Year of contract with Partnership For
Transformation. In order to effectively complete all construction, rehabilitation and capital
maintenance activities outlined in the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, the CHA awarded a
contract to Partnership for Transformation for authority-wide construction management
services. During the first year of its contract, Partnership has addressed the CHA’s construction
related needs, including the establishment of a single point of accountability for the rehabilitation
of the Senior, Family, and Scattered Sites properties, and Make-Ready units as part of the Plan
for Transformation; the implementation of an efficient and comprehensive plan covering preconstruction, construction and post-construction to ensure on-time delivery of housing units, and
the imposition of tight fiscal guidelines, as well as change order protocols, to meet budget targets
and constraints. In addition, Partnership has taken action to eliminate certain redundant functions
previously performed by the Managing Owner’s Representative, the Owner’s Representatives,
and others.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-66
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 7, 2007
entitled “Authorization to approve the Funding, Budget, and Organizational
Staffing for the 2nd Base Year of Contract No. 6023 with The Partnership For
Transformation for Authority-wide Construction Management Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners approves and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer
or her designee to agree to the funding, budget and organizational staffing for the
2nd Base Year of Contract No. 6023 with Partnership for Transformation for
authority-wide construction management services in a not-to-exceed amount of
$3,611,237.00 for the 2nd Base Year, June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008. The
new not-to-exceed contract amount of Contract No. 6023 will be $6,758,974.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

Item B4)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the Authority solicited bids to perform renovation
work at the Family housing development at Dearborn Homes (IL2-009). This renovation work
will be performed within two buildings located at 2920 South State Street and 2940 South State
Street. The Scope of Work for this solicitation includes the renovation of all tenant and common
areas, including mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems, and site/landscaping
improvements. Work shall result in seventy-eight units being extensively renovated, along with
the exterior building and landscaping improvements. The units are scheduled to be completed by
December 21, 2007. An IFB was advertised in area newspapers. Of the four bids opened, the
second apparent low bidder, Friedler Construction Company, was determined to be the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder at $17,780,000.00. Accordingly, the resolution for B4 awards
contract to Friedler Construction for renovation work at Dearborn Homes.

5

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with Friedler Construction Company
for the Family Housing Renovation at Dearborn Homes (IL2-009) – Phase I”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Friedler Construction Company in the amount
of $17,780,000.00 for the renovation of Dearborn Homes (IL2-009) – Phase 1, a
Family housing development. The buildings are located at 2920 and 2940 South
State Street. Friedler Constriction Company will complete seventy-eight (78)
units by no later than December 21, 2007. This award is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B4 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
At this time Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, joined the meeting in session.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, May 9, 2007 at approximately 2:05 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Our own Commissioner Ivers together with CHA staff, Pat Jasper and Mark Joseph of Case
Western Reserve University, presented the Committee with an informative update on the Hope
VI Faith-Based Mentoring Demonstration Program.
Commissioner Young then introduced a Motion for the adoption of Resolution for Items C1
discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item C1)
In December 2003, the Board authorized a Contract with HCP/Heartland for an initial term of
fourteen (14) months with four one-year options to provide HSS to families that had to relocate
from their existing public housing units. These families lived in buildings scheduled for closing
due to redevelopment/rehabilitation and they were to relocate to other CHA public housing units
or the private-market housing using a Housing Choice Voucher (HCV). The services provided
under the Contract included obtaining/maintaining lease compliance, assessment, providing
community tours, identifying housing and other services to assist families in meeting their
housing choice. During subsequent approval of contract extensions, HCP/Heartland has met,
and at times exceeded its obligations under the Contract, including goals related to showing
CHA families available units in low poverty and opportunity areas. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item C1 approves the third year option year. During the third year extension option period,
$1,020,000.00 of additional funding to be added to the carryover balance available at the end of
the current contract term is required to allow HCP/Heartland to provide housing and supportive
services to approximately 400 families from Washington Park, Madden/Wells/Darrow,
Dearborn, the Gautreax Program, and other additional sites as assigned and to continue providing
follow-up services to CHA families that were referred and relocated during the second option
year.

6

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 7, 2007, entitled “Recommendation to exercise the third
one-year option of Contract No. 0454 with HCP of Illinois, Inc. and Heartland
Human Care Services, Inc., a Joint Venture for Housing and Supportive
Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the third one (1) year option of Contract No. 0454 with HCP
of Illinois, Inc. and Heartland Human Care Services, Inc. a joint venture (the
“Contract”), for housing and supportive services for the period of July 1, 2007
through June 30, 2008 and to increase the Contract’s not-to-exceed compensation
amount by adding $1,020,000.00 to the carryover balance remaining at the end of
the second one-year option period. The Contract’s new total not-to-exceed
contract amount will be $3,331,702.00.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Items C1 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

7

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 