December 12, 2012 ITEM NO. D1

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
WITH THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT, THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF
FAMILY AND SUPPORT SERVICES, AND THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC HEALTH

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

ION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into Intergovernmental Agreements with the Chicago Park District
and the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services and to accept a
grant award and enter into an IGA with the Chicago Department of Public Health to
provide support services for families in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $2,158,053 for
the period ofJanuary 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013.

The Executive Vice President (EVP) of Resident Services, the Of?ce of the General Counsel and
the Of?ce of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission
of this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.


Collectively, the IGAs invest in youth, adult and senior residents by providing services and

supports that empower them for success in the global economy. Additionally, the IGAs
support CHA ?s corporate strategies of investing in communities where CHA families live and
enhancing the quality of life for long-term residents.

EQNDING: CHA General Fund

SOLICITATIQN SUMMRY

Vendors: Chicago Park District
541 North Fairbanks
Chicago, Illinois 60661

Chicago Department of Family and Support Services
1615 West Chicago Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60622

Chicago Department of Public Health
333 South State Street
Chicago, Illinois 60604

Contract Type: Intergovernmental Agreement

Amounts:
Chicago Park District: $400,000
Department of Family Support Services: $1,758,053
$2,158,053

Grant Award:
Chicago Department of Public Health: $80,000

Contract Term: January 1, 2013 December 31, 2013
Participation: Not Feasible

Section 3: Not Feasible

GENERAL BACKGROUND

For nearly a decade, CHA has collaborated with city sister agencies to provide direct and
targeted access to the network of services and available programs that CPD, DF SS and CDPH
offer.

Chicago Park District

CHA and CPD collaborate to provide year-round park district programs for CHA youth who
otherwise may not be able to participate due to cost. The IGA allows CHA youth to pay reduced
rates for Park District programming (85-315 depending on the program) and the remaining
program fees are shared evenly between CHA and CPD. The Park District programs offered at
reduced rates include summer day camp, extended summer camp, ?Park Kids? after-school
program, and vacation camps during winter and spring breaks. Park District programs provide
youth with age-appropriate activities, while assisting working parents by offering safe and
constructive programs for children during out-of-school time. CHA is able to leverage its
partnership with CPD to encourage participation in additional Park District programs 
Little/Pony League, basketball, soccer, etc. . .).

Department of amily and Support Services

CHA and DFSS collaborate each year to provide services in the areas of early childhood
development, out-of-school time programs for youth, homeless prevention services for families,
and senior services. DF SS is able to enhance its existing programming and further target CHA
residents for programs in the areas of:

Early Childhood Family

The Early Childhood and Family Services initiative includes the provision of early
childhood and adult literacy services. In addition to the enhanced outreach and support
programs, DF SS will implement a new parent education and job readiness training

program.

Out of School Time

DFSS will continue to offer year-round out-of?school time programs that offer youth a
structured environment to participate in academic enrichment, arts and culture, computer
science technology, sports ?tness and career exploration activities"71:1 (35 Emma ?a ?vnwr f3?

Senior Services

The Golden Diner Program provides meals for older adults to help them stay healthy and
addresses isolation by providing the venue for socialization and physical activities for
seniors to engage in before and after meals are served.

Homeless Prevention
DFSS will also continue to provide homeless prevention services to CHA residents facing
eviction from a CHA public housing unit.

Department of Public Health

CHA and CDPH jointly fund substance abuse and wellness services for CHA residents through
Intergovernmental Agreements. In 2012, through the with CDPH, CHA piloted youth
substance abuse prevention programs and will use the grant award from CDPH in 2013 to
expand the programs. CHA will also commit a 1:1 match to enhance youth substance abuse
prevention services in 2013.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD) procurement laws.

The EVP of Resident Services concurs with the recommendation to enter into IGAs with the
Chicago Park District, the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services and the Chicago
Department of Public Health to provide supportive services for CHA families.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to enter into Intergovernmental Agreements with the
Chicago Park District and the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services to provide
support services for CHA families in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $2,158,053 for the period
of January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, and additionally to accept the award of a grant in
the amount of $80,000.00 from the Chicago Department of Public Health and to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with DPH to provide support services for CHA families.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-110

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 12,
2012, entitled TO ENTER INTO
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS WITH THE CHICAGO PARK
DISTRICT, THE CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND SUPPORT
SERVICES AND CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to enter into Intergovernmental Agreements with the Chicago Park
District and the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services to provide
support services for CHA families in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed
$2,158,053 for the period of January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 and to
accept a grant award of up to $80,000 and enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Public Health for the period of January
1, 2013 through December 31, 2013.

These awards are subject to each Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

$1013.15!

   
 

 

5 Van Ewan Sew! . ell/case, Illinois 60665-1207 - (3E2) 7423502 aroma {nae/18.0513

