MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
September 20, 2011
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, September 20, 2011 at approximately 8:35 a.m. at the Lathrop Boys
& Girls Club located at 2915 North Leavitt in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Jim Reynolds called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Sandra Young
Absent:

Mark Cozzi
Myra King
Z. Scott

Also present were Carlos Ponce, Interim Chief Executive Officer; Kris Warren, Chief of Staff;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairman Reynolds announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairman thereupon
convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes for the Committee Meetings Minutes for
July 13, 2011 and August 10, 2011 and the Regular Board Meetings of July 19 and August 16,
2011 were unanimously approved.
Chairman Reynolds then introduced a Motion for the approval of Executive Session Item 1.
Executive Session Item No. 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-107
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 20,
2011, requesting authorization to “Enter into negotiations with Norfolk Southern
Railway Company for the potential disposition of land commonly referred to as
the vacant site at 525-539 West 56th Place, the multi-family buildings located at
501-547 West 58th Street and South Stewart Avenue between 57th and 58th Street,
Chicago, Illinois”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Interim Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into negotiations with Norfolk Southern Railway Company for
the potential disposition of land commonly referred to as the vacant site at 525539 West 56th Place, the multi-family buildings located at 501-547 West 58th
1

 Street and South Stewart Avenue between 57th and 58th Street, Chicago, Illinois.
Subsequent Board authorization will be obtained prior to the execution of the final
negotiated Land Sale Agreement.
The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Cepeda and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Adela Cepeda, Chairwoman of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Cepeda, the Finance and Audit Committee held its
regular meeting on Wednesday, September 14, 2011 at the CHA Corporate Offices. The Chief
Financial Officer and his staff presented the Committee with the August 2011 Treasury Report
and the CHA 2011 Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
Commissioner Cepeda then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A5.
(Items A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the CHA’s General Business Expense Policy and the
revised Travel Policy. On July 31, 2011, the CHA along with other City of Chicago Sister
Agencies and City Departments adopted the City-Wide Employee Reimbursement Policy. This
policy was created after a review of both the existing credit card and employee reimbursement
policies and related past spending of the City of Chicago Departments and Sister Agencies. As a
result of the review, it was determined that the employee reimbursement control environment
needed significant improvement. The General Business Expense Policy was created to serve as
an implementation guide for the City-Wide Employee Reimbursement Policy and to establish a
formal policy document regarding CHA’s general business expenses. The General Business
Expense Policy provides details related to the use of federal and non-federal funds, allowable
and non-allowable agency expenditures, eligible and non-eligible employee reimbursements and
quality assurance and monitoring. The General Business Expense Policy will become effective
September 1, 2011. Revisions to the Travel Policy are necessary to ensure that our guidelines
are compliant with the City-Wide Employee Reimbursement Policy, and specific appropriate
changes were made to the Travel Policy’s Reimbursable Travel Expenses section. The revised
Travel Policy will become effective September 1, 2011 and will supersede all previous policy
guides, manuals and procedures, and other previous representations, statements, either verbal or
written, pertaining to CHA’s Travel Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-108
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 14,
2011, entitled, “APPROVAL OF CHA’S GENERAL BUSINESS EXPENSE
POLICY AND THE REVISED TRAVEL POLICY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the General Business Expense Policy and
the revised Travel Policy which are attached to the Resolution, and authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or designee to implement the policies effective
September 1, 2011. The Revised Travel Policy supersedes the existing Travel
Policy and Guide.

(Item A2)
The CHA must annually renew its insurance coverage for General Liability, Excess Liability,
Public Officials Liability, All Risk Property, Employed Lawyers Errors and Omissions Liability,
Employment Practices Liability, Auto Liability, Crime and Fiduciary Liability. HUD previously
authorized the CHA to have its insurance broker of record competitively solicit bids on the
2

 CHA’s behalf for all forthcoming insurance procurements. In July 2011, Aon directly and
indirectly solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 20 carriers and requested that
their quotes be received by AON prior to August 8, 2011. Aon received quotes from several new
carriers with most insurers remaining consistent with the prior year’s program. After reviewing
the responses, AON and CHA’s Risk Management Department recommend the insurers listed in
the approved resolution below to provide the required insurance coverage for CHA for the period
of October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012. The recommended awards to these carriers
maintain the same policy limits and retention levels for all lines as the prior year’s program.
This year’s renewal was one of consistency, as all carriers remained the same except for the
primary General Liability carrier. RSUI will be the primary and continue as the excess carrier for
these lines of coverage. Under the Property program, several new carriers competitively quoted
the program as a direct result of the property tours conducted in July, but CHA is still faced with
a premium increase of 6.6% due to an increase in the primary layer rate of $.003/$100 of Total
Insured Value. Incumbent carriers for all other lines have offered overall reductions in
premiums and should be retained as expiring.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-109
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September
14, 2011 entitled “AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CHA TO AWARD GENERAL
LIABILITY, EXCESS LIABILITY, PUBLIC OFFICIALS LIABILITY, ALL
RISK PROPERTY, EMPLOYED LAWYERS ERRORS AND OMISSIONS
LIABILITY, EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY, AUTO LIABILITY,
CRIME AND FIDUCIARY LIABILITY COVERAGE”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to award the following insurance coverage for the CHA for the period of
October 1, 2011 through September 30, 2012 for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $1,195,173 through its insurance broker of record, Aon Risk Services
Central, Inc. (“Aon”): (1) General Liability coverages written through RSUI in an
amount not-to-exceed $35,224; (2) Excess Liability coverage written through
RSUI in an amount not-to-exceed $61,124; (3) Auto Liability written through The
Hartford in an amount not-to-exceed $31,358 (4) All Risk Property written
through Lexington, Axis, and QBE in the amount not-to-exceed $863,301; (5)
Public Officials E&O written through Ironshore ($101,609) and Ace ($56,070) in
an amount not-to-exceed $157,679; (6) Employment Practices Liability written
through National Union in an amount not-to-exceed $10,837 (7) Employed
Lawyers Errors and Omissions Liability written through Illinois National in an
amount not-to-exceed $12,550; (8) Crime written through Berkley Regional in an
amount not-to exceed $13,000; (9) Fiduciary written through National Union in
an amount not to exceed $10,100.

(Items A3)
The CHA utilizes CISCO hardware and software to support internal/external communications
and the CHA’s essential operating functions. Critical core applications, including VOIP
telephones, CHA Cameras, BuySpeed, Lawson ERP and Yardi, would be adversely affected
should the CISCO components cease to be fully operational. In April 2011, the CHA issued a
Request For Proposal (RFP) for the provision of CISCO Hardware and Software Maintenance
Services. The CHA advertised the RFP in area newspapers, CHA’s website and Buyspeed. The
proposal was also sent out to sixty-eight vendors and seventy-two Assist Agencies. The CHA
received a total of four proposals in response to the RFP. The written proposals and oral
presentations were scored by the evaluation team and updated best and final offers were
presented by the respondents in the competitive range. System Solutions Inc. was determined to
offer an excellent proposal that met the technical requirements of the RFP and was found to
provide the best overall value consistent with CHA’s requirements for the Cisco Hardware and
Software Maintenance Services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves award of
contract to System Solutions for the Cisco Hardware and Software Maintenance Services.
System Solutions has been providing information technology business solutions since its
inception in 1987, and has approximately 25 years of experience in various IT solutions. System
Solutions currently provides maintenance services under the Cisco Smartnet platform for
McHenry County, Metropolitan Water, the City of Chicago and Cook County Hospital.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-110
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 14,
2011 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with System Solutions Inc.
for Cisco Hardware and Software Maintenance Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Interim Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to enter into a contract with System Solutions Inc. for Cisco
Hardware and Software Maintenance Services for a two (2) year base term in an
amount not-to-exceed $318,930.99, with two (2) one-year options, in an amount
not-to exceed $160,419.11 for each option term, subject to funding availability,
resulting in a total amount not to exceed $639,769.21.

(Item A4)
On July 14, 2011, the CHA received official notice of being selected to receive $612,000.00
from HUD’s Veteran’s Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) Program to support 75 new housing
choice vouchers (HCVs). This funding from HUD’s VASH Program is a coordinated effort by
HUD, the Veterans Administration (VA), and local housing agencies to provide permanent
housing for homeless veterans. Under the VASH Program, the VA Medical Centers’ staff
provides supportive case management services to eligible homeless veterans throughout the U.S.,
and public housing agencies provide rental assistance through HCVs. The HCVs are similar to
tenant based vouchers, where veterans participating in HUD’s VASH Program rent privately
owned housing, and generally contribute no more than 30 percent of their income toward rent.
Homeless veterans are referred to public housing agencies for these HCVs based upon a variety
of factors, most importantly, the need and willingness to participate in case management
services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A4 approves acceptance of grant award from HUD
for 75 HCVs to support the VASH Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-111
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 14, 2011, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
ACCEPT NEW FUNDING FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT BY AN AMENDMENT TO THE ANNUAL
CONTRIBUTIONS CONTRACT, AND AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE
THE FY2011 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET THEREFOR”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes acceptance of $612,000.00 for 75
Housing Choice Vouchers from HUD to provide new funding for the Veteran’s
Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) Program by an amendment to the Annual
Contributions Contract, and authorizes an increase to the FY 2011 comprehensive
budget therefor.

(Items A5)
On August 10, 2011, the CHA received official written notice of an award of $120,000.00 from
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP) to procure a transit professional to conduct
a traffic analysis, feasibility study, and stakeholder interviews of the LeClaire Hearst Community
Planning area. The findings will be presented to stakeholders, residents, elected officials, and
other key partners and are critical in preparing redevelopment plans for LeClaire Courts. The
comprehensive redevelopment will address social, economic, and housing needs for the current
and future residents of the Southwest Side, identified through research, data, and communitylevel engagement. LeClaire Courts represents a prime opportunity to develop a mixed-income,
mixed-density, mixed-use gateway community. The LeClaire Hearst Community Study Area
will include the imprint of LeClaire Courts and the primary transportation corridors surrounding
the neighborhood. The study will compliment the Cicero Corridor Study that the Southwest
Mayor’s Conference is pursuing, looking at Cicero Avenue from I-294/127th Street to Midway
Airport/55th Street. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 approves an intergovernmental
agreement with CMAP to accept the award in the amount of $120,000.00 to support the LeClaire
Hearst Community’s Community Planning Project

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-112
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 14, 2011 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE CHICAGO
METROPOLITAN AGENCY FOR PLANNING TO ACCEPT A GRANT
AWARD AND TO INCREASE THE FY2011 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (“the CHA”) has applied for grant funding
through the Community Planning Program from the Chicago Metropolitan
Agency for Planning (“CMAP”), for LeClaire Hearst Community Planning; and
WHEREAS, the CHA’s request for such grant has been approved by CMAP; and
WHEREAS, CMAP has adopted the GO TO 2040 Plan as the long-range regional
comprehensive plan for the seven-county Chicago region, encompassing Cook,
DuPage, Kane, Kendall. Lake, McHenry and Will counties, and is providing grant
assistance as a means of advancing the plan’s implementation; and
WHEREAS, the CHA and CMAP have agreed on the contents of an intergovernmental
agreement that covers the administration of this grant;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

.
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with CMAP to accept an
award in the amount of $120,000.00 to support the LeClaire Hearst Community’s
Community Planning Project and authorizes an increase to the FY2011
Comprehensive Budget by the same amount.
the Board of Commissioners supports the LeClaire Hearst Community Planning.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners recognizes that this funding is provided for the
purpose of advancing the implementation of GO TO 2040.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes staff as designated by the CEO to finalize
and execute the IGA with CMAP, and to initiate a competitive procurement
process to select a consulting firm to undertake work on this project.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners recognizes that provisions that govern the
administration of the Community Planning Program grant are included in the
IGA.

THAT

this resolution shall be effective as of the date of its adoption.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A5 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget Reidy
James Reynolds
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
The report for the Operations and Facilities Committee was then presented by Committee Chair
Reidy. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations and Facilities Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, September 14, 2011 at the CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioners were presented
with an update on Safety and Security by Jadine Chow, Sr. Vice President of Asset Management.

5

 Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B4.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves a contract award for Redevelopment of the Julia C. Lathrop
Homes to the Lathrop Community Partners, LLC (LCP) ; and approves a Predevelopment Loan
Agreement for the Lathrop Master Redevelopment Plan. The redevelopment of Lathrop Homes
will result in a large scale mixed-income community which will consist of approximately onethird public housing replacement units, with the income mix of the remaining two-thirds
determined by the Community Planning Process. The Lathrop site is located in the area roughly
bounded by Clybourn Avenue, Damen Avenue and the Chicago River and the new community
may include additional property in the surrounding area. The total number of units and the
distribution mix has yet to be determined. The Lathrop development team, LCP is a joint
venture comprised of Related Midwest, LLC, Bikerdike Redevelopment Corp., Magellan
Development Group, LLC, Ardmore Associates, LLC and Heartland Housing, Inc. In October
2010, the Board of Commissioners approved the selection of LCP as the developer and
authorized CHA to enter into negotiations for a development agreement. The proposed
development agreement to be executed is the Contract for Redevelopment of Julia C. Lathrop
Homes. LCP has presented CHA with the redevelopment schedule and predevelopment budget
for the Master Redevelopment Plan and has requested a predevelopment loan from CHA. The
proposed predevelopment loan will not exceed 75% of eligible third party predevelopment costs
consistent with HUD’s cost control guidelines and regulations. The loan will help fund a portion
of the predevelopment costs for the Lathrop redevelopment which include a robust community
planning process, survey work, architect and engineering design, and planned development fees.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-113
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 14,
2011 requesting authorization to: 1) enter into a Contract for Redevelopment of
Julia C. Lathrop Homes with Lathrop Community Partners LLC; 2) enter into a
Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Lathrop Community Partners, LLC for the
Lathrop Master Redevelopment Plan; and 3) execute other documents and take
such actions to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
1) Enter into a Contract for Redevelopment of Julia C. Lathrop Homes with
Lathrop Community Partners LLC; 2) enter into a Predevelopment Loan
Agreement with Lathrop Community Partners, LLC for the Lathrop Master
Redevelopment Plan; and 3) execute other documents and take such actions to
implement the foregoing.

(Item B2- NOT APPROVED DUE TO QUORUM ISSUES)
The CHA advertised a Request for Proposal for survey services in May 2011. The RFP was
advertised in area newspapers, CHA’s website and on BuySpeed Online. Thirty-three vendors
were directly solicited including seven M/W/DBE firms. Of the eight proposals received and
evaluated, six firms scored within the established competitive range. Based upon the evaluation
of the written proposals, oral presentations, and best and final offers, it was determined that
American Surveying and Engineering, P.C. will provide the best value to the CHA.
Commissioner Reidy’s Recusal from Item B2 affected the Quorum, therefore Item B2 was
deferred for approval at subsequent meeting.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-(NOT APPROVED)
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
board letter dated September 14, 2011 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A CONTRACT WITH AMERICAN SURVEYING AND
ENGINEERING, P.C. TO PROVIDE SURVEY SERVICES FOR REAL
ESTATE TRANSACTIONS AND PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS FOR CHA
REDEVELOPMENT SITES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
6

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Interim Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to execute a contract with American Surveying and
Engineering, P.C. to perform Survey Services for real estate transactions and
property acquisitions for CHA redevelopment sites for an amount not-to-exceed
$845,000.00 for a base term two (2) years. The contract shall provide for two (2)
one-year options, the exercise of which will be subject to CHA Board approval.
This is an annual requirements contract with the CHA. Needed services will be
assigned on a Task Order basis.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) Contracts for
Boulevard Apartments, LP and Housing Opportunities and Maintenance for the Elderly
(H.O.M.E.); Boulevard Apartments: is a 70-unit family housing development that was financed
with Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC). The development consists of three 3-story
walk-up buildings located in the West Town and Logan Square community areas. Bickerdike
Redevelopment Corporation is the owner and property manager for the Boulevard Apartments.
The Property Rental Assistance application proposes a 30-year HAP contract for 3 threebedroom and 1 two-bedroom units at 929-35 N. Sacramento; 5 four-bedroom and 1 one-bedroom
units at 1932-36 N. Humboldt; and 2 three-bedroom units at 2212 N. Sacramento/3003 W.
Lyndale. After HAP execution, CHA will refer applicants from the waiting list for these units.
The PRA rent is comparable with market rate units in the two separate neighborhoods and ranges
from $745-$1,225. Housing Opportunities and Maintenance for the Elderly (H.O.M.E.):
The Natalie Salmon House was constructed in 1994 by Housing Opportunities and Maintenance
for the Elderly HOME and is located at 7320 North Sheridan Road in the East Rogers Park
community area. The 5-story, brick elevator building provides 54 units of senior housing. The
PRA application proposes a 30-year HAP contract for 11 units at the Natalie Salmon House with
the following mix: (1) studio; (8) one-bedrooms; and (2) two-bedrooms. During the first three
years of the HAP term, as vacant units become available CHA will add them by amending the
HAP contract. After the HAP amendment, CHA will refer applicants from the waiting lists for
these units. Blackhawk Manor, also administered by HOME, is located at 4959 West Medill
Avenue in the Belmont-Cragin community area. Blackhawk Manor was opened in 2004 when a
retired public school teacher donated her 2-story brick walk-up apartment building to H.O.M.E.
The PRA application proposes a 30-year HAP contract for up to three one-bedroom units at
Blackhawk Manor as they become vacant. The PRA rent is comparable with market rate units in
the two separate neighborhoods and ranges from $635-$950.
RESOLUTION 2011-CHA-114
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated September 14, 2011 requesting authorization to 1) execute a
Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Boulevard Apartments, LP; 2) execute
a Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Housing Opportunities and
Maintenance for the Elderly (H.O.M.E.); and 3) execute all other documents as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) execute a Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Boulevard
Apartments, LP; 2) execute a Housing Assistance Payment Contract for Housing
Opportunities and Maintenance for the Elderly (H.O.M.E.); and 3) execute all
other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item B4)
In 1996, the CHA reached a settlement in a class action lawsuit that charged the CHA and HUD
with discrimination against Latinos in Chicago’s public housing programs. The settlement
resulted in the Latino Consent Decree which, among other requirements, required the CHA to
have two site offices, staffed with bilingual personnel, to assist individuals seeking information
about or wishing to register for CHA programs. Although the Latino Consent Decree was lifted
over 5 years ago, CHA has continued to incorporate the strategies and experience in engaging the
Latino population that were developed over the term of the Consent Decree. In a spirit of good7

 faith with the desire to continue the progress made under the Latino Consent Decree, CHA has
continued to take affirmative action in the form of marketing and outreach to the Latino
community. CHA released a Request for Proposal to solicit vendors to operate two satellite
offices in Latino communities to provide bilingual marketing and outreach to the Latino
community and community at large. The CHA advertised the RFP in area newspapers,
additionally, 70 Assist Agencies received notification of the solicitation. The CHA also directly
solicited 64 firms, including 48 MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Based on the two proposals received
and evaluated, both firms were determined to be within the competitive range and oral
presentations were scheduled for each firm. During these meetings, CHA sought clarifications
from the potential vendor’s proposals and conducted negotiations with each firm. Then best and
final offers were requested and submitted by each firm. Based upon the evaluations of the
written proposals, the oral presentations and best and final offers, it was determined that Erie
Neighborhood House will provide the best overall service and value to CHA for this solicitation.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to Erie Neighborhood
House. Under the new proposed contract, Erie Neighborhood House, along with its marketing
and communications subcontractor, Blue Daring, will provide marketing and outreach activities
in English and Spanish to the general and Latino community during the term of the contract.
Erie Neighborhood House will also utilize its long standing reputation assisting the Latino
community and its existing resources at 2 satellite offices in the Latino community to provide
assistance to CHA individuals or families inquiring about the CHA’s HCV and public housing
wait lists during the term of the contract. Erie Neighborhood House will also assist individuals
and families with general CHA program status checks, programmatic information, participant
updates and general CHA inquiries and provide regular activities in the community and at the
two satellite offices to engage the Latino and general Chicago community in CHA programs.
The two Latino satellite offices operated by Erie Neighborhood House will be located in
communities with significant Latino populations (one in Westtown and one in Little Village) to
provide bilingual (Spanish) marketing services and to perform outreach activities on behalf of
the CHA to the Latino community and community at large.
RESOLUTION NO. 2011-CHA-115
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated September 14, 2011 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH ERIE NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSE TO
PROVIDE LATINO MARKETING AND OUTREACH SERVICES FOR THE
CHA”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Interim Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into contract with Erie Neighborhood House for a 2-year base
term in the amount of $782,692.00 and to exercise a 1-year option, subject to
funding availability in the amount of $400,636.00 to operate 2 bilingual (Spanish)
satellite offices in the Latino community on behalf of the CHA to assist CHA
residents and those wishing to become participants in CHA programs and to
provide marketing and outreach services to the Latino community and community
at large.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1, B3 and B4 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Dr. Mildred Harris
Bridget Reidy (Recused from voting on Item B2 only)
James Reynolds
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairman thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Mr. Ponce, Interim Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Ponce,
on Saturday, October 29th CHA is again partnering with Operations Warm to distribute new
coats to CHA children. This event is scheduled to be held at the University of Chicago campus
8

 from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. CEO Ponce then presented the Commissioners with an update on
CHA’s leasing activities to date. Per Mr. Ponce, more than 300 units have been leased since July
15th and occupancy rates for the three housing portfolio have met or surpassed occupancy
benchmarks established by HUD. Mr. Ponce concluded his report by encouraging the public to
participate in the comment period of the Moving to Work Annual Plan, Year 13.
Chairman Reynolds then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned at
approximately 11:40 a.m.

s/b:

s/b:

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

_______________________________
James Reynolds
Chairman

 