CHANGE.

CHICAGO HOUSING 
July 11,2012 ITEM NO. B1

 

AUTHORIZATION TO MAINTAIN AND EXPAND THE EXISTING LIST OF PRE-
QUALIFIED DEVELOPERS FOR THE HOUSING FOR CHICAGOANS
EVERYWHERE PROGRAM TO PROVIDE REPLACEMENT HOUSING
UNITS TO THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY FOR PUBLIC HOUSING
ELIGIBLE FAMILIES

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his

designee to maintain and expand the existing list of pre-quali?ed housing developers and
development teams (?Developers?) for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere 
Program to provide replacement housing units to The Chicago Housing Authority for
public housing eligible families. The selected respondents from the HCE Program RFQ will have
the opportunity to propose and close development transactions which dedicate public housing
units under either the Mixed-Finance Method or the Turnkey Method. The selected respondents
will be issued a ?Letter of Quali?cation? and have two years from the date of the Letter of
Quali?cation to submit proposals to the CHA. CHA may acquire units, or enter into long term
leases for the units, subject to the approval of the CHA Board of Commissioners, HUD, and any

other necessary approvals.

 

 

 

 

 

FUNDING SOURCE
NIA
INFORMATION

Mixed Finance Developers Turnkey Method Developer
Brinshore Development d?Escoto, Inc.
East Lake Management Development Senco Properties, Inc. and Galvan 
Corporation Associates, LLC (SG Partners)
Flaherty Collins
Holsten Real Estate Development
Corporation

 

Rosenwald Courts, LP (Joint Venture
between Landwhite Developers LLC, Jim
Bergman, and Ighten-Gale Group)

St. Edmund?s Redevelopment Corporation
St. Edmund?s Redevelopment Corporation
Tria Adel? LLC (Joint Venture)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Community Builders
RFQ Number: 11-00762 Date Advertised: 02/15/12, 02/17/12, 02/22-28/ 12
Contract Type: Service Date Bids/Quali?cations Opened: 03/30/12

612 E. Van Bum Street - Chicago, scans?mar (3.22; 742435139. 

Contract Period: Two (2) years Addendum Issued: None
Pre-Bir'iiI Quali?cations Conference: 02/29/12
Number of Vendors solicited: 44
(7 Firms)
Advertisement Publication(s): Chicago Number of Pick-ups: 55
Defender, Chicago Sun-Times Extra Number of Quali?cations Received: 10
Newspaper, CHA Website

Participation:
Signed af?davit on file

Section 3:
Signed af?davit on ?le

EXPLANATION

CHA requested submissions of quali?cations interested Developers to promote the
development or dedication of up to approximately 1,000 public housing units in mixed income
communities throughout the City of Chicago.

The HCE program is a component to the revitalization program. The HCE program
provides the opportunity for the successful respondents to participate as either a mixed-?nance
developer or turnkey developer. A mixed ?nance developer will propose projects utilizing CHA
funding as a portion of the project ?nancing during the development of mixed income projects
delivering public housing units. Turnkey developers will propose in?ll housing projects which
deliver completed public housing units in a mixed income setting, paid for upon delivery. These
two development methods attract a wide range of small and large developers. The HCE RFQ is
released on a serni-annuaJ/periodic basis to enable developers to enroll and participate in the
program throughout the year.

Through the HCE Program RFQ, CHA seeks developers who are interested in: l) delivering no
more than thirty-three percent of the units in each development project for public-housing
eligible families: Mixed Finance Method; or 2) delivering public housing units under a turnkey
purchase agreement scattered in a variety of neighborhoods for public housing eligible families:
Turnkey Method. HCE units under consideration for new family public housing are subject to
the Gautreaux court order. Any acquisition or long term lease is subject to approval from the
Board of Commissioners, HUD, the Gautreaux court order and any other site speci?c approvals.

PROCUREMENT HISTORY
The CHA advertised Request for Quali?cations No. 11-00762 (RFQ) for Housing For
Chicagoans Everywhere Program on February 15, 2012. The RFQ was advertised in
the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, Extra News, and the website. Forty-four
(44) vendors were directly solicited including seven (7) ?rms. A Pre-Quali?cation
Conference was held on February 29, 2012.

Ten (10) quali?cations were received, eight (8) for Mixed Finance Method, two (2) for Turnkey
Method. Utilizing an 100 point scale evaluation criteria for each development method, the
respondents were evaluated based on their quali?cations and experience. Respondents were
evaluated and scored on: 1) Technical Competence which includes familiarity with HUD
regulations, obtain ?nancing and construction management; 2) Professional quali?cations and

{If E. Van Baron {Erica-.329, Illinois 56505-1207 (312) 742-8553 mm. ?ts-Ma. or}:

experience of the individuals on the team to design, develop and operate housing; 3) Historical
performance of the respondents on other CHA or other entity contracts; 4) Historic involvement
in community development and; 5) The understanding and the quality of the respondent?s
Section 3 strategy for resident participation in the HCE program.

The quali?cations were deemed responsive and were evaluated by the evaluation committee.
After the committee completed its analysis of the quali?cations the following respondents met
the minimum threshold established by DPC to perform the duties of a deveIOper. Mixed Finance
Method, Brinshore Development, East Lake Management Development Corporation, Flaherty
Collins, Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation, Rosenwald Courts, LP (Joint Venture
between Landwhite Developers LLC, Jim Bergman, and Lighten-Gale Group) St. Edmund?s
Redevelopment Corporation, St. Edmund?s Redevelopment Corporation Tria Adel? LLC
(Joint Venture), The Community Builders. D?Escoto Inc., Senco Properties, Inc. and Galvan 
Associates, LLC (86 Partners) was selected for the Turnkey Method.

Based on the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to maintain and expand the existing list
of prequali?ed housing developers and development teams for the speci?c intention of
delivering replacement housing units to CHA for eligible public housing families under the
Housing for Chicagoans Everywhere Program. CHA will acquire, or enter into a long term lease
for the units, subject to subsequent CHA Board of Commissioners, HUD and any other necessary

approvals.

5611'. Chic-ago 5953.?? :25? #5533 - WMITJ. seems erg;

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-55

 

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11, 2012
entitled, ?Authorization to maintain and expand the existing list of pre-quali?ed
developers and development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere
Program to provide replacement housing units to the Chicago Housing
Authority for public housing eligible families.?

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his

designee to maintain and expand the existing list of pre-qualified developers and
development teams for the Housing For Chicagoans Everywhere 
Program to provide replacement housing units to the Chicago Housing Authority

for public housing eligible families.

 

Mixed Finance Developers

Turnkey Method Developer

 

Brineshore Development

d?Escoto, Inc.

 

East Lake Management Development
Corporation

Senco Properties, Inc. and Galvan 
Associates, LLC (86 Partners)

 

Flaherty Collins

 

Holsten Real Estate Deve10pment
Corporation

 

Rosenwald Courts, LP (Joint Venture
between Landwhite Developers LLC, Jim
Bergman, and Lighten-Gale Group)

 

St. Edmund?s Redevelopment Corporation

 

St. Edmund?s Redevelopment Corporation
Tria Adel? LLC (Joint Venture)

 

 

The Community Builders

 

 

ummu


12012 .
4'

   
        

f3}? 3791i?: 

a;

3:245 {Fitr?t335- i207 - (332) 742-8550 WW. f?ccha?rg

 

