MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
September 15, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
September 15, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. at Apartamentos Las Americas, Chicago, Illinois.
In the absence of Chairperson Nesbitt, Commissioner Michael Ivers called the meeting to order
and upon roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Michael Ivers
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Absent:

Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, Kris Warren, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Danny Solis, Alderman for the 25th Ward and former CHA Commissioner then welcomed the
Commissioners and public to Apartamentos Las Americas.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
At approximately 8:38 a.m. Commissioner Carlos Ponce joined the meeting in session.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Acting Chairperson Ponce
thereupon convened the Public Hearing portion and Business Sessions of the meeting.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan’s
reminded the public that 2010 will mark the 10th Anniversary of the Plan for Transformation and
with the help of the City, Federal Government, philanthropic and development partners a great
deal of progress has been made. Mr. Jordan continued by saying that the 10th Anniversary will
not focus on celebration but on reflection of what has transpired, what has worked well and what
improvements has been made. Mr. Jordan concluded his report by addressing the report released
by BPI entitled Mid-Term Assessment of the Plan; announcement of a $9.9 million Stimulus
Grant Award for Ogden Court; the solicitation process of new property managers and outcome of
CHA’s Summer Program.
In honor of National Hispanic Heritage Month, Edie Diaz, Special Assistant from the Office of
Chief Executive Officer presented a report on CHA and Latino Affairs.
Commissioner Ponce then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, Commissioner Ponce
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Ivers then presented a
Motion for the approval of resolution for Executive Session Items 1 through 3.

1

 (Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-109
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 1, 2009, requesting that the Board of
Commissioners approves the Personnel Actions Report for August 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
August 2009.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION 2009-CHA-110
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 14,
2009, entitled “Authorization for Contract Award of Legal Services”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes execution of Legal Services Agreements
with the law firms for the four legal practice areas listed below in an aggregate
amount not to exceed the annual appropriated budget for the Office of the General
Counsel and Risk Management for the payment of fees for legal services. All
contracts shall be in effect for two years or until legal services are completed,
with a one (1) year option to extend.
The list of approved firms is as follows and incorporated herein.

Group A, General Litigation
Albert, Whitehead
Brothers & Thompson
Burke, Burns & Pinelli
Buford Law Office
Cassiday, Schade
Drinker, Biddle & Reath
Duane Morris
Franzcek, Radelet & Rose
Gonzalez, Saggio & Harlan
Grant, Schumann
Greene & Letts
Hinshaw & Culbertson
Hoogendoorn & Talbot
Johnson, Jones, Snelling, Gilbert & Davis
Keating & Shure
Kinoy, Taren & Geraghty
Laner, Muchin, Dombrow, Becker,
Levin & Tominberg
Moore, Strickland
Much, Shelist, Denenberg, Ament
& Rubenstein
Neal & LeRoy
Perkins, Coie
Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt
Querrey & Harrow
Richardson & Mackoff
Rothschild, Barry & Myers
Sanchez, Daniels & Hoffman
Shefsky & Froelich
Smith Amundsen
Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal
Tribler, Orpett & Meyer
Ungaretti & Harris
Varga, Berger, Ledsky, Hayes & Casey

Group E, Contracts, Real Estate, Finance
and General Corporate Services
Albert, Whitehead
Applegate & Thorne-Thompson
Ballard, Spahr, Andrews & Ingersoll
Burke, Burns & Pinelli
Charity & Associates
Drinker, Biddle & Reath
Duane Morris
Gonzalez, Saggio & Harlan
Katten, Muchin, Rosenman
Kutak, Rock
Neal & LeRoy
Golden & Associates
Greenberg Traurig
Greene & Letts
Greensfelder, Hemker & Gale
Hawkins, Delafield & Wood
Hinshaw & Culbertson
Hoogendoorn & Talbot
Jenner & Block
Mayer, Brown
Perkins, Coie
Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt
Querrey & Harrow
Shefsky & Froelich
Schiff, Hardin
Ungaretti & Harris

Group B, Personal Injury Litigation
Brothers & Thompson
Burke, Burns & Pinelli
Buford Law Office
Cassiday, Schade
Doherty & Progar

Group F, Labor Negotiations
Brothers & Thompson
Burke, Burns & Pinelli
Drinker, Biddle & Reath
2

 Gonzalez, Saggio & Harlan
Greene & Letts
Greensfelder, Hemker & Gale
Judge, James & Kujawa
Moore, Strickland
Querrey & Harrow
Rothschild, Barry & Meyers
Sanchez, Daniels & Hoffman
Smith Amundsen
Tribler, Orpett & Meyer

Duane Morris
Franczek, Radelet & Rose
Greene & Letts
Hinshaw & Culbertson
Laner, Muchin, Dombrow, Becker, Levin
& Tominberg
Much, Shelist, Denenberg, Ament & Rubenstein
Perkins, Coie
Pugh, Jones, Johnson & Quandt
Querrey & Harrow
Schiff, Hardin
Smith Amundsen
Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal
Ungaretti & Harris

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-111
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 5
2009, requesting authorization to: 1) Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City of Chicago; 2) Submit a Disposition Application to HUD for land
formerly known as Grace Abbott Homes and Submit an Acquisition Application
for land owned by the City of Chicago; and 3) execute such other documents as
necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago; 2) Submit a Disposition application to HUD and submit an Acquisition
application to HUD and 3) Execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 thru 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Beverly and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers then presented the Finance and Audit Committee report. Per Commissioner
Ivers the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, September 9,
2009 at 1:00 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices. Elias Rosario, Chief Financial Officer and staff
presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of August 2009
and the 2nd Quarter Grant Progress Report.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Item A1 thru A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves contract extension with Ernst and Young (E&Y) for
independent professional auditing services. The Contract’s base term was two years with three
one-year options. Ernst & Young’s responsibilities include performing an annual audit to
determine whether CHA’s financial data and reports can be relied upon, to confirm that internal
controls systems are in place, to determine that proper policies and procedures are followed and
to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of grant awards. During the past four years,
Ernst & Young has met its contract requirements and has performed all tasks expected of the
3

 independent auditors. They utilized expertise from their various audit practice to deliver key
solutions to critical accounting and financial issues on behalf of the CHA. E & Y is willing and
able to provide independent professional auditing services to the CHA for the next contract term
under the terms and conditions as provided in the Contract. In addition, they have agreed to
perform the additional audit procedures and reviews as required by HUD for Property Based
Accounting. Ernst & Young’s participation in this process is crucial, and their knowledge of the
CHA’s operations will assist them in performing these additional services. In addition, the
Authority has received American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) stimulus funds and is
subject to new compliance and reporting requirements. This includes separate reporting on
ARRA stimulus grants and auditor reviews of such disclosures. E&Y’s continued participation in
the evolving scope of reporting is crucial for the Authority.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-112
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated September 9, 2009 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXECUTE AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO CONTRACT NUMBER 5160 WITH
ERNST & YOUNG , LLP (1) TO EXERCISE THE THIRD OPTION YEAR
FOR INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL AUDITING SERVICES AND (2)
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL AUDIT PROCEDURES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 5160 (the “Contract”) with
Ernst & Young, LLP to (1) exercise the second option to extend the Contract for
the period November 10, 2009 to November 9, 2010 to provide independent
professional auditing services for an amount not-to-exceed $682,000 and (2)
amend the Contract to include additional audit procedures required due to Project
Based Accounting and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
stimulus spending for an amount not-to-exceed $55,000. The total amount of
Amendment No. 3 to Contract No. 5160 will be an amount not-to-exceed
$737,000.

(Item A2
The resolution for Item A2 approves renewal of its insurance coverage for General Liability,
Excess Liability, Public Officials Liability, All Risk Property, Employed Lawyers Errors and
Omissions Liability, Employment Practices Liability, Auto Liability, Crime and Fiduciary
Liability. HUD previously authorized the CHA to have its insurance broker of record, AON,
competitively solicit bids on the CHA’s behalf for all forthcoming insurance procurements. Aon
directly and indirectly solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 20 carriers in June
2009. After reviewing the responses, Aon and CHA’s Risk Management Department
recommend the following insurers to provide the required insurance coverage for CHA for the
period October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010: Lexington, ACE, Axis, RSUI, Great
American, Chubb and Hartford. The recommended awards retention levels remain the same
except for Property Insurance which had its limits increased from $50MM to $60MM per
occurrence. This year’s renewal for all CHA’s insurance coverage requirements resulted in an
overall cost savings of $60,542 or over 4%.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-113
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September 9,
2009, entitled "AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CHA TO AWARD GENERAL
LIABILITY, EXCESS LIABILITY, PUBLIC OFFICIALS LIABILITY, ALL
RISK PROPERTY, EMPLOYED LAWYERS ERRORS AND OMISSIONS
LIABILITY, EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES LIABILITY, AUTO LIABILITY,
CRIME AND FIDUCIARY LIABILITY COVERAGE”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to award the following insurance coverage for the CHA for the period of
October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010 for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $1,407,735 through its insurance broker of record, Aon Risk Services
Central, Inc. (“Aon”): (1) General Liability written though Lexington in an
amount not-to-exceed $37,770; (2) Excess Liability coverage written through
Lexington in an amount not-to-exceed $212,432; (3) Public Officials Liability
4

 written through Lexington in an amount not-to-exceed $202,020; (4) All Risk
Property written through Lexington, Axis, RSUI and Great American in an
amount not-to-exceed $835,294; (5) Employed Lawyers Errors and Omissions
Liability written through Chubb in an amount not-to-exceed $19,940; (6)
Employment Practice Liability written through ACE in an amount not-to-exceed
$40,385; (7) Auto Liability written through Hartford in an amount not-to-exceed
$40,948; (8) Crime written through Great American in amount not-to-exceed
$4,496 and (9) Fiduciary Liability written through Chubb in an amount not-toexceed $14,450.
(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 authorizes the execution and delivery of a Master Indenture,
Supplemental Indenture, Bonds and Bond Purchase Agreement to issue and sell not more than
$38,000,000 principal amount of CHA’s Energy Service Capital Project Bonds, Series 2009.
The proceeds of the bond issue will be used to fund the contracts CHA has in place with Siemens
Technology Solutions and Ameresco Corp. The Build America Bonds have been authorized
under ARRA and will subsidize at least 35% of net interest cost incurred by the Authority.
Throughout the Plan for Transformation, CHA has utilized a number of HUD-compliant
performance contracts which guarantee a decrease in energy consumption through the
installation and use of highly efficient products and services creating value through the reduction
of utility costs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-114
Resolution providing for the issuance of not to exceed
$38,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Bonds, Series 2009, of
the Chicago Housing Authority, and authorizing the sale thereof;
and authorizing the preparation, execution and distribution of a
Preliminary Official Statement and an Official Statement; and
related matters.
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body
corporate and politic, duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the
State of Illinois (the "Authority"), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois, including,
without limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1, et. seq. (the "Act") and all laws
amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt
Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1, et. seq., as amended (the "Debt Reform Act") to acquire and dispose
of improved or unimproved property, to remove unsanitary or substandard conditions, to
construct and operate housing accommodations, to regulate the maintenance of housing projects
and to borrow, expend, loan, invest, and repay monies for the purposes set forth in the Act and
such powers are public objects and governmental functions essential to the public interest; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has the power to issue its revenue bonds to finance in whole
or in part the cost of acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, alteration,
extension or repair of any project or undertaking pursuant to the Act and to secure such bonds by
pledges of its revenues, or in any other manner; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority
desires to authorize the issuance and sale of not to exceed $38,000,000 aggregate principal
amount of its Bonds, Series 2009 to be issued as bonds, debt certificates or other obligations
permitted to be issued under the Act and the Debt Reform Act (the "Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Bonds are not a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county,
or the State or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority and no city, village,
incorporated town or country, or the State or any political subdivision thereof (other than the
Authority) will be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Bonds be payable out of any funds or
properties other than those of the Authority pledged; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Authority (the "Corporate Authorities")
have considered the needs of the Authority and, in so doing, the Corporate Authorities have
deemed and do now deem it advisable, necessary, and for the best interests of the Authority to
finance various capital improvements within the Authority including, in connection with said
work, acquisition of all land or rights in land, mechanical, electrical, and other services
necessary, useful, or advisable thereto (the "Project"), all as shown on preliminary plans and cost
estimates on file with and approved by the Corporate Authorities; and
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities deem it in the best interests of the Authority to
direct the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Authority
("Authorized Officers") to take all steps necessary to issue bonds of the Authority to enable the
Authority to finance the Project; and
5

 WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities have determined the total cost of the Project and
expenses incidental thereto, including financial, legal, architectural, and engineering services
related to such work provided for in this Resolution to be not less than $38,000,000, plus
estimated investment earnings which may be received on said sum prior to disbursement; and
WHEREAS, sufficient capital funds of the Authority are not available to pay the costs of
the Project, and it will, therefore, be necessary to borrow money in the principal amount of not to
exceed $38,000,000 for the purpose of paying such costs; and
WHEREAS, all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the
"Expenditures") (i) have been paid within 60 days prior to the date of this Resolution, or (ii) will
be paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, for purposes of Treasury Regulations Section 1.150-2, the Authority
reasonably expects to reimburse itself for the Expenditures with the proceeds of the Bonds (as
hereinafter defined);
WHEREAS, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "Recovery
Act") authorizes the Authority to designate all or a portion of the Bonds as Build America Bonds
(the "Build America Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Authority intends to designate all or a portion of the bonds as Build
America Bonds pursuant to the Recovery Act; and
WHEREAS, the Authority shall set forth the term of the Bonds and the Build America
Bonds, if any, in the Notification of Sale as hereinafter defined; and
NOW, THEREFORE, Be It and Resolved by the Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority;
Section 1.
Authority Incorporation of Preambles. The Corporate Authorities hereby
find that all of the recitals contained in the preambles to this Resolution are full, true and correct
and does incorporate them into this Resolution by this reference.
Section 2.
Authorization. It is necessary and advisable for the Authority to pay the
costs of the Project and to borrow money and, in evidence thereof and for the purpose of
financing same, enter into any agreement as provided in the Notification of Sale of the Bonds
(the "Notification of Sale") and, further, to provide for the issuance and delivery of the Bonds.
Section 3.
Execution and Filing. From and after the effective date of this Resolution,
the Authorized Officers are hereby authorized and directed to execute and attest, respectively,
any agreement, of this Resolution, and to do all things necessary and essential to effectuate the
provisions of any agreement, including the execution of any documents and certificates
incidental thereto or necessary to carry out the provisions thereof. Further, if debt certificates are
issued as provided in the Notification of Sale, the Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer, as
nominee-seller, is hereby authorized and directed to execute an Installment Sale Agreement
pursuant to the Debt Reform Act. Upon full execution, the original of any such Agreement shall
be filed with the Secretary and retained in the Authority records and shall constitute authority for
the issuance of the debt certificates authorized.
Section 4.
Bond Details. For the purpose of providing for the Project, there shall be
issued and sold Bonds of the Authority in the principal amount of not to exceed $38,000,000,
and in one or more series (taxable or tax-exempt) as further set forth, which Bonds shall be
designated as provided in the Notification of Sale. The Bonds shall be dated the date set forth in
the hereinafter defined Notification of Sale, and shall also bear the date of authentication, shall
be in fully registered form, shall be in denominations of $5,000 each and authorized integral
multiples thereof (but no single Bond shall represent installments of principal maturing on more
than one date), shall be numbered 1 and upward, and the Bonds shall become due and payable
serially (not later than 2029) as set forth in the Notification of Sale.
The Bonds shall bear interest at rates not to exceed 7% per annum, from their date or
from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for,
until the principal amount of the Bonds is paid, such interest (computed upon the basis of a
360-day year of twelve 30-day months) being payable as set forth in the Notification of Sale.
Interest on each Bond shall be paid by check or draft of the Bond Registrar and Paying Agent
(the "Bond Registrar"), as specified in the Notification of Sale, payable upon presentation in
lawful money of the United States of America, to the person in whose name such Bond is
registered at the close of business on the 15th day of the month next preceding the interest
payment date. The principal of the Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States
of America at the principal corporate trust office of the Bond Registrar.
The Bonds shall be signed by the Chairperson and Secretary, and shall be countersigned
by the Treasurer, and the seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto or printed thereon, and in
case any officer whose signature shall appear on any Bond shall cease to be such officer before
the delivery of such Bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all
purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until delivery.
All Bonds shall have thereon a certificate of authentication substantially in the form
hereinafter set forth duly executed by the Bond Registrar as authenticating agent of the Authority
6

 and showing the date of authentication. No Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose or
be entitled to any security or benefit under this Resolution unless and until such Bond of
authentication shall have been duly executed by the Bond Registrar by manual signature, and
such certificate of authentication upon any such Bond shall be conclusive evidence that such
Bond has been authenticated and delivered under this Resolution. The certificate of
authentication on any Bond shall be deemed to have been executed by the Bond Registrar if
signed by an authorized officer of the Bond Registrar, but it shall not be necessary that the same
officer sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds issued hereunder.
Section 5.
Redemption. (a) The Bonds shall be subject to optional and mandatory
redemption as set forth in the Notification of Sale.
Section 6.
Form of Bond. The Bonds shall be in the form as provided in the
Notification of Sale.
Section 7.
Sale of Bonds. The Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to deliver
the Bonds to the purchaser thereof as identified in the Notification of Sale (the "Purchaser").
Authority is hereby delegated to the Authorized Officer (i) to sell all, but not less than all, of the
Bonds to the Purchaser at a purchase price of at least 98% of par, plus accrued interest on the
Bonds from their dated date to the date of delivery and (ii) to determine all of the terms and
details of the Bonds not determined in this Resolution including whether to purchase insurance.
The sale of the Bonds shall be evidenced by a Notification of Sale which shall be signed by the
Authorized Officer. A manually executed counterpart of the Notification of Sale shall be filed
with the Secretary and the Bond Registrar. The Authorized Officer and the Secretary are
authorized and directed to execute a bond purchase agreement (the "Purchase Contract") in
connection with the sale of the Bonds, in the name of and on behalf of the Authority. The
purchase agreement shall be substantially in the form of purchase agreements commonly used in
transactions similar to that described in the Resolution, with such changes as necessary to reflect
the terms and provisions of the Bonds, this Resolution and such other changes as the Authorized
Officer shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds. No
person holding any office of the Authority, either by election or appointment, is in any manner
financially interested directly in his own name or indirectly in the name of any other person,
association, trust or corporation, in the Purchase Contract.
The use by the Purchaser of any Preliminary Official Statement and any final Official
Statement relating to the Bonds (the "Official Statement") is hereby ratified, approved and
authorized; the execution and delivery of the Official Statement is hereby authorized; and the
officers of the Corporate Authorities are hereby authorized to take any action as may be required
on the part of the Authority to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Purchase
Contract, this Resolution, said Preliminary Official Statement, the Official Statement and the
Bonds.
Section 8.
Tax Covenants. In order to preserve the exclusion of interest on the Bonds
from gross income for federal tax purposes under Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 as existing on the date of issuance of the Bonds (the "Code") and as a condition to issuing
the Build America Bonds, and as an inducement to purchasers of the Bonds, the Authority
represents, covenants and agrees that:
(a)
No more than ten percent (10%) of the payment of the principal of or interest on
the Bonds will be (under the terms of the Bonds, this ordinance or any underlying
arrangement), directly or indirectly, (i) secured by any interest in property used or
to be used for a private business use or payments in respect of such property or
(ii) derived from payments (whether or not to the Authority) in respect of such
property or borrowed money used or to be used for a private business use.
(b)

No more than five percent (5%) of the Bond proceeds will be loaned to any entity
or person other than a state or local governmental unit. No more than five percent
(5%) of the Bond proceeds will be transferred, directly or indirectly, or deemed
transferred to a nongovernmental person in any manner that would in substance
constitute a loan of the Bond proceeds.

(c)

The Authority reasonably expects, as of the date hereof, that the Bonds will not
meet either the private business use test described in paragraph (a) above or the
private loan test described in paragraph (b) above during the entire term of the
Bonds.

(d)

No more than five percent (5%) of the proceeds of the Bonds will be attributable
to private security or payments described in (a) attributable to unrelated or
disproportionate private business use. For this purpose, the private business use
test is applied by taking into account only use that is not related to any
government use of proceeds of the issue ("Unrelated Use") and use that is related
7

 but disproportionate to
("Disproportionate Use").

any

governmental

use

of

those

proceeds

(e)

Neither the Authority nor the Corporate Authorities will take any action or fail to
take any action with respect to the Bonds that would result in the loss of the
exclusion from gross income for federal tax purposes on the Bonds pursuant to
Section 103 of the Code, nor will the Authority or the Corporate Authorities act in
any other manner which would adversely affect such exclusion.

(f)

It shall not be an event of default under this ordinance if the interest on any Bond
is not excludable from gross income for federal tax purposes or otherwise
pursuant to any provision of the Code which is not currently in effect and in
existence on the date of issuance of the Bonds.

(g)

The Authority certifies that to the extent necessary to preserve the exclusion from
gross income of interest on the Bonds for federal tax purposes, it will rebate any
arbitrage profits to the United States of America in accordance with Section
148(f) of the Code and the Regulations promulgated thereunder.

(h)

These covenants are based solely on current law in effect and in existence on the
date of delivery of such Bonds.
The Authority hereby authorizes the officials of the Authority responsible for issuing the
Bonds, the same being the Authorized Officers and the Secretary, to make such further covenants
and certifications as may be necessary to assure that the use thereof will not cause the Bonds to
be arbitrage bonds and to assure that the interest on the Bonds will be excludable from gross
income for federal income tax purposes. In connection therewith, the Authority further agrees:
(a) through its officers, to make such further specific covenants, representations as shall be
truthful, and assurances as may be necessary or advisable; (b) to consult with counsel approving
the Bonds; (c) to pay to the United States, as necessary, such sums of money representing
required rebates of excess arbitrage profits relating to the Bonds as required pursuant to Section
148 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder; (d) to file such forms, statements,
and supporting documents as may be required and in a timely manner; and (e) if deemed
necessary or advisable by their officers, to employ and pay fiscal agents, financial advisors,
attorneys, and other persons to assist the Authority in such compliance.
Section 9.
Build America Bonds. All or a portion of the Bonds known as the Build
America Bonds are hereby designated as Build America Bonds pursuant to the provisions of the
Recovery Act and the Code. Terms of said Bonds and Build America Bonds shall be set forth in
the Notification of Sale.
Section 10.
Noncompliance with Tax Covenants.
Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this ordinance, the covenants and authorizations contained in this ordinance (the
"Tax Sections") which are designed to preserve the exclusion of interest on the Bonds from
gross income under federal law (the "Tax Exemption") need not be complied with if the
Authority receives an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel that any Tax Section is
unnecessary to preserve the Tax Exemption.
Section 11.
List of Bondholders. The Bond Registrar shall maintain a list of the names
and addresses of the holders of all Bonds and upon any transfer shall add the name and address
of the new Bond holder and eliminate the name and address of the transferor Bond holder.
Section 12.
Duties of Bond Registrar. If requested by the Bond Registrar, the
Authorized Officers and Secretary are authorized to execute the Bond Registrar's standard form
of agreement between the Authority and the Bond Registrar with respect to the obligations and
duties of the Bond Registrar hereunder which may include the following:
(a)
to act as certificate registrar, authenticating agent, paying agent and transfer agent
as provided herein;
(b)
to maintain a list of Bondholders as set forth herein and to furnish such list to the
Authority upon request, but otherwise to keep such list confidential;
(c)
to give notice of redemption of Bonds as provided herein;
(d)
to cancel and/or destroy Bonds which have been paid at maturity or upon earlier
redemption or submitted for exchange or transfer;
(e)
to furnish the Authority at least annually a certificate with respect to Bonds
cancelled and/or destroyed; and
(f)
to furnish the Authority at least annually an audit confirmation of Bonds paid,
Bonds outstanding and payments made with respect to interest on the Bonds.
Section 13.
Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. The Authorized Officers are hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking
under Section (b)(5) of Rule 15c2-12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Continuing Disclosure
8

 Undertaking"). When the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking is executed and delivered on
behalf of the Authority as herein provided, the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking will be
binding on the Authority and the officers, employees and agents of the Authority, and the
officers, employees and agents of the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed
to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out
and comply with the provisions of the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking as executed.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Resolution, the sole remedy for failure to comply
with the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be the ability of the beneficial owner of any
Bond to seek mandamus or specific performance by court order to cause the Authority to comply
with its obligations under the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking.
Section 14. Reimbursement Declaration. The Issuer declares its intent under Treasury
Regulations Section 1.150-2 to reimburse any expenditures made on costs of the Project prior to
the issuance of the Bonds, if issued, with proceeds of the Bonds.
Section 15. Municipal Bond Insurance. In the event the payment of principal and
interest on the Bonds is insured pursuant to a municipal bond insurance policy (the "Municipal
Bond Insurance Policy") issued by a bond insurer (the "Bond Insurer"), and as long as such
Municipal Bond Insurance Policy shall be in full force and effect, the Authority and the Bond
Registrar agree to comply with such usual and reasonable provisions regarding presentment and
payment of the Bonds, subrogation of the rights of the Bondholders to the Bond Insurer upon
payment of the Bonds by the Bond Insurer, amendment hereof, or other terms, as approved by
the Corporate Authorities on advice of counsel, their approval to constitute full and complete
acceptance by the Authority of such terms and provisions under authority of this Section.
Section 16.
Severability. If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
Resolution shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the
remaining provisions of this Resolution.
Section 17.
Repeal. All ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith
are and the same are hereby repealed, and this Resolution shall be in full force and effect
forthwith upon its adoption.
(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves CHA to become a founding member of SmartChicago.
The CHA, in conjunction with the City of Chicago, Chicago Sister Agencies and the University
of Chicago submitted a proposal to the U.S. Department of Commerce for Broadband
Technology Opportunities funding commonly known as “SmartChicago”. SmartChicago is a
technology program designed to bring technology resources to underserved neighborhoods
across the City of Chicago. A recent city-commissioned study by the University of Illinois and
University of Iowa revealed that as much as 40% of Chicago constituents may have little to no
Internet access. Broadband Internet service is critical infrastructure necessary to deliver services
that public housing residents need and low income families are disproportionately adversely
affected by the lack of technology resources. The advanced digital infrastructure proposed
through SmartChicago would potentially service 10,000 CHA homes, would meet a vitally
important need by augmenting CHA’s existing programs, and would also open the door to a
range of new innovative programs. Affordable broadband Internet access in the home would
allow CHA residents to leverage additional online training, career exploration, job searches and
access online supportive services from their homes. As part of the founding partnership in
SmartChicago, the CHA has pledged up to $3,000,000 dollars as matching funds for the
SmartChicago project. Over $30 million in cash, in-kind and operating contributions has been
pledged or committed by the project’s eight founding members: City of Chicago, Chicago Park
District, Chicago Public Schools, Chicago Transit Authority, City Colleges of Chicago, Cook
County, University of Chicago and Chicago Housing Authority to match the federal
government’s requested investment of approximately $106 million in SmartChicago through
SmartChicago’s grant application.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-115
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9,
2009, “AUTHORIZATION FOR CHA TO BECOME A FOUNDING MEMBER
OF SMARTCHICAGO COMMUNICATIONS IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
CITY OF CHICAGO FOR ITS ARRA BROADBAND STIMULUS
APPLICATION AND AUTHORIZATION FOR A COMMITMENT OF UP TO
$3,000,000 DOLLARS IN MATCHING FUNDS FOR THE SMART`CHICAGO
COMMUNICATIONS INITIATIVE”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
9

 THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve the inclusion of CHA as a founding member of
SmartChicago Communications and authorizes the Chicago Housing Authority’s
pledge of up to three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) in matching funds for the
SmartChicago Communications Initiative.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 ratifies acceptance of a grant award from HUD in the amount of
$54,635.00 from HUD’s Public Housing Family Self-Sufficiency Program (FSS). The Grant
Acceptance had to be promptly signed and returned to HUD in order to continue the
implementation of the Family Self-Sufficiency Program, and a partnership with Heartland
Human Care Services to target 50 public housing program participants. The purpose of the
Public Housing FSS program is to promote the development of local strategies to coordinate the
use of accessible services under the FSS program with public and private resources, enable
participating families to increase earned income, reduce or eliminate the need for welfare
assistance, and make progress toward achieving economic independence and housing selfsufficiency. The Chicago Housing Authority has been partnering with Heartland Human Care
Services to provide job training, financial education and incentives to increase assets earned
through wage increases. The anticipated outcome of the program is a transition from dependency
on social services and public housing to self-sufficiency.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-116
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 9, 2009 entitled “RATIFICATION OF
ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT AWARD FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND AUTHORIZATION TO
ENTER INTO A SUB-GRANTEE AGREEMENT WITH HEARTLAND
HUMAN
CARE
SERVICES
AND
INCREASE
THE
FY2009
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of a grant award from the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Public Housing
Family Self-Sufficiency Program in the amount of $54,635 and authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to increase the FY 2009 comprehensive
budget by $54,635.00 and enter into a sub-grant agreement with Heartland
Human Care Services for $54,635.00 in order to continue the implementation of
the Family Self-Sufficiency Program.

(Item A7)
In June, 2009 the CHA issued an Invitation to competitively solicit qualified firms and/or
individuals to supply and deliver office supplies and toner cartridges to the CHA. The IFB was
advertised in area newspapers. The CHA also directly solicited 54 vendors, including 10 MBE
vendors and 10 WBE vendors. A total of twenty vendors picked up IFB packages. Of the seven
bids received and opened it was determined that Office Depot and Inter-City Supply Company,
Inc. were the lowest, responsive and responsible bidders for office supplies and toner cartridges
for the Authority-wide initiative. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A7 approves award of
contract to Inter-City Supply and Office Depot.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009–CHA–117
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9,
2009 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH
OFFICE DEPOT, INC. FOR THE SUPPLY AND INSIDE DELIVERY OF
OFFICE SUPPLIES AND WITH INTER-CITY SUPPLY COMPANY, INC.
FOR THE SUPPLY AND INSIDE DELIVERY OF TONER CARTRIDGES”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Office or his designee
to enter into a three (3) year contract with a one (1) year option with Office Depot
in an amount not-to-exceed $250,000.00 for the supply and inside delivery of
office supplies, and to enter into a three (3) year contract with a one (1) year
10

 option with Inter-City Supply Company, Inc. in an amount not-to-exceed
$300,000.00 for the supply and inside delivery of toner cartridges.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 and A5 thru A7 was
seconded by Commissioner Beverly and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced a Motion to modify the list of Item 4, Awardees approved at
the September 9th Finance and Audit Committee. Per Commissioner Ivers, after further review of
the recommended awardees, the following three companies would best serve the Authority’s
needs: BMO Capital Markets to serve as Designated Senior Manager, and Rice Financial
Products Company and Siebert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC, to serve as Eligible Senior/CoManagers
(Item A4)
The Authority anticipates issuing governmental purpose or private activity revenue bonds to fund
the cost of rehabilitating and/or redeveloping portions of its public housing units. It is
anticipated that financing transactions will include secured first mortgages and other forms of
debt. In addition to tax-exempt bonds, the Authority expects to utilize Federal, State and Local
housing subsidies including, but not limited to: HOPE VI, HOME, LIHTC, Illinois Housing
Trust Fund, and Federal Home Loan Bank Affordable Housing Program grants. The Authority’s
key objectives are to complete the redevelopment plan with 25,000 senior, family and scattered
site units that provide safe, quality housing in vibrant communities that are well integrated into
their respective neighborhoods. The CHA’s focus with regard to its family developments is to
create mixed-income communities when possible. The RFP for Bond Underwriter Services was
released in July 2009 and advertised in area newspapers. Of the six proposals received, four
firms were asked to come in for oral presentations and upon review of the proposals, the
information gathered in the oral presentations and the best and final offers, the evaluation
committee determined that BMO Capital, Rice Financial Products Company and Siebert
Brandford Shank & Co., LLC would best serve the Authority’s needs. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A4 approves award of contract to the three named firms.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-118
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated September 9,
2009, entitled, “Authorization to enter into separate contracts with BMO Capital
Markets to serve as Designated Senior Manager, and with Rice Financial Products
Company and Siebert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC, to serve as Eligible
Senior/Co-Managers
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with BMO Capital Markets to serve as
Designated Senior Manager, and with Rice Financial Products Company and
Siebert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC, to serve as eligible Senior/Co-Managers,
on a project-by-project basis, based upon the size and complexity of each
transaction for the two year base term with a one-year option.

The Motion to adopt the modified resolution for Item A4 was seconded by Commissioner Reidy
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
11

 Nays:

Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
September 10, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Resolutions for
Items B1 thru B4, discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Modification No. G-01 to contract with Oakk construction
for additional work related to renovation at Washington Park Homes in the amount of
$194,398.05 which covers upgrades to specified windows, exterior steel doors, frames, insulation
and roofing to meet the Chicago Energy Conservation Code requirements for the energy efficient
U-factor, Reflectivity Value and R-values of these items. These changes are needed to conform
to the new Chicago Energy Conservation Code which went into effect as of April 22, 2009. This
change order represents the increase in prices of those materials specifically affected by the
Code.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-119
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9,
2009 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-01
TO CONTRACT NO. 9020 WITH OAKK CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION OF WASHINGTON PARK HOMES (IL2-034 & 059)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract No. 9020 with
Oakk Construction Co., Inc. in the amount of $194,398.05 for additional
renovation work required as a result of subsequent municipal code changes at
Washington Park Homes (IL2-034 & 059). The new total contract amount of
Contract No. 9020 is $8,364,256.05.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 ratifies Modification G-01 to contract with Walsh for additional work
related to the renovation at Lawndale Gardens in the amount of $177,950.00. The work
includes, but is not limited to, removing and replacing existing structures and pipes of the sewer
system of Phases 1 and 2. It was discovered that the existing sewer was in poor condition and in
need of repair. The existing manholes were brick and had significantly deteriorated over time.
The existing sewer pipe had collar ties which had collapsed at various locations and needed to be
replaced. Performing this work will provide a new system in the areas most at risk during
restoration. This assures long-term performance for the main portion of the sewer. In addition,
the entire Phase 2 system will be new, minimizing the risk of further deterioration during
construction of the northernmost portion of the project site. In order to avoid delay on this
project, work has already commenced on the repairs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-120
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9,
2009 entitled “RATIFICATION OF MODIFICATION NO. G-01 TO
12

 CONTRACT NO. 9025 WITH WALSH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY OF IL
FOR ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE RENOVATION OF
LAWNDALE GARDENS (IL2-005) – PHASE 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratify Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract
No. 9025 with Walsh Construction Company of IL in the amount of $177,950.00
for additional renovation work at Lawndale Gardens (IL2-005) – Phase 2. The
new total contract amount of Contract No. 9025 is $8,485,717.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid for the renovation of 240 units and the construction of 1
laundry facility at Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase 4. The IFB was advertised in industry and
area newspapers and on the CHA website. After a thorough review of all bid submittals a preaward survey meeting was held with the lowest apparent bidder, Walsh Construction Company.
During this meeting, representatives of Walsh answered all questions satisfactorily. As a result of
an extensive review of the bid materials and the pre-award survey meeting, it was determined
that Walsh is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $48,927,713.00. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract to Walsh.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-121
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9,
2009 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH WALSH
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY OF IL FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT ALTGELD GARDENS (IL2–007) – PHASE 4 (BLOCK 9,
BLOCK 10 AND LAUNDRY FACILITY NO. 4)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Walsh Construction Company of IL in the
amount of $48,927,713.00 for the renovation of two hundred forty (240) Family
Housing units and the construction of one (1) laundry facility building at Altgeld
Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase 4. The work is to be completed within three hundred
sixty-five (365) days of the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DB Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B4)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, CHA solicited bids from general contractors to
perform exterior envelope repair, interior renovation, and ADA and site improvements at Hoyne
Community Center located at 123-25 N. Hoyne. The general scope of the work includes, but is
not limited to, replacing exterior doors, windows, and their frames, tuck pointing, roof repair,
window guards, and graffiti coating, new elevator, new gym partition, fire alarm system
upgraded landscaping and environmental remediation. Of the eight bids received and opened, a
pre-award survey meeting with the lowest apparent bidder, Tropic Construction Corporation. As
a result of the review of the bid materials and the pre-award survey meeting, it was determined
that Tropic is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $2,267,414.00. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to Tropic Construction for site improvements
at Hoyne Community Center.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-122
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 9,
2009 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH TROPIC
CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION FOR THE EXTERIOR ENVELOPE
REPAIR, INTERIOR RENOVATION, and AND ADA AND SITE
IMPROVEMENTS AT HOYNE COMMUNITY CENTER”;

13

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Tropic Construction Corporation in the
amount of $2,267,414.00 for the exterior envelope repair, interior renovation, and
ADA and site improvements at Hoyne Community Center. The exterior envelope
repair is to be completed within one hundred fifty-two (152) calendar days from
the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. All other work is to be completed
within three hundred sixty-five (365) calendar days from the date set forth in the
Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B5)
The Housing Choice Voucher Portfolio has recently undergone a major transformation. In 2007,
the CHA issued a Request for the Administration and Operation of the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation and Housing Choice Voucher Programs. After
lengthy negotiations, the CHA decided to bifurcate the contract between two vendors: Quadel
and CVR & Associates. Soon thereafter, the HCV management was reorganized under the Asset
Management Division and restructured with two new departments: HCV Administration and the
HCV Quality Assurance. The purpose of the new structure and organization of the HCV
Portfolio is to unify the program with the Public Housing Asset Management approach. During
this course of transforming the HCV Portfolio, many areas of concern for program operation
were disclosed; both through the course of internal process review as well as through the HUD
Office of Investigation audit findings. In order to address the many areas of concern for the
program operations, the management of the HCV Program strongly believes that the Housing
Choice Voucher Portfolio requires the technical advice and of an expert in the operations,
regulatory compliance and audit control of Moderate Rehabilitation and Section 8 Programs.
The issues facing the HCV Program require a depth of knowledge and experience in the
interpretation and application of HUD regulatory requirements. The CHA therefore advertised a
Request for Proposal for Moderate Rehabilitation, Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program
Technical Advisor Services. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and the CHA website.
The CHA also directly solicited four firms, in addition to eighteen Assist MBE/WBE/DBE
Agencies. The CHA received a single proposal from Nan McKay & Associates. The proposal
submitted from Nan McKay was reviewed by the evaluation team representing several business
areas of the CHA. That the proposal was responsive to the requests set forth in the RFP and
exceeds the requested minimal qualifications for the on-site technical advisor. Nan McKay
consultants have worked throughout the nation providing consulting services and training for
Housing Choice Voucher. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award of contract to
Nan McKay.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-123
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated September 9, 2009 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
ENTER INTO AGREEMENT WITH NAN MCKAY AND ASSOCIATES FOR
MODERATE REHABILITATION AND SECTION 8 HOUSING CHOICE
VOUCHER PROGRAM TECHNICAL ADVISOR SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Agreement with Nan McKay and Associates
commencing November 1, 2009 for a term of one year, in amount not-to-exceed
$381,778 to provide Moderate Rehabilitation and Section 8 Housing Choice

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B5 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Michael Ivers
14

 Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, September 10, 2008 at approximately 2:25 p.m. at the 60 East Van
Buren Corporate Offices. Linda Kaiser, Executive Vice President of Resident Services, and Dr.
Brian Hill from City Colleges of Chicago presented the Committee with an update on the 2008
Summer Food Program.
Commissioner Young then introduced a Motion for the adoption of Resolution for Item C1 thru
C4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item C1 and C2)
The resolutions for Items C1 and C2 approves the first one-year option of Contract No. 8064
and Contract No. 8065 with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois (HCP) and Employment &
Employer Services (E&ES), respectively, to continue to provide Good Neighbor Workshops.
During the term of their contracts HCP and E&ES satisfactorily performed all their contractual
obligations. The Contract’s primary focus is to conduct workshops that will provide residents
with the necessary tools to maintain their household, their finances and foster positive and lasting
relationships within their communities. Workshops are designed for residents in the process of
relocating, as well as residents permanently housed who may need assistance. Residents with
lease compliance issues or other identified need for workshops are referred to HCP and E&ES by
CHA and case management services. Upon the completion of a workshop, each participant sets
an individualized goal to focus on one or more skills learned during the training. Additionally,
CHA desires to increase the funding provided to HCP and E&ES for Good Neighbor workshops
due to the success of the first year of the program. The requested funding will allow HCP and
E&ES to continue to provide the current series of four workshops (Home Management and
Maintenance, Financial Literacy, Community Building and School Choices), as well as enhance
these workshops and create new workshops where needed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-124
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 9, 2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION CONTRACT NO. 8064 WITH
HOUSING CHOICE PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS TO PROVIDE GOOD
NEIGHBOR WORKSHOPS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one-year option Contract No. 8064 with the Housing
Choice Partners of Illinois (“Contract”) to provide Good Neighbor workshops for
the period of October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010, and to increase the
Contract’s funding in an amount not-to-exceed $390,000. The Contract’s new
total not-to-exceed compensation amount will be $556,000.

(Item C2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-125
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 9, 2009, entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION CONTRACT NO. 8065 WITH
EMPLOYMENT & EMPLOYER SERVICES, INC. TO PROVIDE GOOD
NEIGHBOR WORKSHOPS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

15

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one-year option Contract No. 8065 with the
Employment & Employer Services, Inc. (“Contract”) to provide Good Neighbor
workshops for the period of October 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010, and to
increase the Contract’s funding in an amount not-to-exceed $400,000. The
Contract’s new total not-to-exceed compensation amount will be $600,000.

(Item C3)
The resolution for item C3 approves contract extension with LR ABLA LLC to continue to
provide Community and Supportive Services to families residing within or relocating to the
Roosevelt Square Community. During the term of the contract LR ABLA has satisfactorily
performed its contractual obligations. The Contract’s primary focus is to assist CHA families that
have chosen to return to the Roosevelt Square mixed-finance community. Services are designed
to address site specific criteria and the barriers a family may face in meeting the screening
criteria. The provision of services at the redeveloped Roosevelt Square community,
contemplated as part of the competitive procurement of the Developer, is dictated by the Master
Development Agreement governing this community. The requested additional funding for the
Contract’s one-year extension will allow LR ABLA to continue servicing the 253 families
currently residing within Roosevelt Square Phase I and II and those families that will relocate to
Roosevelt Square in future phases as they are completed. LR ABLA, through its subcontractor,
will offer post-occupancy services to help residents maintain their housing eligibility in Phases I
and II of the redeveloped community. These services continue to focus on job readiness,
placement and retention, lease compliance, counseling and substance abuse, youth activities, and
other services to promote self-sufficiency.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-126
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 9, 2009, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0663 WITH LR ABLA LLC TO PROVIDE
COMMUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES TO FAMILIES RESIDING
WITHIN OR RELOCATING TO THE ROOSEVELT SQUARE
COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend Contract No. 0663 with the LR ABLA LLC (“Contract”) to
provide community and supportive services for CHA families who have chosen to
move to the redeveloped Roosevelt Square Community for the period of October
1, 2009 through September 30, 2010, and to increase the Contract’s funding in an
amount not-to-exceed $500,000.00, adding it to the carryover balance available at
the end of the current term. The Contract’s new total not-to-exceed compensation
amount will be $6,000,025.40.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C3 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Hallie Amey
Deverra Beverly
Dr. Mildred Harris
Myra King
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Sandra Young
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the CHA Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

s/b:
16

Lee Chuc Gill
Custodian and Keeper of Records

 