Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of December 16, 2003
ABLA –Jane Addams Center, 1254 South Loomis, Chicago, IL

Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

Status

1.

Deverra Beverly

Welcomed Commissioners to ABLA. Thanked CHA staff
and Commissioners for continued support.

Comments Noted

2.

Mary Williams

Recently moved into rehabbed apartment. Bathroom sink
and shower door need repair. If washers and dryers are
placed in designated space, oven door will not open.
Need curtain rods.

CHA staff and contractor visited the unit and made final adjustments to the rehab
work already completed. Curtain rods are not part of the scope of rehab work.
Consequently, such a request for installation, not purchase, must be made directly to
the property manager.

3.

Delores Fitzpatrick

Based on a response to a question asked in November, it
appears that only one resident of the Wells development
was involved in the Working Group that decided the name
of the new mixed-income community to be built at the
site. How can one tenant represent the entire Wells
community?

The Working Group that selected the name of the new mixed-income community
(South Lake Pointe) included the Presidents of both the Wells and the Madden Park
Local Advisory Councils. Residents of both the Wells and Madden Park sites elected
these LAC Presidents to serve as their representative on matters affecting their
properties. Participation in the Working Group is one of the designated functions of
an LAC President.

4.

Joseph Watkins

Would like to receive information on investigation result of
contractors who are paying residents with Money Orders
with regards to Section 3 hiring. Eight gentlemen working
with McCormak Baron at Wells have not been paid for
work done. Requesting investigation on this matter.

CHA Contract Compliance met with representatives of McCormack & Baron to
discuss allegations. The workers in question were not Section 3, but rather vendors
hired to paint senior apartments. These vendors were paid. They were paid by
check, not money order. According to federal law and HUD regulations, money
orders are an acceptable means of payment insofar as taxes are detailed to the
individual employee and paid and reported to the IRS.

 