MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
December 17, 2002
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
December 17, 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the Jane Addams Center, located at 1254 South Loomis in
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
almost 6,000 units have been fully rehabbed, bringing the grand total of rehabbed units to
approximately 9,000. According to Mr. Peterson, in three year the CHA has completed 12
mixed-finance agreements compared to just one in the previous fiver years. In addition, 800
families have successfully relocated this year, bringing the total relocatees to over 2000 since
the Plan For Transformation began. In the past 18 months, over 12,000 cases were opened by
the service connectors and over 23,000 people have been referred to social service agencies for
issues like lease compliance and family stability. Also, during this year the Authority assisted
3,000 residents to find jobs. Mr. Peterson then highlighted the financial accomplishments and
upcoming redevelopment projects at ABLA, Robert Taylor and Lowden Homes. Mr. Peterson
concluded his report by acknowledging the Board for their continuing guidance and leadership
and announced that he is looking forward to the coming year and to making even more progress.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.

Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to

1

 discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolution discussed in Executive Session.
A Motion to approve the Resolution for Item 1 discussed in Executive Session was then
presented by Commissioner Young.
(Executive Session I No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-166
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 3, 2002 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for November 2002.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for
November 2002.

The Motion to adopt the Resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by
Commissioner Davis and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, December 11, 2002 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Staff
presented the Committee with an update on Quadel and the Relocation and Housing Choice
Survey.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee:
(Item A1)
In November 2002, the CHA issued an Invitation For Bid soliciting qualified firms to provide
resident relocation services for CHA residents moving into the private market or within CHA’s
developments. Thirty-six vendors were directly solicited of which 6 were MBE, 3 WBE and 4
DBE. Based on the evaluation of the bids the following three firms were deemed to be
responsive and responsible: Reo Movers & Van Lines, Inc., Medley’s Moving & Storage, Inc.
and Midway Moving & Storage. The resolution for Item A1 approves award of contract to the
three named firms.

RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-167
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 5, 2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into three
(3) contracts for Resident Relocation Services with Reo Movers and Van Lines,
Inc., Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc. and Midway Moving & Storage.”

2

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with each of the three vendors, Reo Movers and
Van Lines, Inc., Medley’s Moving and Storage, Inc., and Midway Moving and
Storage, for resident relocation services in an amount of $400,000 each, for a
cumulative amount not-to-exceed $1,200,000.00 for a twenty-four month term
with three, one year options to extend, subject to HUD and Board approval.

(Item A2)
Pursuant to the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, social services previously performed by CHA
were outsourced to the City of Chicago acting through its Department of Human Services
(CDHS). The Authority’s goal is to continue mainstreaming and integrating public housing
residents into the citywide services network administered by CDHS. The resolution for Item
A2 approves a new Intergovernmental Agreement with CDHS for the continuation of the
services provided which include: providing a comprehensive approach to link CHA families, to
services provided by public and private agencies; provide outreach to residents to ensure that
CHA families are made aware of available services and programs in the citywide network;
offer priority enrolment for CHA residents for certain programs, maximize coordination with
other City, County and State services agencies and provide comprehensive assessments of
family requirements for the most needy CHA families.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-168
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 26,
2002 requesting "Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Chicago Department of Human Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
acting through its Department of Human Services for linking the CHA families to
city-wide services, including private and public sectors, state and federally funded
service providers for the term of January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 in an
amount not-to-exceed $7,100,000.00.

(Item A3)
The City Department of Aging (CDoA) has been serving CHA residents since 1994 in various
capacities. However, as part of the CHA’s Plan for Transformation, the social services
programs for senior residents previously performed directly by CHA staff were outsourced to
CDoA. The resolution for Item A3 approves a new Intergovernmental Agreement with CDoA
which will allow the CHA to continue to economically and efficiently provide these service for
senior citizens residing in 42 of the CHA’s senior buildings. CDoA is uniquely qualified to
perform these services for senior citizens in the City of Chicago and has received federal
designation as the Area Agency on Aging. Under this new IGA, CDoA will continue to provide
eligible residents with home delivered meals, chore services, congregate dining, benefits
eligibility checklist, assessment, educational/cultural/and recreational activities, case
management, legal assistance, respite care, transportation, nursing home pre-screening and
linkage to other needed services through the State of Illinois Community care Program.
Similar services for the remaining CHA senior buildings are provided by the private property
managers.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-169
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated November 26, 2002 entitled “Authorization to Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department on Aging to Provide
a Coordinated Supportive Social Services Program for Senior Citizens Residing in
Forty-two CHA Senior Buildings”;

3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
Department on Aging to provide a coordinated supportive social service program
for senior citizens residing in forty-two (42) CHA senior buildings for the period
of January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2003 for an amount not to exceed
$2,438,241.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Michael Ivers, then presented the Operations & Facility Committee report due to
the absence of Commissioner Gates. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Operations & Facility
Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, December 11, 2002 at 1:30 p.m. at the
Corporate Office, 626 W. Jackson.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B10 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
and Facilities Committee:
(Item B1)
In December 2000, the Board approved a two-year contract, with a one-year option period, with
Warehouse Direct Office Products to supply and deliver office supplies to the Authority. The
exercise of the option to extend the contract will enable the Authority to continue benefiting
from the cost efficiencies and economics of the 2000 contract. The resolution for Item B1,
accordingly, approves the one-year option period for the contract with Warehouse Direct.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-170
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated November 21, 2002, entitled “Authorization to Extend
the Contract with Warehouse Direct Office Products for Supply and Delivery of
Office Supplies.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to exercise the option to extend
Warehouse Direct Office Products Contract No. 9590 for supply and delivery of
office supplies for the term of January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2003 (the
Contract’s “extension term”) for a sum not-to-exceed $250,000, thereby resulting
in an aggregate Contract amount equal to (i) the amount of funds paid under the
Contract’s original term, plus (ii) a sum not-to-exceed $250,000 under the
Contract’s extension term.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves award of contract to Canon Business Solutions to lease 27
Canon copiers, which includes the supply, delivery, installation and maintenance, under a
cooperative purchasing arrangement with the City of Chicago. The Authority-wide transition

4

 copier to Canon will result in cost savings, increase in internal production as a result of
equipment upgrades and electronic networking that will increase overall efficiency.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-171
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Canon Business
Solutions – Central, Inc. for the leasing of 27 Canon copiers under a Cooperative
Purchasing Arrangement with the City of Chicago and that certain Copier
Equipment Agreement between the City of Chicago and Canon Business
Solutions”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Canon Business Solutions - Central, Inc. to
lease 27 Canon copiers (which includes the supply, delivery, installation and
maintenance of same) under a cooperative purchasing arrangement with the City
of Chicago and that certain Copier Equipment Agreement dated as of March 1,
2001 (Contract No. T0-60038-01-02) between the City of Chicago and Canon
Business Solutions - Central, Inc., at a combined lease and maintenance cost of
$10,742.41 per month for a contract term of 36 months.

(Item B3)
In October 2002, the CHA issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) soliciting qualified firms who
could furnish janitorial services to the CHA administrative properties. Of the ten proposals
received, an evaluation committee selected Total Facility Maintenance, Inc. for their ability to
meet the CHA’s needs at a competitive price. The resolution for Item B3 awards a janitorial
services contract to Total Facility Maintenance, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-172
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 6,
2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Total Facility
Maintenance, Inc. for Janitorial Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Total Facility Maintenance, Inc. pursuant to
the RFP for Janitorial Services for a two year contract term, from January 1, 2003
until December 31, 2004, at a firm fixed price of $1,315,264.58, with a one year
option to extend for $664,983.44, subject to Board and HUD approval.

(Item B4)
In October 2002, the CHA issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) soliciting qualified firms who
could provide security services to seven CHA administrative properties. Of the eight proposals
received, an evaluation committee selected Digby’s Detective & Security Agency due to their
ability to meet the CHA’s needs at a competitive price. The resolution for Item B4 awards a
contract to Digby’s Detective Agency for security services at seven CHA administrative
properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-173
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Digby’s Detective &
Security Agency for Security Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

5

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Digby’s Detective & Security Agency for
Security Services for a firm fixed price of $2,300,341.60 for a two-year contract
term with one option year, subject to HUD approval.

(Item B5)
As part of the Authority’s Plan for Transformation for Family Housing Rehabilitation, the CHA
solicited bids for renovation of Lowden Homes. The scope of work provides for general
renovation of 123 units, 2 CHA offices and other site improvements, including but not limited
to, construction of new parking lots, new roofing systems, masonry work for building
envelopes, rehabilitated kitchens and bathrooms, new floor tile, telephone and cable service,
upgraded mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and the incorporation of ADA compliant
features in apartment units. An IFB was advertised in area newspapers and the Authority
directly solicited 43 firms including 13 M/WBE firms. A review of the nine bids received and
opened, indicated the lowest responsive and responsible bidder as UBM, Inc. UBM’s bid is
within the CHA estimated cost and a review of the current Dunn and Bradstreet report found
UBM to be financially and technically capable of performing the requested scope of services.
The resolution for Item B5, therefore, approves award of contract to UBM.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-174
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 11, 2002
entitled “Authorization to execute contract with UBM Inc., for renovation of
Lowden Homes, IL2-13, 200 W. 95th Street, Specification No. 01156”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with UBM INC. for a firm fixed price of
$10,257,000 for the general renovation of Lowden Homes, IL2-13, 200 W. 95th
Street. The time for completion of work under the contract will be five hundred
and eighty (580) calendar days from the date of the Notice to Proceed.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves and authorizes the assignment of Donation Tax Credits to
the Woodlawn Community Development Corporation, the general partner of South Park Plaza,
LP and execution of a Grant Agreement with the City of Chicago for demolition and
infrastructure work at Prairie Courts Development. South Park Plaza will provide 134
affordable rental opportunities to the near south community of which 25% of the units will be
reserved for public housing eligible families. During the project’s predevelopment stages,
changes and escalating costs created a financial gap in the budget. To bridge this gap and to
close the deal, additional funding sources were sought by South Park Plaza LP which included
Donation Tax Credits and City service contributions. The City services contributions include
the demolition of the remaining ten Prairie Courts buildings and provision of infrastructure
work, within the project site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-175
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 3, 2002
entitled” Request for Approval and Authorization for Assignment of Donation
Tax Credits to the Woodlawn Community Development Corporation and
Execution of a Grant Agreement with the City of Chicago for City Service
Contributions for Demolition and Infrastructure Work at Prairie Courts
Development and concurs with the recommendations contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves and authorize the assignment of
Donation Tax Credits to the Woodlawn Community Development Corporation
and execution of a Grant Agreement with the City of Chicago for City service
contributions for demolition and infrastructure work at the Prairie Courts
Development site. The Board of Commissioners also hereby authorizes the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to revise and execute all documents necessary

6

 for final closing of the South Park Plaza transaction.
(Item B7)
CHA, via the East Lake Management and Development Corporation, is implementing a
redevelopment plan for the Rockwell Gardens in accordance with its 2001 HOPE VI
Revitalization Program. Under the plan, East Lake is targeting to create 780 housing units (of
which 260 units will be designated as replacement public housing units) on-site as well as in the
neighborhood surrounding Rockwell. CHA must submit an application to HUD requesting
approval for the disposition of Rockwell Gardens in order to proceed in its revitalization efforts.
This will allow CHA to convey the land to East Lake under a 99-year land lease. Accordingly,
the resolution for Item B7 approves submission of an application to HUD for the disposition of
the Rockwell Gardens Development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-176
WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 20, 2002,
entitled “Request for Authorization to Submit an Application to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development for the Disposition of the Rockwell Gardens
Development” and concurs with the recommendations contained therein;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit an application to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the disposition of the Rockwell Gardens development. Upon
HUD’s approval of the disposition, CHA intends to enter into a 99-year land lease
with the East Lake Management and Development Corporation.

(Item B8)
The resolution for Item B8 approves a Development Agreement with Brinshore-Michaels for
the development of the Robert Taylor Homes Development Site. The Brinshore-Michaels
Development Team was selected as the result of a Request For Qualification issued by the CHA
and the Habitat Company. The Development Agreement calls for the development of a mixedincome community of approximately 2,388 mixed income rental and affordable homeownership
units on-site and off-site. Because of the sheer magnitude of the proposed plan, the
redevelopment of Taylor has been planned with three implementation phases. Phase A, the
subject of the 2001 Hope VI Grant, includes the development of 894 units of which
approximately 297 will be public housing. CHA will make a financial commitment in the
amount of $33,250,000 for this phase of the on-site redevelopment. Phase B, for which CHA
intends to submit a future HOPE VI application, includes the development of approximately
900 units of which approximately 300 units will be public housing. The off-site portion of
Phase B previously received a 1996 HOPE VI implementation grant to develop 251 public
housing units. Of the 251 units to be built under Phase B, 56 units have been completed to date.
Phase C, which will be funded with the remaining 1996 HOPE VI off-site grant in the amount
of $16,343,043 and a combination of other public and private funds, completes the off-site
component of the master plan. In total, approximately 848 public housing units will be
developed either on or off-site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-177
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 18,
2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Development Agreement with
Brinshore-Michaels (BMT-I, LLC) for the development of the Robert Taylor
Homes development site and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Development Agreement in an amount not to exceed
$49,593,043 with Brinshore-Michaels (BMT-I, LLC) for the mixed finance
development of the Robert Taylor Homes development site, subject to the
approval of HUD. A financial commitment in the amount of $33,250,000 is
allocated to the Phase A on-site development and $16,343,043 is allocated to the
Phase B and C off-site development.

7

 (Item B9)
In September 2001, the Board approved an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Public
Building Commission of Chicago (PBC) for a new Community Center at Fosco Park in ABLA
which included transferring $364,500 in HOPE VI Demolition funds for demolition of two nondwelling structures. The new Community Center is being built on an expanded Fosco Park site,
which will be owned by the Chicago Park District. The land transfer agreement to assemble
that parcel was approved by the Board on November 21, 2000. The land transfer agreement
included a provision that CHA would be responsible for the environmental remediation costs of
the land being contributed to the Park District for the construction of the new center. In October
2002, the CHA learned from the Chicago Department of Environment, that the CHA’s share of
the soil remediation cost could reach up to $1.3 million, with the Park District share reaching up
to $800,000. The requisite environmental remediation work will be completed by the general
contractor selected by the PBC, in accordance with the PBC’s competitive bidding processes
and will utilize CHA standards for MBE/WBE and Section 3. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B9 approves amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement for Fosco Park Community
Center with the Public Building Commission of Chicago.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-178
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 26, 2002
requesting authorization to execute an Amendment to an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Public Building Commission of Chicago for a new
Community Center at Fosco Park in ABLA and concurs with the
recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves and authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to execute an amendment to the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Public Building Commission of Chicago with a new
Community Center at Fosco Park in ABLA which includes transferring up to $1.3
million in CHA Section 8 Demolition Voucher Funding to the Public Building
Commission of Chicago for environmental remediation costs associated with the
construction of the new center.

(Item B10)
In June 2002, the Habitat Company, as Receiver, issued a Request For Proposals for a Master
Developer for the Mixed-Income Redevelopment of the ABLA Homes in conjunction with the
CHA and based on the development guidelines of the ABLA Working Group. The Master
Developer will be responsible for developing at least 2,441 housing units which must include at
least 755 public housing units and 720 affordable housing units. Following an extensive
marketing and outreach effort, two proposals were received in August, 2002. Each of the
proposals met the minimum submission requirements outlined in the RFP and were evaluated in
depth by CHA staff as well as the member organizations of the ABLA Working Group. In
December 2002, the ABLA Working Group agreed that it was unable to reach a consensus
recommendation after nearly three months of evaluation and deliberation. CHA staff
recommends proceeding with the LR Development proposal for the following reasons: LR is an
experienced Chicago-based firm with demonstrated capacity to develop large multi-phase
projects; the diverse team has proven results in similar projects; the development plans include a
mix of traditional building types that are consistent with the street grid, a development schedule
that begins on vacant CHA-owned land to expedite construction and a straightforward financial
plan. The financial plan submitted does not project any financing gaps in Phase I, includes
significant developer equity contribution, requests minimal public subsidies, and provides rental
units at relatively modest cost. In addition, the social service plan includes an experienced
social service provider, a total of 450 temporary and permanent jobs for ABLA residents and a
$4 million endowment for resident services funded from the developer’s fee. The resolution for
Item B10, accordingly, approves staff to enter into negotiations for a Master Developer
Agreement, with LR Development, for the Mixed-income redevelopment of ABLA.

8

 RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-179
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 6, 2002
requesting authorization to enter into negotiations for a Master Developer
Agreement with LR Development for the Mixed-Income Redevelopment of the
ABLA Homes and concurs with the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves and authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to enter into negotiations for a Master Developer
Agreement with LR Development for the Mixed-Income Redevelopment of the
ABLA Homes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B10 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Davis, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented the
following report. Per Commissioner Davis, the Finance & Audit Committee meeting was held
on Wednesday, December 11, 2002 at approximately 2:30 p.m. at the Corporate office, 626 W.
Jackson. Todd Gomez, Chief Financial Officer, and his staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of November 30, 2002.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the approval and adoption of
Resolutions for Items C1 through C5 discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the
Finance and Audit Committee:
(Item C1)
In December 2000, the Board approved Kutak Rock to serve as Issuer’s Counsel and Altheimer
& Gray, Chapman & Cutler, Golden, Goodloe & Associates and Piper, Marbury Rudnick &
Wolfe which may serve as Bond Counsel. Over the past two years Kutak Rock has assisted in
the negotiation and preparation of transaction documents relating to various tax-exempt
financings; clarified various legal matters relating to the Authority’s ability to issue bonds; and
provided legal counsel relating to the Authority’s Capital Revenue and Multi-Family Housing
Bond Programs. Bond Counsel was selected from the above mentioned list to provide advisory
services for the bonds issued under the financing programs. These services included: providing
advice regarding transactions terms and financing structure; drafting and reviewing documents
and providing written opinions with respect to the authorization and issuance of securities.
The resolution for Item C1 approves a one-year contract extension with Kutak Rock to serve as
Issuer’s Counsel and a one-year extension with the four firms which may serve as Bond
Counsel.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-180
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 15, 2002
entitled “Contract Extension for Issuer’s Counsel and Firms Which May Serve as
Bond Counsel”

9

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLEVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves a one-year contract extension with Kutak
Rock to serve as Issuer’s Counsel and a one-year extension of the panel of four
firms which may serve as Bond Counsel; subject to HUD approval:

Vendor

Contract Type

Kutak Rock
Altheimer & Gray
Chapman & Cutler
Golden, Goodloe &
Associates
Piper, Marbury Rudnick &
Wolfe

Issuer’s Counsel
Bond Counsel
Bond Counsel
Bond Counsel

Minority
Participation
25%
20%
20%
100%

Bond Counsel

25%

(Item C2)
The General Assembly of the State of Illinois enacted legislation that permits current and future
employees of the Authority, who have credits under the Municipal Employees’ Annuity and
Benefit Fund of Chicago, to elect to participate in this Fund, provided that if they choose to do
so, they may not, with respect to the same period of employment, participate in any other
pension plan for employees of the CHA for which contributions are made by the CHA. In order
to implement this legislation, it is necessary to amend the Employees Retirement Plan. The
resolution for Item C2, thereby, approves Amendment No. 6 to the CHA Employees Retirement
Plan.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-181
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated November 25, 2002
entitled “Authorization to Amend the Chicago Housing Authority Employees’
Retirement Plan and Trust”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Amendment Six of the Chicago Housing Authority
Employees’ Retirement Plan and Trust in the form and as of the effective dates
indicated in the attached Amendment.

(Item C3)
In December 2000, the Board approved a one-year contract with the Chicago Metropolitan
Housing Development Corporation (CMHDC) whereby CMHDC developed financial models to
finance mixed income developments, entered into agreements with interested parties to provide
housing units for the use of CHA tenants; negotiated and oversaw the acquisition of land for
CHA redevelopment plans and facilitated cooperation among various public entities, developers
and non-profit organization. With Board approval in December 2001, the contract was
extended for an additional one-year term whereby CMHDC would continue to provide previous
services in addition to managing the CHA’s homeownership program. The resolution for Item
C3 approves award of another one-year consulting contract to CMHDC for planning, financial,
development and management services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-182
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 20,
2002, requesting approval of a sole source Consulting Services Contract between
the Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation (“CMHDC”) and
the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) in an amount not-to-exceed $350,000,
effective January 1, 2003 and approval of CMHDC’s calendar year 2003 budget,
and concurs with the recommendations contained therein;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

10

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a sole source Consulting Services Contract, effective
January 1, 2003 with CMHDC for planning, financial, development and
management services in an amount not-to-exceed $3500,000, subject to HUD
approval. The Board of Commissioners further approves CMHDC’s calendar year
2003 budget.

(Item C4)
Since December 1998, the Board has approved and authorized CMHDC’s full time employees’
participation in the CHA’s benefit plan. CMHDC has been responsible during these years for
making payments to the CHA for the employee benefit plan made available to its full-time
employees. The resolution for Item C4, approves extension of CMHDC’s full time employee’s
participation in CHA’s employee benefit plans for FY2003, provided that CMHDC makes the
requisite payments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-183
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated November 20,
2002, entitled “Request for Approval of Extension of Employee Benefits for
Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation (“CMHDC”)” and
concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation’s fulltime employees continued participation in the
CHA's benefit plans made available to the CHA's employees for 2003, provided
that CMHDC makes all requisite payments to the CHA on a timely basis.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves execution of Amendment No. 124 to the Annual
Contributions Contract (ACC), C-1014 for Project Nos. IL06P002211, 14 and 15. The purpose
of Amendment No. 124 is to provide additional funds in the amount of $1,491,834 to Project
No. IL06P002211 under the CHA ACC by transferring such funds from Project No.
IL06P802190 under the ACC C-1150 between Habitat and HUD. This amendment also reflects
8 addition units for Project No. IL06P002211, 27 units for the HOPE VI Hearts United II
Project and 13 units for Orchard Park HOPE VI Project.
RESOLUTION 2002-CHA-184
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 10,
2002 entitled “Recommendation to Execute Amendment No. 124 to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract, C-1014 for Project Nos.
IL06P002211, 14, and 15”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment No. 124 with HUD,
modifying the terms of the Annual Contributions Contract, C-1014 and the Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute
Amendment No. 124 of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 in
quintuplicate and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed
to attest and impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each
such counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment No. 124 shall be substantially in the
attached form.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C5 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone

11

 Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

12

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 