MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
January 17, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
January 17, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at the Maria Diaz Martinez Apartments, 2111 N. Halsted,
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Hallie Amey

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
as we start this new year, he would like to remind everyone that CHA’s basic strategies going
forward have not changed. Priorities on the FY2006 agenda include building good homes for
CHA tenants and moving closer to the goal of 25,000 new or rehabbed units. Mr. Peterson
continued by saying that the Authority is committed in trying to put public housing units into
mixed-income developments and to date there are 34 separate developments under
construction or in design. Mr. Peterson then highlighted items on the agenda that call for the
renewal of partnerships with the Park District and the Board of Education that reflect CHA’s
continuing effort to help residents find work through a variety of public and private
partnerships. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by assuring the public at large that under the
leadership of the Board he was confident that residents will rise to the challenge in doing so,
they will steadily and irreversibly change the image of public housing from what it once was,
as a warehouse for the poor, to what it can be, a platform for struggling families to find their
feet and join the economic and social mainstream of Chicago.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.

1

 The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced for approval the Minutes for the Regular meeting of December 20, 2005. Upon
Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were unanimously approved and accepted as
submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Vice-Chairman. A Motion
was made by Commissioner Ponce and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris to nominate
Commissioner Martin Nesbitt for the position of Vice-Chairman. There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the election of Commissioner Martin Nesbitt as Vice-Chairman of the Chicago Housing
Authority.
The Chair then announced that Commissioner Bridget O’Keefe would replace Commissioner
Nesbitt as the Chairperson of the Finance Committee.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Young then presented a Motion to approve resolutions for Executive Items 1 and
2.
Executive Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-1
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 4, 2006 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for December 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
December 2005.

Executive Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-2
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 29,
2005, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to
which Wausau General Insurance Company will pay the CHA the amount of
$235,000 in the matter Mt. McKinley Insurance Company v. CHA, et al., 04 CH
12868, for a site and claim release from insurance policies provided to the CHA,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement pursuant to which Wausau General Insurance
Company will pay the CHA the amount of $235,000 in exchange for a site and
claim release as part of a settlement of the case of Mt. McKinley Insurance
Company v. CHA, et al., 04 CH 12868.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Nesbitt and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Abstained:

Bridget O’Keefe

Nays:

None

2

 Commissioner O’Keefe abstained from voting on both items.
The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held
on Wednesday, January 11, 2006 at approximately 1:20 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff presented the Committee with the Treasury
and Cash Flow Report as of December 30, 2005.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
A1 through A3, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves a contract extension with Kutak Rock. In January, 2004,
the Authority entered into a contract with Kutak Rock LLP to serve as Issuer’s Counsel for the
next two years, with a one-year extension option. The one-year contract extension will ensure the
continuity of service as Kutak Rock LLP has gained institutional knowledge and has developed
specific knowledge concerning our financing requirements over the past two years. Kutak Rock
is a nationally known law firm, with a significant Chicago presence, that specializes in the area
of housing finance. Kutak Rock has successfully assisted the Authority in the Bond issue for the
financing of the rehabilitation of three of the City State properties as well as in its
groundbreaking 2001 Capital Program Revenue Bond issue. This transaction drew national
attention and serves as a model for other public housing authorities seeking to gain the maximum
benefit from their HUD grants. Kutak has also provided key legal advice in connection with the
Authority’s new construction (HOPE VI) and other bank financing programs. Kutak Rock LLP
is ineligible to serve in the pool for Bond Counsel since they currently serve as the Authority’s
Issuer’s Counsel.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-3
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated January 11, 2006 entitled, “Authorization to extend Contract
No. 0680 with Kutak Rock for Issuer’s Counsel”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 0680 with Kutak Rock
for the period of January 1, 2006 through January 1, 2007 to provide Issuer’s
Counsel.

(Item A2)
In January, 2004, the Board authorized the Authority to establish a pre-qualified pool of bond
counsel for two years with a one-year option. This pool was established in anticipation of
issuing bonds to finance the cost of rehabilitating, redeveloping, demolishing and/or improving
public housing units. The pool consists of firms that have extensive experience providing counsel
on housing finance transactions. The Authority is under no obligation to use the services of any
selected attorney or law firm as Bond Counsel. The current focus of the CHA’s development
plan is on structuring smaller and more frequent mixed-income development transactions. The
Authority anticipates issuing governmental purpose bonds or private activity revenue bonds to
finance a portion of the cost of rehabilitating and/or redeveloping some of the public housing
properties over the next year. These types of transactions require a longer lead time and specific
knowledge of CHA’s development goals. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves the
one-year extension for the pre-qualified pool to ensure that the CHA does not lose the
institutional knowledge concerning its development financing requirements that has been
developed over the past two years.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-4
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated January 11, 2006 entitled, “Authorization to extend pool of
Pre-Qualified Bond Counsel”;

3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the pool of pre-qualified Bond Counsel for the period of
March 1, 2006 through February 28, 2007.
BOND COUNSEL PRE-QUALIFIED POOL
Chapman & Cutler
Hawkins Delafield & Wood
Mayer Brown Rowe & Maw
Golden & Associates*
Holland & Knight
* Denotes an MBE/WBE Firm

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves a contract extension with Fries Frame Production for
continuation of CHA’s Cable Show “A Better Place.” The primary purpose of the cable show is
to inform both CHA residents and the general Chicago public of the work being done under the
Plan for Transformation as well as the programs and services available to residents. Fries Frame
has extensive expertise in the development of cable media communications and in producing
life-quality, city-focused, magazine-style television shows, as well as ethnic media
communication strategies. Fries Frame also has experience producing government municipal
television shows and understands the organizational structure and operations of government
agencies. In addition, the company has the existing film footage, relationships with participants
and stakeholders as well as the necessary technical and communications expertise to continue to
perform effectively in all areas of the show. In Season 4, Fries Frame won two Emmy Awards
for the production of a Better Place. During the next year, Fries Frame will develop and produce
10 shows for a cost not-to-exceed $407,279.20.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-5
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated January 4, 2006 entitled, “Authorization to Extend Contract
No. 5051 with Fries Frame Productions for production of Cable Show “A Better
Place”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 5051 with Fries Frame
Productions for the period of March 1, 2006 through February 28, 2007 to provide
production services for the CHA cable show “A Better Place”.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Abstained:

Bridget O’Keefe

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.

4

 Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, January 11, 2006 at approximately 1:40 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices.
Commissioner Gates, then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for
Items B1 thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations &
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification G-06 with Burling Builders for the
general renovation of Bridgeport Homes. The Contract Modification provides for additional
labor and materials for the following required work: finishing of all interior walls and ceilings;
removal of plastic beading from the doors and existing wire mold, and trenching of conduit into
the new plaster wall; reengineering of the layout of the utility storm drainage system; and repair
of the existing sanitary and storm sewer pipes. This additional work is required to perform
owner-directed changes, and correct discovered conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-6
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 11, 2006
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification Number G-06 to Contract No.
0388 with Burling Builders, Inc. for additional work related to the General
Renovation of Bridgeport Homes (IL2-004)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-06 in the amount of
$295,094.00 to Contract No. 0388 with Burling Builders, Incorporated to
complete the intended scope of the general renovation of Bridgeport Homes
Family development (IL2-004) at 3175 So. Lituanica. The new total contract
amount is $13,497,606.00. This Contract Modification is subject to the
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves Contract Modification G-21 and G22 with Burling Builders
for the general renovation of Langley Apartments and Washington Park Apartments. The
Contract Modification provides for additional labor and materials for the following required
work: repair of plumbing vent system and damaged drain pipes, installation of vinyl composite
tile in laundry rooms, replacement of existing concrete apron and painting of glazed blocks in
washrooms, installation of landscaping, trees, bushes and relocation of existing electrical
conduit. This additional work is required to perform owner-directed changes, comply with local
building codes, and correct discovered conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA -7
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 11, 2006
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification Numbers G-21 and G-22 to
contract No. 0389 with Burling Builders, Inc. for additional work related to the
General Renovation of Langley Apartments and Washington Park Apartments
(IL2-034E)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Numbers G-21 in the amount of
$73,572.78 and G-22 in the amount of $31,557.68 to Contract No. 0389 with
Burling Builders, Incorporated in the combined amount of $105,130.46 to
complete the intended scope of the general renovation of Langley Apartments
(IL2-057) at 4930 So. Langley and Washington Park Apartments (IL2-034E) at
4949 So. Cottage Grove. The new total contract amount is $13,334,360.28. These
Contract Modifications are subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the

5

 CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal and related activities
for the Robert Taylor Homes Phase A-1 Rental On-Site Development project. Phase A-1
represents the first phase of on-site redevelopment within the larger Taylor Homes mixedincome Revitalization Plan and will consist of approximately 181 new construction mixed
income rental units built on CHA-owned land that formerly comprised part of the Robert Taylor
Homes. The development will be located in an area bounded by State Street on the east, 40th
Street on the north, the Metra tracks west of Federal Street on the west and Root Street on the
south. The project is expected to provide 83 rental units of replacement public housing for Taylor
residents, subsidized by the CHA under a 40-year contract to provide operating subsidy. Of the
approximately 181 rental units, it is expected that 151 (including the 83 public housing units)
will be subject to low-income housing tax credit restrictions and reserved for households earning
up to 60% of AMI.
To comply with tax credit, HOME and other financing program
requirements, approximately 46% of the units will be reserved for families with incomes up to
50% of AMI. The remaining 30 units will be market rate and carry no income or rent restrictions.
The CHA land in the Phase A-1 site will be ground leased by one or more ground leases to the
ownership entity (Dearborn Root, LP, or other affiliate(s) of the Brinshore-Michaels
development team). The CHA will also be entering into other agreements to implement the
proposal, which may include but not be limited to, loan documents, a regulatory and operating
agreement, one or more mixed-finance amendments to the Annual Contributions Contract a
declaration of restrictive covenants, instruments necessary or appropriate to clear title, and other
documents. The direct costs of the new Robert Taylor Phase A-1 rental development total
$48,602,883 and are expected to be funded by several sources of permanent financing: including
Chicago Department of Housing, Illinois Housing Development Authority, HOPE VI, Chase
first mortgage; IHDA Trust Fund Loan and an FHLB AHP Grant.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-8
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 5, 2006,
requesting authorization to 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries
and an amended Disposition Application to the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 2) Commit CHA funds up to
$15,000,000.00 to the Robert Taylor Phase A-1 rental on-site redevelopment
project, and 3) Dispose of CHA land at the Phase A-1 site to the ownership
entity(ies) by one or more ground leases, 4) Grant an easement to the City of
Chicago for fire station access, and 5) Execute and deliver such other documents
and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Submit a Mixed-Finance Proposal, Evidentiaries and an amended
Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD),2) Commit CHA funds of up to $15,000,000.00 to the
Robert Taylor Phase A-1 Rental on-site redevelopment project, and 3) Dispose of
CHA land at Phase A-1 site by long-term ground lease(s) to the ownership
entity(ies), 4) Grant an easement to the City of Chicago for fire station access,
and 5) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item B4)
On June 2002, the CHA Board approved a Master Development Agreement with BMH-I, LLC, and
with Brinshore Development, LLC and Michaels Development Co, as sponsors. Pursuant to the
Redevelopment Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site remediation for pre-existing
conditions on the development site (other than costs the Developer would have incurred in any event)
on a phase-by-phase basis, subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility. The resolution for
Item B4 approves award of contract with Powers & Sons Construction Company for remediation
activities at the Robert Taylor Phase A-1 Rental site. The company has the capacity to perform their
own excavation, concrete masonry, and carpentry work. The estimated remediation cost is
6

 $2,546,956.00. CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediation, foreseen and unforeseen
environmental conditions is capped at 225% of this estimated total cost. All of the necessary
environmental reports and studies have been completed and the prerequisite approvals obtained for the
Remediation Action Plan proposed for the development site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-9
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 5, 2006,
requesting authorization to 1) enter into a contract with Powers & Sons Construction
Company, Inc. for environmental remediation activities in connection with BrinshoreMichaels development team’s implementation of the HUD approved Revitalization
Plan at the Robert Taylor Homes redevelopment site Phase A-1 Rental, and 2) Execute
other documents as necessary to implement the forgoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) enter into a contract with Powers & Sons Construction Company,
Inc. for environmental remediation activities at the Robert Taylor Homes Phase
A-1 Rental development site for a total contract amount not to exceed
$5,730,649.00 (225% of the estimated remediation costs), subject to any
necessary HUD approvals. The term of the contract shall be the earlier of: the
receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the IEPA with regard to the OnSite Phase A-1 rental development site, or two years, subject to a one year
extension. 2) Execute other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B4 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Abstained:

Bridget O’Keefe

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented a report
for the Tenant Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday, January 11, 2006 at
approximately 2:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
In January 2005, the Board approved a one year contract with Stateway Associates, LLC, to
provide community and supportive services (CSS) to public housing residents who have chosen
to return to the revitalized Stateway Gardens mixed-income community. Case management
services were specifically designed to address site specific criteria for relocating to the
redevelopment and the barriers a family might face in meeting the criteria and assisting families
in overcoming those barriers. In 2005, Stateway Associates engaged families at Stateway
Gardens in the relocation process through outreach, assessment, and through the creation of
Relocation Plans for families. Stateway Associates has met its contract obligations and CHA’s
management is committed to servicing the public housing residents at Stateway Gardens.
7

 Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves exercising the one year option with Stateway
Associates to continue to provide CSS for those families who relocated during the initial term of
the Contract, provide post-relocation services to families now living in the newly developed units
and to provide CSS to those families relocating in 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-10
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization to exercise the first
one year option of Contract No. 5059 with Stateway Associates, LLC to provide
Community and supportive services for Stateway Gardens”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (1) year option of Contract No. 5059
(“Contract”) with the Stateway Associates, LLC. for community and supportive
services at Stateway Gardens Redevelopment for the period of January 13, 2006
through January 12, 2007, and to increase the Contract’s funding in an amount
not-to-exceed $649,200.00 adding it to whatever balance is left over from the
Contract’s current base term compensation amount. The new total not-to-exceed
contract amount of the Contract will be $1,190,200.00.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves the Intergovernmental Agreement with Chicago Board of
Education for transportation services for children of CHA residents who had relocated to an
attendance area of a different school greater than 1.5 miles from their school of origin and who
wanted to continue attending their School of Origin until the end of the academic year in which
the child/student moved. The CHA and CPS successfully operated this program that served
over one hundred CHA children during part of the 2004-2005 academic school years. Due to
the CHA’s ongoing redevelopment and the relocation of public housing or subsidized housing
families, the CPS transportation program continues to be necessary. Through partnership with
CPS, the CHA avoids the high costs of administering or contracting with a third party for such a
program. All CHA funds are used directly to pay for transportation services. With the
exception of the amount per school year for CTA passes that will be covered by the CHA, CPS
will cover all other administrative expenses. The CHA’s staff and contractors will provide
families with information about the program and make referrals to CPS. Furthermore, the
CHA’s Resident Services staff will verify each child’s residency in a CHA unit.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-11
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 11,
2006, titled “Authorization to Enter Into an Intergovernmental Agreement with
the Chicago Board of Education for Transportation Services”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago Board of
Education for the period of January 1, 2006 through June 30, 2008 in amount not
to exceed $187,500 to implement a transportation program for children of CHA
families relocating under the Plan for Transportation, who have relocated to the
attendance area of a different school greater than 1.5 miles from their school of
origin which they attended prior to relocating (“School of Origin”), to return to
their School of Origin for the balance of the academic school year.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park
District to continue to provide programs and services for CHA youth. During FY2004 and 2005
nearly 7,000 CHA youth have participated in CPD’s Summer Day Camp program. The program
has positively impacted thousands of CHA youth, who otherwise may not have been able to
participate due to cost. It also provides safe, positive and structured activities during the summer
months when the CHA children are most at risk.

8

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-12
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated January 11, 2006, entitled “Authorization to Extend the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park
District for a one year period from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 for an
amount not to exceed $150,000.00 to ensure that CHA residents’ children have
access to recreational programs.

(Item C4)
In December 2002 the Board authorized an IGA with City of Chicago Mayors Office for People
with Disabilities MOPD to expand the availability of CHA housing in the form of accessible
units for persons with disabilities. MOPD conducted architectural accessibility reviews on
drawings for all properties prior to undergoing substantial rehabilitation or redevelopment to
ensure compliance with CHA’s accessibility goals, as well as to meet all local, state and Federal
requirements. However, during that time, accessibility reviews were not conducted on properties
during or after various construction phases which led to costly corrective work in some of the
units and HUD-recorded infractions during an audit of a portion of these units. On December
2004, CHA and MOPD entered into an IGA to provide this service to the CHA. Due to obstacles
encountered by MOPD in obtaining a contract with its subcontractor and the CHA not providing
MOPD with comprehensive construction schedules, limited inspections were conducted in
FY2005 and most of the funds allocated for the IGA were not spent. MOPD has agreed to
satisfy the original terms of the IGA for the extended term at no additional cost to the CHA and
to complete the inspections under the original terms of the IGA. Accordingly, the Resolution for
Item C4 extends the Intergovernmental Agreement for professional service with MOPD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 11, 2006,
entitled “Authorization to Extend the Intergovernmental Agreement for
Professional Service between the City of Chicago Acting through the Mayor’s
Office for People with Disabilities and the Chicago Housing Authority.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”) between the City of
Chicago, acting through the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities
(“MOPD”) and the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) for the period of
December 1, 2005 through November 30, 2006, at no additional cost to the CHA
to allow MOPD to complete the services required during the base term of the
IGA.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C4 was seconded by Commissioner
Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Abstained:

Bridget O’Keefe

Nays:

None

9

 There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

10

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 