June 13, 2012 ITEM NO. B5

AUTHORIZATION TO ESTABLISH A PERSONNEL COMMITTEE AND
DELEGATING CERTAIN AUTHORITY TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER REGARDING PERSONNEL MATTERS

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RE MMENDATI 
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners adopt Resolution Number entitled 
Resolution Establishing a Personnel Committee and Delegating Certain Authority to the Chief
Executive Officer?.

EXPLANATION
Section 6 of the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/6, provides, inter alia, as follows:

The commissioners shall, from time to time, select and appoint a
chief executive of?cer and o?icers and employees, including
engineering, architectural and legal assistants, as they may require
for the performance of their duties, and may prescribe the duties
and compensation of each officer and employee or expressly
delegate that authority to the chief executive officer;

The proposed Resolution, pursuant to Section 6 and various other provisions in the Housing
Authorities Act, delegates certain authority regarding personnel matters to a newly established
Personnel Committee and to the Chief Executive Of?cer. The Board of Commissioners,
however, retains ?nal decision making authority over personnel decisions. Speci?cally, the
Resolution:

0 establishes a three (3) person Personnel Committee comprised of three (3)
members of the Board and with the Chairperson as additional ex-of?cio
member with voting rights but who shall not be counted present for purposes of
establishing a quorum; and delegates to that Committee the authority to: 
review matters pertaining to personnel, oversee the activities of the Chief
Executive Officer and authorized staff regarding personnel matters, and 
issue recommendations approving or disapproving reports issued by the Chief
Executive Of?cer relating to personnel matters.

0 delegates to the Chief Executive Of?cer the authority to: 1) make ?ndings and
recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and removal of of?cers
and employees, and 2) prescribe the duties and compensation of of?cers and
employees.

0 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to delegate to appropriate staff,
investigatory, research or information-gathering ?inctions required for the
Chief Executive Officer to carry out his delegated duties.

provides that the Chief Executive Officer shall submit to the Personnel
Committee in advance of regular Board meetings a report summarizing the
personnel actions taken during the preceding month.

provides that the Chief Executive Of?cer shall submit to the Personnel
Committee in advance of regular Board meetings a report setting forth ?ndings
and recommendations concerning the selection, appointment, and removal of
officers and employees. In the event that the Chief Executive Of?cer
determines that an emergency exists or other exigent circumstances require the
immediate selection, appointment or removal of certain of?cers and
employees, the Chief Executive Of?cer is authorized to take such action as he
deems appropriate, provided notice is furnished to members of the Personnel
Committee and the Board within 48 hours of taking such action. Further, in the
event that the Chief Executive Of?cer determines that good business practices
support the selection, appointment, or removal of certain of?cers and
employees in advance of the regular Board meeting, the Chief Executive
Officer is authorized, with the prior approval of at least two members of the
Personnel Committee, to take such actions. A description of all such actions
must be included in the Chief Executive Of?cer?s regular report of ?ndings
and recommendations.

requires the Personnel Committee to 1) review the reports submitted to it by
the Chief Executive Of?cer, and 2) make its recommendations to the Board at
the next regularly scheduled Board meeting, including the submission of a
resolution for the Board?s consideration approving or disapproving the
Personnel Committee?s recommendations.

requires the Board to take action approving or disapproving all or a portion of
the Personnel Committee resolution.

provides that the Board may revoke in whole or in part any speci?c or implied
delegation to the Chief Executive Of?cer.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-49

A RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING A PERSONNEL COMMITTEE AND DELEGATING
CERTAIN AUTHORITY TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

and

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

and

the Chicago Housing Authority (the ?Authority?) has been created by, and
exists under, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., as amended
(the and

pursuant to the Act, the management and control of the Authority is vested in
ten commissioners (the ?Board?); and

Section 6 of the Act, 310 ILCS 10/6, provides, inter alia, as follows:

The commissioners shall, from time to time, select and appoint
a chief executive officer and officers and employees, including
engineering, architectural and legal assistants, as they may
require for the performance of their duties, and may prescribe
the duties and compensation of each officer and employee or
expressly delegate that authority to the chief executive of?cer;

Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have ?all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions? of the Act, 310 ILCS 10/8; and

Section 8.5 of the Act provides that the Authority has the power to ?make and
?our time to time amend and repeal by-laws, rules and regulations? not
inconsistent with the Act, in order ?to carry into effect the powers and
purposes of the Authority?; and

Section 1 of the By-Laws of the Authority provides, inter alia, that:

The commissioners may by resolution make any delegation of
discretionary powers or ministerial duties, to be exercised in
accordance with the standards, limitations, and controls which
shall be set up in such resolution and which shall not be
inconsistent with the ?Act in Relation to Housing Authorities?
to any committee or committees of one or more chosen from
among their number. Any action taken in the name of the
Authority by a person or persons to whom such powers or
duties have been delegated shall be the action of the Authority
and binding upon it, provided such action is pursuant to and
within the scope of the delegation resolution, and consistent
with ?An Act in Relation to Housing Authorities.?

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

the Board hereby ?nds and determines that it is necessary and in the best
interests of the Authority to establish a Personnel Committee and to delegate
to such committee the authority to 1) review matters pertaining to personnel,
2) oversee the activities of the Chief Executive Of?cer and authorized staff
regarding the personnel matters delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
pursuant to this Resolution, and 3) issue recommendations approving or
disapproving the reports issued by the Chief Executive Of?cer pursuant to the
terms of this Resolution, all subject to ?nal action of the Board as described
herein; and

the Board hereby ?nds and determines that it is in the best interests of the
Authority to delegate to the Chief Executive Of?cer of the Authority, as
permitted by the Housing Authorities Act, the authority to 1) make ?ndings
and recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and removal of
of?cers and employees and 2) prescribe the duties and compensation of
of?cers and employees, subject to the conditions set forth herein:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority, Cook County, Illinois, as follows:

Section 1. Incorporation 9f Recitals. The recitals set forth above are
hereby found to be true and correct and are incorporated in
their entirety as if fully set forth in this Section 1.

Section 2. Establishment of Personnel Committee. There is hereby
established a Personnel Committee which shall be
comprised of three (3) members of the Board (the
?Committee?). The Chairperson shall be ex?of?cio voting
members of the Committee, but shall not be counted present
for purposes of establishing a quorum of the Committee.
The responsibilities of the Committee include reviewing
matters pertaining to personnel; overseeing the activities of
the Chief Executive Of?cer and authorized staff relating to
personnel matters; and issuing recommendations to the
Board approving or disapproving personnel reports issued
by the Chief Executive Of?cer, all as more fully set forth in
this Resolution.

 

Section 3. Powers Delegated to Chief Executive Of?cer. The
Authority hereby authorizes and delegates to the Chief
Executive Officer the power to: 1) make ?ndings and
recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and
removal of officers and employees and 2) prescribe the
duties and compensation of each of?cer and employee of the
Authority. The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise such
authority within the constraints of the approved budget for
the ?scal year in which such delegated action is taken. The
responsibilities of the Chief Executive Of?cer as delegated

a; 

Section 4.

Section 5.

mm

herein shall be implemented in a manner that promotes the
ef?cient disposition of all matters within the jurisdiction of
the Authority and is consistent with the requirements of
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and
regulations.

Delegation by CEO. The Chief Executive Officer may, as
he or she deems appropriate, delegate to appropriate staff
the investigatory, research or information-gathering
requirements of the Chief Executive Of?cer?s delegated
responsibilities as described herein. Any person carrying
out these delegated activities shall not have the authority to
make any decisions regarding the selection, appointment,
removal, duties or compensation of any of?cers or
employees of the Authority.

Pmnnel Act_ion The Chief Executive Of?cer
shall submit to the Committee for its review and approval in
advance of regular Board meetings a report summarizing the
personnel actions taken during the preceding month
(?Personnel Action Report? or The PAR shall be
in substantially the form attached hereto and shall include
but need not be limited to the following information:
number of active employees at the beginning and end of
each month; inactive employees; full-time employees; part-
time employees; new hires, recalls and re-hires; deceased
employees; laid off employees; resignations; retirements;
terminations; corrections; laterals; demotions;
promotions/position change; merit pay/equity/negotiated
wages; reclassi?cations and reorganizations; leave of
absence; return from leave of absence; leave with pay; leave
without pay; return to previous position; salary/equity
adjustments; status changes; temporary acting employee;
transfers; total separations; workmen?s compensation; and
payouts or contracts including collective bargaining.

Chief Executive Of?cer?s Report of Findi?s a_ng

Recommendations regarding Selectior_r, Appgintment, and
Removal of Of?cers and Employees.

The Chief Executive Of?cer shall submit to the Committee
for its review and approval in advance of regular Board
meetings a report setting forth ?ndings and
recommendations concerning the selection, appointment and
removal of of?cers and employees (?Report of Findings
and Recommendations?). The Report of Findings and
Recommendations shall include, without limitation, a

b)

Section 7.

statement of the purpose of and necessity for the
recommended action(s).

In the event the Chief Executive Of?cer determines that an
emergency exists and that the public health, safety, welfare,
or other exigent circumstances require the immediate
selection, appointment or removal of certain of?cers and
employees, the Chief Executive Of?cer is hereby authorized
to take such action as he deems appropriate, provided that
the Chief Executive Of?cer: 1) furnish notice to the
members of the Committee and the Board within 48 hours
of taking such action, which notice shall describe the action
and the circumstances warranting such action, and 2)
include a description of such action in the Report of
Findings and Recommendations.

In the event that the Chief Executive Officer determines
that, in the absence of conditions described in Section 5(b)
hereof, good business practices or other appropriate
circumstances exist that support the selection, appointment,
or removal of certain of?cers and employees in advance of
the regular Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer is
authorized, with the prior approval of at least two of the
three Committee members, to take such actions as approved
by said Committee members. A description of such action
shall be included in the Report of Findings and
Recommendations.

Committee Review and Recommendations and Board

Approval.
The Committee shall review the PAR and Report of

Findings and Recommendations submitted to the Committee
by the Chief Executive Officer. The Committee shall make
its recommendations to the Board at the next regularly
scheduled Board meeting and submit a resolution for the
approval or disapproval of all or any portion of the PAR and
Report of Findings and Recommendations. If the
Committee disapproves all or any portion of the PAR or
Report of Findings and Recommendations. the Committee?s
recommendation to the Board shall inform the Board of the
reasons for its disapproval. The PAR, the Report of
Findings and Recommendations, and the resolution of the
Committee are collectively referred to as the ?Committee
Resolution?.

The Committee Resolution shall be included on the agenda
of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board (or on
the agenda of a special meeting called for such purpose by

ML

Section 9.

Section 10.

the Chairperson). The Board shall at such meeting take
action approving or disapproving all or a portion of the
Committee Resolution.

Revocation of authority. The Board may revoke in whole or
in part any speci?c or implied delegation to the Chief
Executive Of?cer.

Seve ili . In the event that any provision, clause,
sentence, section or other part of this Resolution is held to
be invalid, unconstitutional, void or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this Resolution shall remain in full
force and effect, it being the intent of the Board in adopting
this Resolution that no portion hereof or provision contained
herein shall become inoperative or fail by reason of
unconstitutionality or invalidity of any other portion or
provision.

Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and
effect after its passage as provided by law, and any other
resolutions or parts thereof in con?ict herewith are hereby
repealed to the extent of such. con?ict.

lliml??l

 
  

 
  

 

Boardioi?h missinnen

 

