February 15, 2012 ITEM NO. B3

AUTHORIZATION TO: 1) ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH DAVIS LAKEFRONT LLC FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION AND EXTRAORDINARY SITE WORK ACTIVITIES AT THE
LAKEFRONT PHASE II RENTAL DEVELOPMENT AND 2) EXECUTE OTHER DOCUNIENTS
AS NECESSARY TO IMPLENIENT THE FOREGOING

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

mm

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to enter
into a contract for environmental remediation and extraordinary site work activities (Remediation and Site Work
Agreement?) with Davis Lakefront LLC (the ?Developer?) for a total contract amount not to exceed $5,750,318
which represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development Site
the amount necessary for the required extraordinary site work plus a contingency of
15% ($393,681) of the extraordinary site work cost; all of which are needed to address build ability and site safety
concerns at this development site. The term of the Remediation and Site Work Agreement shall commence at
closing and expire the earlier of receipt of a ?No Further Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to a one (1) year extension at election.

FUNDING
Not to exceed $5,750,318 of General and/or Other Funds
Vendor: Davis Lakefront LLC
Contract Type: Environmental Remediation and Extraordinary Site Work
Contract Amount: $5,750,318 ($2,732,095 represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost and

$3,018,223 for the extraordinary site work including a 15% contingency)

Contract Period: From closing throughout receipt of ?No Further Remediation? letter, or two (2) years
subject to a one (1) year extension at election

Participation:
Compliance af?davit on ?le

Section 3:
Compliance af?davit on ?le

EXPLANATION
In December, 2006, Davis Lakefront LLC was selected as the developer for the Lakefront Phase II Rental
Development site in response to a Request for Proposals (RFP) issued by The Habitat Company, LLC (?Habitat?),
in its role at the time as Receiver for development of new non-elderly public housing, and the Chicago
Housing Authority. Pursuant to a Master Development Agreement (MDA) between CHA, Habitat and the
Developer dated December 1, 2008, it was agreed that CHA would fund the cost of site remediation for pro-existing
environmental conditions on the entire rental development site, other than the costs the Developer would have
incurred in any event, subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility.

As part of the construction preparation for the Lakefront Phase 11 Rental development, a number of environmental
investigation studies were completed for the CHA-owned land. These studies have identi?ed certain
environmental contaminants on the site that can be effectively remediated with an ?engineered barrier? approach.

This approach is the preferred method because it is the least costly and is also acceptable to the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. Under the engineered barrier approach to remediation, the top 3 feet of soil will
be removed and disposed of as ?special waste? at an approved licensed special waste land?ll, and replaced by the
equivalent quantity of clean soil in all proposed landscaped areas. The soil removed for the excavation of the
foundations will be disposed of as special waste. The balance of the site will be capped by impermeable surfaces
building structures, parking lots, streets, sidewalks, etc.). This is the approach that was used on the ?rst two
phases of construction at the Lake Park Crescent Phase 1 Rental and Phase I For?Sale developments which are
interspersed within the proposed Lakefront Phase 11 Rental development. Both the Lake Park Crescent and the
proposed Lakefront Phase II development sites are comprised of CHA land formerly known as the Lake Michigan
Homes Development.

The estimated remediation cost for the Lakefront Phase Rental site is $1,366,047 and contractual
responsibility, pursuant to the MDA, for remediating foreseen and unforeseen environmental conditions is capped
at 200% of the estimated total remediation cost and equals $2,732,095. Since the beginning of the Plan for
Transformation, a cap of of the calculated remediation estimate was exhaustively negotiated and
included in Developer Additionally the overall actual remediation costs expended to date have been less
than the sum of the estimated remediation costs.

In addition to the remediation that is often required in developing property in established urban environments, the
Lakefront Phase 11 (?Phase 11?) site has a number of site preparation challenges not present at other CHA
development locations that is being referenced herein as ?extraordinary site work?. The most notable is soil above
the level of the streets known as a crown. In many areas of the Phase II site, the crown is three (3) to five (5) feet
above the level of the street. This will require additional excavation work estimated at $1,642,053 to remove and
properly dispose of the excess soil. Also, to allay safety concerns, an existing chain link fence separating the CHA
property from the Metra tracks near the development site is being extended at a cost of $24,510. Lastly, certain
other site work features of the undeveloped portions of the site are being completed to facilitate the overall site
development and work necessary for the current construction phase at a cost of $957,979. These provisions include:

I Overall site utility excavation and necessary installation,

0 Sidewalks and pavers, with associated excavation and back ?ll costs to provide site accessibility and
walkability,

0 Site fencing and associated landscaping to ensure site security.

All of the foregoing extraordinary site work totals $3,018,223 and is inclusive of a 15% contingency. The
contingency will only be used as necessary.

The required participation commitment is 40% or $2,300,127 of the estimated total cost of $5,750,318.
Additionally, the contractor has made a commitment to hire two (2) Section 3 individuals, likely as laborers.

Based on the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to enter into a Remediation and Site Work Agreement with
Davis Lakefront LLC, for environmental remediation and extraordinary site work activities to be performed on
CHA-owned land at the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development, in an amount not to exceed $5,750,318.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-11

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 15, 2012 requesting
authorization to enter into a contract for environmental remediation and extraordinary site work
activities with Davis Lakefront LLC, the Developer, for a total contract amount not to exceed
$5,750,318 (which represents 200% of the estimated remediation amount, and extraordinary site
work costs including a 15% contingency) for the Lakefront Phase 11 Rental Development Site. The
term of the Remediation and Site Work Agreement shall commence at closing and expire the
earlier of receipt of a ?No Further Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years, subject to a one (1) year extension at election.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to enter into a
Remediation and Site Work Agreement with Davis Lakefront LLC, the developer, for
environmental remediation and extraordinary site work activities at the Lakefront Phase 11 Rental
development site, for a total contract amount not to exceed $5,750,318 (which represents 200% of
the estimated remediation cost for the Lakefront Phase II Rental Development site, the additional
extraordinary site work, and a 15% contingency). The term of the Remediation and Site Work
Agreement shall commence at closing and expire the earlier of receipt of a ?No Further
Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2) years,
subject to a one (1) year extension at election. The contingency will only be used as
necessary

II)

     
 

-

  

 

 

Board 01 Commissioners

