MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 21, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
October 21, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at the Madden Park Fieldhouse, 3800 South Rhodes, Chicago,
Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

Mamie Bone

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson
commenced his presentation by stressing the importance of this particular Board meeting since
the Commissioners were going to consider and vote on Year 5 of the Plan for Transformation.
According to Mr. Peterson, construction will be underway on at least eight mixed-income sites in
FY2004. As always, per Mr. Peterson, the Plan recognizes that building units alone will not
significantly change the lives of CHA residents unless they can also find meaningful and
rewarding jobs that help them become self-sufficient. With that in mind, the CHA will launch a
more flexible system of delivering social services that can be customized to meet the unique
individual needs of each household and estimates spending over $20million to dramatically
increase the service connectors program. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by thanking the
resident leadership, community stakeholders, and staff for their hard work and input on the Plan.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Meeting held on August 19, 2003
and September 16, 2003. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes for August 19,
2003 and September 16, 2003 were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.

1

 Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion for the ratification of acceptance of Resolution
2003-CHA-152 for two Hope VI Grants in the total amount of $9million approved at the
Emergency Teleconference Meeting of September 18, 2003.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-152
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September
18, 2003, entitled, “Authorization to Execute two (2) FY 2002 HOPE VI
Demolition Grant Agreements.” and concurs with the recommendations contained
therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to sign two (2) FY 2002 HOPE VI Demolition Grant Agreements for
Cabrini Extension South and Green Homes, in the total amount of $9,000,000

Motion to adopt said resolution was seconded by Commissioner Healey and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lorie Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
A Motion to approve Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was presented by Commissioner Ivers.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-153
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 1, 2003, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for September 2003.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
September 2003.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-154
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September
30, 2003 requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the
matter of Daniel Casey vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 98 WC 64703, in an
amount not to exceed $150,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or the
General Counsel to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of Daniel
Casey vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 98 WC 64703, for an amount not to
exceed $150,000.

2

 (Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION 2003-CHA-155
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 3, 2003,
entitled “Authorization for Contract Award for Legal Services”, and subject to an
annual appropriation to the Office of the General Counsel and Risk Management
Department for payment of fees for legal services;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes execution of legal services agreements
with the law firms for the legal practice areas listed below in an amount not to
exceed the annual appropriated budget for the Office of the General Counsel and
Risk Management. All contracts shall be in effect for a period ending July 17,
2004 or until legal services are completed, with a one (1) year option to extend:

Group A General Litigation
MBE/WBE
Burke, Burns & Pinelli
*
Clausen Miller
Conklin, Murphy, Conklin & Snyder
Gardner, Carton and Douglas
Gessler Hughes, Socol, Piers Resnick & Dym
Stanley L. Hill & Associates – Joint Venture
Goldberg, Kohn, Bell, Black, Rosenbloom & Moritz
Neal, Murdock & Leroy
*
Piper Rudnick
Pugh, Jones & Johnson
*
Schuyler, Roche & Zwirner
Segal, McCambridge, Siner & Mahoney
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal
Wildman, Harrold, Allen & Dixon
Winston & Strawn
Group B Personal Injury Litigation
Buford Law Office
Conklin, Murphy, Conklin & Snyder
Pugh, Jones & Johnson
Schuyler, Roche & Zwirner

*
*

Group C Forcible Entry Litigation
Davis & Kendall
Sanford Kahn
Swain and Moore

*
*

Group D Workers' Compensation
Nyhan, Pfister, Bambrick, Kinzie & Lowry
Group E Contract, Real Estate
Acosta, Kruse, Raines & Zemenides
Barack, Ferrazzano, Kirschbaum, Perlman & Nagelberg
Burke Burns & Pinelli
Conklin, Murphy, Conklin & Snyder
Gardner, Carton and Douglas
Goldberg, Kohn, Bell, Black, Rosebloom & Moritz
Gordon & Glickson
Neal, Murdock and Leroy
Piper Rudnick
Pugh, Jones & Johnson
Quarles & Brady
Schuyler, Roche & Zwirner
Swain and Moore
Winston & Strawn
Group F Labor Negotiation
3

*

*
*
*

 Burke, Burns & Pinelli
Franczek Sullivan
Gardner, Carton and Douglas
Holland & Knight
Neal, Murdock and Leroy
Pugh, Jones & Johnson
Quarles & Brady
Schuyler, Roche & Zwirner
Winston & Strawn

*

*
*

Group G Ethics Counseling
Gardner, Carton and Douglas
Jenner & Block
Quarles & Brady
The Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
(General Item – No. 1)
On January 6, 2000, the Board of Commissioners of the CHA approved the Agency’s Plan for
Transformation, calling for sweeping changes in the administration and operation of the CHA.
The Plan for Transformation was approved by HUD and incorporated into the Moving To Work
Agreement (MTW), executed on February 6, 2000. The agreement was subsequently amended
in February 2001, requiring CHA to produce and submit an MTW Annual Plan to HUD no less
than 60 days prior to the start of CHA’s fiscal year. The resolution for General Item 1 approves
the Agency's MTW Annual Plan for FY2004. The Plan-Year 5 marks a continuation of the
original Plan and does not contain any significant deviations. Rather, it details the steps
necessary to achieve the original Plan’s stated goals. In order to ensure community and resident
input, the CHA held a public comment period from September 15th to October 14th, 2003 and a
public hearing was held on September 30, 2003. All comments received during the public
hearing session were considered.
Commissioner Gates then introduced a Motion for the approval of the resolution for General
Item No. 1.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-156
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated September 19,
2003 requesting approval of the CHA, Moving to Work Annual Plan for
Transformation FY2004 – Year 5" and that the Board of Commissioners
Chairperson sign the "PHA Certifications of Compliance with MTW Plan
Requirements and Related Regulations", attached hereto
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached CHA Plan-Year 5 and the
"PHA Certifications of Compliance with MTW Plan Requirements and Related
Regulations", and grant authorization to submit it to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

4

 The Motion to adopt the resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Healey
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, October 15, 2003, at:1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
Meghan Harte, Managing Director of Resident Services, presented the Committee with an update
on Tenant Services activities.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 and A3 through A8 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the
Tenant Services Committee.
(Item A1)
Pursuant to the Plan for Transformation, social services previously performed by CHA staff were
outsourced to the City Department of Human Services (CDHS). The CHA’s goal is to continue
mainstreaming and integrating public housing residents into the citywide services network
administered by CDHS, which consists of private and public sectors, including state and
federally funded service providers. The resolution for Item A1 approves an Intergovernmental
Agreement with CDHS to continue to provide these services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-157
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 26,
2003, requesting “Authorization to Enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Chicago Department of Human Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners Authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago
acting through it Department of human Services for linking the CHA families to
city-wide services, including private and public sectors, state and federally funded
service providers for the term of January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004 in an
amount not-to-exceed $13,600,000.00.

(Item A2 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)
(Item A3)
In December 2002 the CHA Commissioners authorized the Chief Executive Officer to enter into
a Development Agreement with Brinshore-Michaels, the development team selected for the
Robert Taylor redevelopment project, and BMT-I, LLC, the development entity. Interstate
Realty Management Corporation (IRM), which is expected to be the Property Manager for the
redeveloped site, is an affiliate of Michaels Development Company, Inc., which, along with
Brinshore Development LLC, is responsible for the overall redevelopment process. The
development team is responsible for preparing funding applications, obtaining financing,
construction, and the coordination of community and supportive services. The resolution for Item
A3 approves contract with Brinshore Michaels or with its designee IRM, to provide community
and supportive services to the Robert Taylor development. The primary focus of the CSS
Agreement will be to assist CHA families that have chosen to return to the Robert Taylor mixed
income community. Case management services will be specifically designed to address site
specific criteria and the barriers a family may face in meeting the criteria and thus returning to
the Taylor community. As admission to the new Robert Taylor community generally requires
that each household satisfy a work requirement, employment services will be at the center of the
community & supportive services plan.
: 1004190020140
5

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-158
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 6, 2003, entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter
into a contract with Brinshore-Michaels and/or BMT-I, LLC, the Master
Developer for the Robert Taylor Homes (“Brinshore”) or with Brinshore and/or
its designee Interstate Realty Management Corporation to provide community &
supportive services to the Robert Taylor Community”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend an eighteen month contract with Housing Choices Partners
of Illinois to provide relocation counseling services to increase the amount of
the Contract by $147,000, increasing the total contract amount from $122,400 to
$147,000.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves a modification to the contract with Housing Choice
Partners. The Contract with Housing Choice Partners for the provision of relocation counseling
services for a not-to-exceed amount of $122,400 went into effect March 28, 2003 to provide
relocation services to families who chose Section 8 from the Wentworth Gardens Development.
At the time the Contract was entered into, it was anticipated that out of the 180 families at
Wentworth Gardens who chose Section 8, approximately 68 would choose opportunity
counseling for their placement services. However, since the commencement of the term of the
Contract, 150 families have chosen opportunity counseling. The requested additional funding
will allow Housing Choice Partners to provide adequate services to the increased number of
families from Wentworth Garden who are interested in moving to an opportunity neighborhood.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-159
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated September 29, 2003 entitled “Recommendation to approve a
modification to the contract with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois for
relocation counseling services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend an eighteen month contract with Housing Choices Partners of
Illinois to provide relocation counseling services to increase the amount of and the
contract by $147,000, increasing the total contract amount from $122,400 to
$147,000.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves the form of lease and admissions and occupancy policy for
the Robert Taylor Homes Phase C-1 development. It is understood that the developer/owner
entity has an interest and desire to implement its own lease forms and policy that encourages
consistent community standards and for the effective management of its mixed income
developments. The lease and policy have to accommodate various aspects of the multiple types
of tenants and characteristics of a mixed finance transaction. The authorization of approval of the
form of lease and admissions and occupancy policy for the new Robert Taylor Homes Phase C-1
development is required at this time to facilitate the closing of this development transaction.
Both documents have been subject to extensive negotiation among the CHA, the Developer, the
Working Group and the Local Advisory Committee and the documents are recommended as
acceptable. Notice for the public comment period has been given in accordance with applicable
requirements and consideration will be given to any comments in finalizing the documents with
the Developer and the owner entity.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-160
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 29,
2003, entitled “Authorization for approval of the Admission and Occupancy
Policy and Form of Lease for the Robert Taylor Homes Phase C-1 Development
and to amend the CHA Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate such
document as an addendum thereto;”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
6

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached admissions and
occupancy policy and form of lease in substantially the form presented to the
Board for the new Robert Taylor Homes Phase C-1 development (a new name for
this development is to be determined) and hereby approves an amendment to the
Chicago Housing Authority’s Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate the
approved forms as an addenda. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief
Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms,
including changes based on HUD requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting
from any applicable notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute
conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves amendment to the CHA Residential Lease Agreement and
Contract to ensure that the language conforms to Federal and State law; the amended Admissions
and Continued Occupancy Policy and amended Pet Policy.
In September 2003, CHA
representatives met with the Central Advisory Council Executive Board and the Council at large
and their legal representative in consecutive meetings to review the proposed changes to the draft
Lease. During the meetings, CHA staff and CAC members reviewed the proposed changes. A
public comment period for the draft Lease was held from September 15, 2003 – October 14,
2003 and copies of the draft Lease were made available at various CHA sites, the Chicago
Public Libraries, and the CHA website. All comments received as a result of the public
comment period will be considered.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-161
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 29,
2003, entitled “Authorization for approval to amend the CHA Residential Lease
Agreement and Contract”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the amendment to the CHA
Residential Lease Agreement and Contract and authorizes the Board Chairperson
or Chief Executive Officer or his designee to approve any final changes to, and to
amend the CHA Residential Lease Agreement and Contract.

THAT,

this CHA Residential Lease Agreement and Contract replaces any and all
previously board approved CHA Residential Lease Agreements and Contracts
(#2000-CHA-134, August 15, 2000).

THAT,

this CHA Residential Lease Agreement and Contract supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in existing CHA policies and procedures including the
CHA Admissions and Occupancy Policy and Pet Policy.

(Item A7)
The resolution for Item A7 approves an amendment to the Admissions and Occupancy Policy
(A&O) to ensure that the language conforms to Federal and State law; includes policy changes;
and also includes changing the name of the policy to Admissions and Continued Occupancy
Policy (ACOP). In September 2003, CHA representatives met with the Central Advisory
Council Executive Board and the Council at large and their legal representative in consecutive
meetings to review the proposed changes to the draft ACOP. During the meetings, CHA staff
and CAC members thoroughly reviewed the proposed changes. The public comment period for
the draft ACOP was September 15, 2003 – October 14, 2003. Copies of the draft ACOP were
made available at the CAC office, the LAC Offices, property management offices, occupancy
department, Latino Site Offices, CHA Administrative Offices located at 626 West Jackson, MAP
Office, 600 West Jackson, Operations, the Chicago Public Libraries, and the CHA website. All
comments received during the public comment period will be considered.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-162
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 29,
2003, entitled “Authorization for approval to amend the Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the amendment to the Admissions
and Occupancy Policy and authorizes the Board Chairperson or Chief Executive
7

 Officer or his designee to approve any final changes to the Admissions and
Occupancy Policy and to amend the Admissions and Occupancy Policy.
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the name change of the Admissions
and Occupancy Policy to the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy.

THAT,

this Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy replaces any and all previously
board approved Admissions and Occupancy Policies (#2000-CHA-190,
November 28, 2000).

THAT,

this amendment to the Admissions and Continued Occupancy policy supersedes
any and all conflicting language found in existing CHA policies and procedures
including the CHA Residential Lease Agreement and Contract; and Pet Policy.

THAT,

this amendment to the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy includes the
following:
• The addition of a policy on reasonable accommodations for persons with
disabilities;
• The addition of an affirmative marketing policy;
• Clarification of admissions preferences;
• Changes to applicant screening requirements;
• Changes to occupancy guidelines to ensure that there are sufficient large units
to meet
relocation needs;
• Revision to order of unit offers to bring policy into compliance with current
transfer policy;
• Revision to amount of time given applicants to consider unit offers, making it
consistent with that provided to relocating families;
• Addition of a policy on employee-occupied apartments;
• New requirements for reexamination of residents claiming zero income;
• Addition of an Earned Income Disallowance policy;
• Change to utility reimbursement policy under which reimbursements are paid
to utility companies on residents’ behalf, rather than to residents;
• Addition of “flat rent” and choice between income-based and flat rent;
• Establishment of a $25 minimum rent;
• Addition of an economic independence policy that requires non-exempt adults
to contribute 40 hours per month of either neighborhood service or economic
self sufficiency activity. Exempt adults include those who are age 62 or older,
disabled and unable to work, full-time caretakers of persons with disabilities,
people working at least 30 hours per week, full-time students, and people who
are under 62 but retired and receiving a pension.

(Item A8)
The resolution for Item A8 approves amendment to the Pet Policy and ensures that the language
conforms to Federal and State law; the amended Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy;
and amended Residential Lease Agreement and Contract. Similar to Items A7 & A8 meetings
and public commentary period were held with resident leadership and the public to review the
proposed changes to the Pet Policy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-163
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 29,
2003, entitled “Authorization for approval to amend the Pet Policy”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,
the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the amendment to the Pet Policy
and authorizes the Board Chairperson or the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve any final changes to, and to amend the Pet Policy.
THAT,

this Pet Policy replaces any and all previously board approved Pet Policies
(#2000-CHA-136, August 15, 2000).

THAT,

this Pet Policy supersedes any and all conflicting language found in existing CHA
policies and procedures including the CHA Admissions and Occupancy Policy
and CHA Residential Lease Agreement and Contract.

8

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt the resolutions for Item A1 and A3 thru A8 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Earnest Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations Committee met on Wednesday,
October 15, 2003. No reports were scheduled to come before Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B9, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
and Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves amendment of contracts with d’Escoto, Inc and Millennium
for the provision of Owner’s Representative(OR) services to the CHA. The OR will provide
additional services to oversee and manage the renovation of a total of nine senior buildings to
which another owner’s representative had been previously assigned. The CHA and the previous
owner’s representative were unable to agree on an extension of the existing contract.
Accordingly, a Request for Proposals was prepared for distribution among the eight (8) owner’s
representative firms currently under contract with the CHA. The limited competition among the
eight firms provided the CHA to quickly identify replacements for the departing owner’s
representative firm, while balancing the CHA’s procurement policy, which requires procurement
by competitive methods. Based on the evaluation committee’s assessment of the firms’
proposals, Millennium 3 and d’Escoto, Inc. were selected. The value of the Millennium 3
contract modification will be $137,200. The value of the d’Escoto, Inc. contract modification
will be $288,408. The combined value of the contract modifications will be $425,608.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-164
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 17,
2003, entitled, “Authorization to amend the contracts with Millennium 3 and
D’Escoto, Inc. for the provision of Owner’s Representative services in the Capital
Improvement Program.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend the contracts with Millennium 3 and D’Escoto, Inc. for the
provision of owner’s representative services in the Capital Improvement Program
in a total amount for the two (2) contracts of $425,608.00.

(Item B2)
Pacific Construction currently provides owner’s representative services to the CHA and has
demonstrated its ability to provide cost-effective and conscientious owner’s representative
services under Contract No. 9884. Accordingly, the CHA requested a proposal from Pacific
Construction for the provision of additional owner’s representative services for the renovation of
the common areas in the Generation IIa and Generation IIb senior buildings. The proposal
submitted by Pacific Construction demonstrates its capacity to take on additional projects and to
complete this work effectively and the cost contained in its proposal is reasonable in light of
prevailing industry standards. Furthermore, an amendment to the company’s existing Contract
No. 9884 provides the CHA the ability to immediately fill its need for additional owner’s
representative services for the common area renovation. The resolution for Item B2 thereby
9

 approves an amendment to Pacific Construction existing contract for additional owners
representative services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-165
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 18, 2003
Entitled “Recommendation to amend Contract No. 9884 with Pacific Construction
Services, Inc. for Owner’s Representative services for the renovation of common
areas in Senior Buildings”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract amendment with Pacific Construction Services in
an amount not to exceed $150,697 for the provision of additional owner’s
representative services for the general renovation of the common areas in the
Generation IIa and Generation IIb senior buildings, as part of the Capital
Improvement Program. The time for completion of this additional work under
Contract No. 9884 will be two hundred ten (210) calendar days from the date of
the Notice to Proceed.

(Item B3)
The Authority advertised an Invitation for Bid (IFB) on August 18, 2003 for rehabilitation work
at the Kenneth E. Campbell Apartments, 6360 S. Minerva Avenue. The scope of work includes
refurbishing of parking lots, rehabilitated kitchens and bathrooms, new floor tiles, refrigerators,
ranges/ovens and repairs of damaged walls and ceilings. The IFB was advertised in area
newspapers and CHA directly solicited fifty-four firms including twenty-two MBE/WBE firms.
Based on the review of the bids, F.H. Paschen/S.N. Nielsen was deemed to be the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder. Accordingly, the resolution for item B3 approves award of
contract to F.H. Paschen/S.N. Nielsen.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-166
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 23, 2003
Entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with F. H. Paschen/ S. N. Nielsen
& Associates for Senior Housing Rehabilitation at the Kenneth E. Campbell
Apartments (IL2-52)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Contract with F. H. Paschen/S. N. Nielsen & Associates in
the amount of $7,287,000.00, for the senior housing rehabilitation at Kenneth E.
Campbell Apartments (IL2-52) – 6360 S. Minerva Avenue. The time for
completion of work under the contract will be three hundred sixty five (365)
calendar days from the Notice to Proceed.

(Item B4)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid, for roof and window replacements for 300 apartment
units at Lake Parc Place, in area newspapers and also directly solicited twenty-nine firms
including eleven MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Upon review of the three (3) bids received and
clarification thereof, Schoenbeck Corporation was determined to be the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder with an amount of $2,174,000. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4
awards contract to Schoenbeck Corporation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-167
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 2, 2003
Entitled “Authorization to execute contract with Schoenbeck Corporation for
window and roof replacement at Lake Parc Place, 3939 & 3983 S. Lake Park
Avenue (IL2-026)”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a firm fixed-price contract with Schoenbeck Corporation in
the amount of $2,174,000 for window and roof replacement at Lake Parc Place,
3939 & 3983 S. Lake Park Avenue (IL2-026)
10

 (Item B5)
The CHA advertised Request for Proposal No. 01226 (“RFP”) in August 2003, in area
newspapers, to competitively solicit qualified firms and/or individuals to provide construction
management services for needed renovations of 916 and 1000 S. Wabash Ave. The CHA also
directly solicited 69 firms, including 21 MBE/WBE firms.
Of the thirteen respondents
submitted and evaluated, three Respondents were found to be in the competitive range and were
requested to submit best and final offers. Based on the evaluation of the committee, Boyle and
Associates, Ltd. has been selected to provide the required construction management services
based upon its competitiveness, its overall experience in construction management, and the
highest rating given by the evaluation committee. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5
approves award of contract to Boyle & Associates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-168
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated October 7, 2003 titled “Authorization to enter into a Contract
with Boyle and Associates, Ltd. for Construction Management Services (RFP No.
01226)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Boyle and Associates, Ltd. for construction
management services for the term of all pre-construction and construction
activities at 916 and 1000 S. Wabash for an amount not-to-exceed $121,500.00

(Item B6)
In July 2003, McCormack Baron, Property Manager of Dearborn Homes, advertised IFB No.
DB00027 to remove the existing trash chutes and to install 16 new trash chutes and 16 new
compactors at the Dearborn Homes Development. The original linings of the garbage chutes in
the buildings were found to be badly deteriorated, thus causing raw garbage to overflow into the
basements which attracted and increased the rodent population. The IFB was advertised in area
newspapers and a Pre-Bid Conference was held on July 8, 2003. Three (3) addendums were
issued to clarify the scope of work. On August 13, 2003, four bids were received and opened at
11:00 a.m. Upon review of the bids, one was deemed non-responsive for failure to submit a bid
bond. Blinderman Construction Co., Inc. was determined to be the lowest responsive,
responsible bidder with an amount of $1,451,000.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B8
approves award of contract to Blinderman Construction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-169
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated October 3,
2003, entitled, “Approval to enter into a fixed fee contract with Blinderman
Construction Co., Inc. to remove existing trash chutes and install sixteen (16) new
trash chutes and 16 new compactors at Dearborn Homes Development”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby gives approval for McCormack Barron
Management Services, Inc. to enter into a fixed fee contract with Blinderman
Construction Co., Inc. in the amount of $1,451,000.00 to remove existing trash
chutes and install 16 new trash chutes and compactors at the Dearborn Homes
Development.

(Item B7)
Phase A-1 of the Robert Taylor on-site project is planned to extend from 40th Street to Root
Street, State Street to the Metra Railroad embankment. Included in that area is the Hartigan
Elementary School (School) located at 8 West Root Street. The Public Building Commission of
the City of Chicago (“PBC”) is currently in title of a parcel immediately west of the School that
falls within the South Dearborn Street Right-of- Way (PBC Parcel). The PBC Parcel is currently
subject to a lease to the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (“BOE”). To the north and
immediately east of the PBC Parcel is a parcel owned by the CHA (CHA Parcel). The CHA
Parcel is located such that it may be developed in conjunction with other land owned or leased
by the BOE as a School parking lot. The PBC Parcel is approximately 11,662 square feet and
the CHA Parcel is approximately 7,746 square feet. The PBC parcel will be dedicated directly to
the City for use as a portion of the South Dearborn Street Right-of-Way. The rededication of
Dearborn Street is in keeping with the CHA policy of returning the Chicago street grid to the
CHA on-site redevelopment areas, where ever possible. The Chicago Public Schools have
11

 requested assistance to reconstruct the parking lot, in consideration of the additional 3,916
square feet that is being conveyed. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B7 approves an
Intergovernmental Agreement with PBC for land transfer adjacent to Hartigan school and
approves the submission of a Disposition Application to HUD as needed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-170
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 19, 2003
entitled “Approval of Intergovernmental Agreement for land transfer of Public
Building Commission controlled land adjacent to the Hartigan school to the City
for use as a right-of-way in exchange for a CHA-owned parcel adjacent to the
Hartigan school and authorization for submission of a Disposition Application to
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as needed” and concurs
with the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (1) execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Public Building
Commission of the City of Chicago (and if necessary or appropriate, the Board of
Education of the City of Chicago and/or the City of Chicago) to convey
approximately 7,746 sq. ft. of CHA-owned land adjacent to the Hartigan School
to the PBC or its designee in exchange for the Public Building Commission
dedicating approximately 11,662 square feet to the City of Chicago as a right-ofway; (2) submit the necessary disposition application to the U. S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to implement this land transfer
agreement; and (3) take such actions and execute any other documents necessary
or appropriate for the land transfers.

(Item B8)
The resolution for Item B8 approves the submission of a Disposition Application to HUD for the
redevelopment of Stateway Gardens and to execute other documents and take such other actions
as may be necessary to implement the foregoing. The Stateway Gardens Master Development
Plan will create a mixed income community that will provide 1,316 quality housing opportunities
both on and off-site. 1/3 of all the units will be CHA public housing, 1/3 affordable for-sale and
rental and 1/3 market rate for-sale. The site will re-establish the historic street grid and create
traditional Chicago neighborhoods. This plan will be implemented in three (3) master phases
over the coming six years. The Stateway Gardens Redevelopment Site that is being requested
for disposition is located in Chicago’s Grand Boulevard Community and bordered by 35th St. to
the north, 39th / Pershing Rd. to the south, State St. to the east and Rock Island/ Pacific Railway
embankment to the west. Of Stateway Garden’s 36.4 gross acreage, 21.4 acres will be
developed for housing, 11.5 will be used for new public Right of Way, and 3.5 acres for public
open space and development. Pursuant to the terms of the executed Master Development
Agreement between the CHA and the Master Developer, Stateway Associates, LLC., CHA will
provide a long term 99 year ground lease to the Developer or their owner entity. This ground
lease will be granted incrementally, on a phase by phase basis. Detailed information will be
provided to HUD and the Board of Commissioners for each future phase.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-171
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 21,
2003, requesting authorization to submit a Disposition Application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for 1) the Stateway
Gardens Redevelopment Site and 2) to execute documents and take such other
actions as necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
1) submit a Disposition Application to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”) for CHA land known as the Stateway Gardens
Redevelopment Site; requesting specific authorization for the disposition by
ground lease of the
Stateway Gardens Redevelopment Site incrementally, on a
phase by phase basis and 2) to execute documents and take such other actions as
necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

12

 (Item B9)
In September 2000 an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago Park District
(CPD) went into effect which authorized the CHA to transfer funds that covered program and
personnel expenses for sports and recreational programs that were administered by CHA staff.
This IGA expired in November 2002. These programs included Beach Blast, Midnight/Biddy
Basketball League, Little Kicks Soccer, Chase Cup, Sports O Rama, and Baseball and Softball
Leagues. As CPD operates substantially similar recreational programs for the benefit of City of
Chicago residents and the operation of such recreational programs is part of the normal duties
and responsibilities of CPD staff, this collaboration resulted in greater efficiency and cost
savings for the CHA. The resolution for Item B9 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the CPD to ensure the continuation of the programs and services on behalf of CHA
residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-172
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 3,
2003, entitled “Authorization To Negotiate And Enter Into An Intergovernmental
Agreement With The Chicago Park District”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
Chicago Park District (“CPD”) for a term beginning June 1, 2003 to December
31, 2005, for the provision of programs and services run by the Chicago Park
District to Chicago Housing Authority residents for an amount not-to-exceed
$505,000.00

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B9 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Martin Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented
his monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee meeting was
held on Wednesday, October 15, 2003, and the Chief Financial Officer and his staff presented
the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of September 30, 2001 and a
comprehensive review of the FY2004 Budget.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the resolutions for
Items C1 through C4, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the revision of the FY2003 Comprehensive Budge. The
impact of this budget revision resulted in the following changes: total revenue and associated
expenditures in the General Fund decreased by $38,853,696 for a fund total of $837,831,693.
This decrease is due to the realignment of the budget based on projected spending in FY2003 at
various CHA properties. Total revenue and associated expenditures in the HOPE VI fund
decreased by $11,824,577 for a fund total of $42,052,357. This decrease is due to the
realignment of the budget based on projected spending in FY2003 at various CHA properties.
Total revenue and associated expenditures in City/State fund decreased by $1,841,059 for a fund
total of $9,713,490. This decrease is due to the realignment of the budget to reflect current
activities at City/State properties in FY2003. The estimated sum of all revenues for fiscal year
13

 2003 and the amount of the fiscal year 2003 Fund Balance available for appropriation in the
fiscal year is equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made or incurred during the
fiscal year and the amount of all unpaid liabilities at the beginning of the fiscal year 2003.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-173
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated September 19,
2003, entitled “Approval of the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“Approval of the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:
1.
2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item C2)
HUD uses the Performance Funding System (PFS) to determine a public housing authority’s
eligibility for an operating subsidy, in accordance with Section 9(a) of the U.S. Housing Act of
1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437g. The PFS is applicable to all public housing authority owned units under
an Annual Contributions Contract. The CHA is required to submit a PFS Calculation detailing
the total operating subsidy for fiscal year 2004. HUD established a formula as part of the
Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement, Unlike the procedure used in prior years, HUD has
requested each Authority to submit its PFS Schedule prior to the release of final pro-rations.
This is being done in order to determine the overall need of Public Housing Authorities. Upon
release of the final pro-ration amount, the CHA’s FY2004 Comprehensive Budget will be
adjusted accordingly. The resolution for Item C2 approves the submission of the FYU2004 PFS
Calculation to HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-174
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated October 2,
2003, requesting authorization to submit FY2004 Performance Funding System
Calculation to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and approval
of the FY2004 Performance Funding System Performance Calculation.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the FY2004 Performance Funding System
Calculation and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute
and submit the Performance Funding System Calculation and all necessary related
documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item C3)
In August 2003, the CHA issued Request for Proposal for the supply, delivery and maintenance
of washers, dryers and related laundry room equipment at various CHA Senior Developments.
The contract is for a base term of five (5) years, with one, 1-year option to extend. The RFP was
advertised publicly and seven (7) firms were solicited directly, of which two (2) were certified
MBE/WBE firms. Four (4) companies responded to the RFP and were deemed responsive and
responsible. The four respondents were invited to present an oral presentation. After these
sessions, a “best and final” offer was provided by each respondent. Based on the
recommendation of the evaluation committee, the Resolution for Item C3 approves award of
14

 contracts to three of the firms: MacGray, Family Pride and Coinmach. This revenue sharing
endeavor differs from most CHA procurements in that the subsequent agreements will be written
in a manner to allow the vendors to realize an appropriate return on their investments and to
allow the CHA to assist in funding some resident programs/services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-175
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 3,
2003, titled, “Authorization to Enter into Contracts with MacGray Services, Inc.,
Family Pride, Inc., and Coinmach, Inc. for the Supply and Maintenance of
Washers, Dryers and Laundry Room Equipment at Various Senior
Developments;”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a five-year revenue sharing contract, with one option year,
with MacGray Services, Inc., Family Pride, Inc., and Coinmach, Inc., to provide
the supply, delivery and maintenance of washers, dryers and laundry room
equipment at various senior developments.

(Item C4)
The Chicago Housing Authority has over 33,000 participants in the Housing Choice Voucher
Program and approximately over ten thousand located in the Southwest corridor of the City. In
order to provide better service and access to Special Programs included in the Housing Choice
Voucher Program, the CHA has decided to open a Housing Choice Voucher Program Satellite
office on the Southwest side in October 2003. The CHA’s satellite office will service families in
this area by conducting workshops on Family Self Sufficiency (FSS), Choose to Own (CTO), the
Mobility Program and landlord education. This site will also house CHA staff to assist clients
with paper work, respond to inquiries from both tenants and landlords and refer families to
supportive services on site. There will be staff available from the Service Connector Program
and easy access to counselors and/or staff for assistance in various areas. This site has ample
parking and easy access to public transportation for participants on the Southwest side. The
service area in general will be bounded by 35th Street on the North, city limits on the South, State
Street on the East and Pulaski on the West. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C4 ratifies lease
agreement with Linton Real Estate and the CHA.
RESOLUTION 2003-CHA-176
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 15,
2003, entitled “Request for Authorization to Ratify the Lease for Premises
Located at 1550 W. 88th St. Chicago Illinois”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the Chief Executive Officer’s
execution of a Lease Agreement for the premises Located at 1550 W. 88th St.
Chicago Illinois” between Linton Real Estate Development & Management Co.
Inc. and the Chicago Housing Authority for a three year period, expiring October
15, 2006 at $105,000 annually.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C4 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

15

 There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

16

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 