Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of June 20, 2006
Altgeld Gardens, 951 E. 132nd Street, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

Status

Welcomed Commissioners and the Public to
Altgeld Gardens.
Highlighted Security Initiatives for Altgeld.

Comments Noted.

3.

Bernadette Williams
Altgeld LAC President
Commander Matthews
5th District
Vivian Murdo

Would like to know why her rent is $900/month.

We are currently researching this matter.

4.

Gail Jackson

In the return process, how does the lottery work.
If you have been relocated, how do you know if
you are in the lottery and how can residents be
assured that there is a lottery and not
management choice as to who should return to
the newly rehabbed units. What is a mixedincome community? How many work orders have
been completed for the newly rehabbed units?

Lease compliant Leaseholders are guaranteed the right to return
to a newly constructed or rehabilitated public housing unit.
However, the CHA cannot guarantee that all families displaced
by redevelopment activity will be able to return to their site of
origin or receive their permanent choice. When units become
available, first priority for those units will be determined by a
computer generated lottery system (HOP system) which assigns
HOP numbers and determines priority groups and unit size.
First Priority, are those who were Leaseholders on or before
10/1/99 and chose that site as their permanent housing choice
and are lease compliant and if applicable meet site specific
criteria. The lottery number is frequently referred to as the
Housing Offer Process number (HOP #).

1.
2.

Comments Noted.

A mixed income community is a community of individuals with
different levels of incomes.
Management has not completed any work orders for the newly
renovated units due to the fact the units are under warranty for
one (1) year.

 5.

Jacqueline Nelson

What are the guidelines and procedures to
remove Eastlake as Management Company from
Altgeld. Is there any agency within CHA, HUD or
outside agency that can provide assistance to
residents who have been harassed and
intimidated for speaking out.

6.

Patricia Jackson

Why do residents have to wait for Section 8 if they
are ready to be relocated.
How can CHA send residents to court when they
are not found guilty in court and send them to civil
court.
Why is CHA charging for court cost when they
have not been to court?
Management not responsive to her Doctor’s
request that her unit be inspected for mold and
mildew. Mice in her unit.

7.

Naomi Allen

8.

Idella Cummings
1108 E. 133rd Street
(773) 928-6292

9.

Isaac Jackson

Contractors are saying they are unable to find
qualified residents for Section 3 work, however,
there are several residents qualified to work.

10.

Kathy Parker

Ceded Minutes to Cheryl Johnson

11.

Cheryl Johnson

Residents were not included in decision making
for Altgeld redevelopment. Altgeld residents
requesting washer and dryer hook-ups.

12.

Tammy Cummings

Rent statements are not received on a monthly
basis and when received monthly charges keep
changing.

A Property Management firm can be terminated by exercising
the default section of their contract.
2. Residents being harassed by their management firm should
contact the CHA asset manager. Residents being harassed by a
tenant representative should contact the Central Advisory
Council. Residents being harassed by another tenant should
contact their management firm.
Relocation occurs in Phases according to construction schedule.
Thus Section 8 is offered to affected areas of construction.
Court costs are applied after the 14-day notices have expired
and once the notices have been delivered to the CHA’s attorney
for processing.

The CHA has offered on two occasions another one-bedroom
make ready unit to the resident. Resident insists on waiting for
a newly renovated unit. Resident was informed her block is
scheduled for renovation in 2008.
The CHA’s policy requires that Section 3 job opportunities be
offered first to any qualified residents who live in development
where the work is being performed. Section 3 workers are hired
from referrals from the Section 3 database, which is available
through the CHA Department of Human Resources.

Every Working Group consists of the residents of Altgeld-Murray
Homes; social service agencies within
the community; East Lake Management; City of Chicago and
Capital Development.
The internal problem has been corrected. Residents now
receive their monthly statements on time.

 13.

Diane Williams

Visual Tours, provided by architectural firm
Hollarbird & Root , are different from actual
renderings and floor plans for Phase. Units not
completed in Block 12. Between 2002 & 2004
Altgeld received funding for new sidewalks and
roofs, why was the new infrastructure torn down
for Phase I and Phase I has exceeded the
awarded amount.

1. The animation was a portrayal of what the units would look
like and are believed to be fair representation of the actual units.
Please Note: The furniture in the animation was only shown to
give a sense of the scale needed.
2. The CHA is still trying to determine usage of incomplete units
in Block 12.
3. Even though new funding was provided for roofs and
sidewalks, there were problems with the sheathing that the
roofing was applied over and the new roof system that was
installed is better in terms of energy conservation. As it relates
to the sidewalks, the sidewalk patterns were changed in order to
provide more green space and make them more eco-friendly.
In addition, the working group wanted all of the buildings to be
similar in appearance and performance.

14.

Ocevia Harris

15.

Dorian Gray

16.

Emma Williams

17.

Geneva Lanier

18.

Edna Jackson

When will residents on Block 1 be allowed to have
cable and internet access in their units.
When will cable be installed in Block 1, 2 and 3.
What is the delay of cable.
Enjoying her newly renovated apartment.
What was the result of the survey funded by the
MacArthur Grant. Who conducted the research
and requesting copy of listing of residents
interview.
Enjoys new apartment, however would like cable
installed. There is standing water in her area.
Fence needed for corner units.

4. In rehab construction contracts, there are almost always
some change orders and the amounts have been within industry
standards.
The CHA is in the process of working out an agreement with the
cable company.
The CHA is in the process of working out an agreement with the
cable company.
Comments Noted.
We are researching this matter.

The CHA is in the process of working out an agreement with the
cable company.
The standing water is a grading problem and has been referred
to the Contractor in charge of renovations. A yard fencing
system is being designed and will be constructed after rehabs
have been completed in blocks 1, 2 & 3.

 