

CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

 

April 11, 2012 ITEM NO. A1

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH OLD VETERAN
CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR EXTERIOR FACADE IMPROVEMENTS,
MECHANICAL AND PLUMBING UPGRADES, UNIT INTERIOR UPGRADES, AND
BUILDING LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES AT PATRICK SULLIVAN APARTMENTS

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the amount of
$21,103,500.00 for exterior facade improvements, mechanical and plumbing upgrades, unit
interior upgrades, and building life safety upgrades at Patrick Sullivan Apartments 
This is a Senior housing development located at 1633 West Madison Street, Chicago, IL. The
work will take seven hundred sixty (760) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to
Proceed.

RECOMMENDATION SUMMARY
Funding: General Fund

Speci?cation Number: IFB 11 00872

Date Advertised: December 30, 2011

Pre-Bid Conference: January 9, 2012

Site Visit: January 9, 2012

Addendum No. 1 Issued: February 2, 2012

Addendum No. 2 Issued: February 9, 2012

Addendum No. 3 Issued: February 22, 2012

Date Bids Opened: March 1, 2012

Advertisement Publication(s): Chicago Sun?Times, Chicago Defender, Extra, CHA website,
BuySpeed Online

Number of Vendors Solicited: 725 (including 181 ?rms)
Number of Assist Agencies: 64
Number of Pickups/Downloads: 70

 

 

Number of Bids Received: 6

Contract Type: Construction Services

Contract Time: Seven hundred sixty (760) calendar days from the date set forth
in the Notice to Proceed

Contract Amount: 21,103,500.00

Participation:

Direct MBE 43 WBE DBE 

Section 3:

Hiring 21 Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities
GENERAL BACKGROUND

 

Patrick Sullivan Apartments (?Sullivan Apartments?) is a 482-unit senior housing building

 

 

located at 1633 West Madison Street, Chicago, IL. The twenty-two story structure was built in
1964 and sits on a 3.61-acre site that includes a management/maintenance building at 35 South
Paulina Street.

Over 2001-2002, the Chicago Housing Authority a) replaced the roo?ng system, b)
modernized the elevators, c) air conditioned the ?rst ?oor theatre, and d) out?tted all residential
units with through-wall air conditioners.

In 2002, the CHA awarded a contract for general rehabilitation work that included 1) residential
unit upgrades to the kitchens and bathrooms, 2) replacement of the windows, and 3) electrical
and mechanical upgrades. In 2009, the CHA attempted to address water-in?ltration issues by re-
securing exterior precast panels to the building and reapplying joint sealant.

The CHA staged the work over the years based on its original strategy of renovation on a
system-by-system basis. In recent years, the agency?s approach to rehabilitation has evolved
towards a comprehensive ?gut/reha approach, rather than a system-by-system rehabilitation.

Building Issues
The CHA commissioned a reserve study of its Senior housing portfolio in 2007 to more

systemically project and manage the Senior portfolio?s capital needs over time. At this particular
building, the study identi?ed water in?ltration at several window locations during periods of
heavy wind driven rains. It recommended replacing air conditioning units after ten (10) years of
use in 2012. The study also recommended replacing and modernizing the domestic water booster
pumps (which maintain water pressure) because the current pumps are not tied in to the
emergency power generator and automatic transfer switch and the building could lose
water pressure in emergencies.

Despite efforts to mitigate water in?ltration issues, in 2011 the CHA performed additional spray
water testing which con?rmed the leakage problem still existed. The tests suggested that much of
the problem was in and around the building?s 43-year old precast masonry panels. The CHA
contracted to re-secure all pre-cast panels, repair damaged panels, and replace deteriorated joint
sealant.

However, this precast panel work still did not completely eliminate the water in?ltration.
Further testing revealed leakage through the windowsills. The CHA worked with its Prime
Design Consultant to produce a new solution, and conducted extensive water tests of that
solution. The parties observed no water in?ltration. The water Spray test also revealed gaps in
the air conditioning units that lead to in?ltration that the parties addressed in the design work.

Furthermore, the building?s plumbing system is the original, and is in need of replacement.
Leaks and low water pressure plague the building?s hot and cold-water plumbing risers.

The Chicago City Council recently passed a building Life Safety and High-rise Ordinance with a
2015 compliance deadline. Designs include upgrades to the building?s life safety systems to
ensure compliance with the new ordinance.

Finally, the CHA will take this opportunity to replace outwom kitchen appliances, tile and other
unit interior amenities, and will assure compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act

 

60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 00005-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - mm Mechaorg

 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 regulations in areas not
previously addressed.

Accordingly, the Capital Construction Department recommends the following scope of work for
Sullivan Apartments, including, but not limited to, the following:

Exterior
0 Replacing windows in all residential units; the proposed windows are commercial grade
ADA compliant aluminum windows.
0 Replacing sealant around all air conditioning units to correct water in?ltration.
0 Seal coating (waterproo?ng) existing masonry.

Mechanical/Electrical/Plumbing 
- Replacing all existing galvanized plumbing risers to include domestic hot and cold water
risers, horizontal vent lines and installation of cleanouts at each stack line.
0 Upgrading the booster pumps to operate in emergencies.
The proposed new pumps will be tied in to the emergency panel and automatic transfer
switch to ensure the residents have domestic water at all times.

Life Safety Fire Prevention
0 Installation of elevator recall systems.
0 Installation of a sprinkler system.
0 Upgrade the smoke detector and ?re alarm systems replace any faulty equipment.

Interiors
0 In the Common Areas, vinyl ?oor tiles have been installed over the original layer of tiles.
0 This creates a condition where ?ooring delaminates, creating the need for
replacement.
0 At the same time, glue holding down the tile contains asbestos materials and needs to
be abated in accordance with applicable laws.
0 Repair all existing residential units to include new kitchen, kitchen appliances, new vinyl
?ooring and new windows blinds, and install new air conditioning units.

Construction Period
0 Construction is occur to over twenty-four (24) months and will be divided into phases.

Impact on the Residents During Construction

The CHA will seek to minimize the impact on residents once work begins. The CHA would
relocate residents from the ?rst two (2) tiers and commence construction therein. The residents
will return to the tiers once the contractor completes the work. The General Contractor will
coordinate construction activities with the Private Property Manager and Resident Services on a
tier-by-tier basis to keep the residents aware of the status of work being performed and
anticipated move dates.

Summary of Bene?ts
0 Make the building water tight and eliminate potentialhazards (mold, asbestos, slip and
60 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - awry. theohamrg

 

 

fall hazards);

Bring the mechanical and plumbing systems up to current codes and industry standards;
Make the building compliant;

The building will be compliant with the 2015 Life Safety and High-rise Ordinance;
Increase the value of the property;

Extend the useful life of the building;

Improve overall quality of life for the residents; and

Increase the ability to fully rent the building.

PROCUREMENT HISTORY
The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid 11 00872 on December 30, 2011.
Advertisements ran in the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Defender, Extra, on the CHA
website, and on BuySpeed Online. The Pre-Bid Conference and Site Visit were held on January
9, 2012.

Three (3) addendums were issued for this solicitation. Addendum No. 1, issued on February 2,
2012, moved the bid opening date from February 7, 2012 to February 27, 2012. Addendum No.
2, issued February 9, 2012, responded to Requests for Information, issued revised Bid Fee
pages, distributed a complete set of revised drawings and selected revised technical
speci?cation sections. Addendum No. 3, issued February 22, 2012, moved the bid opening date a
second time to March 1, 2012 and provided a clari?cation on substitution requests. The CHA
received and opened six (6) bids on March 1, 2012.

After analyzing the bid submittal materials, the Department of Procurement and Contracts
(?Procurement?), the Asset Management Department (?Asset Management?) and the Capital
Construction Department held a pre-award survey/clari?cation meeting with the
apparent low bidder, Old Veteran Construction, Inc. (?Old Veteran?). The representatives of that
?rm responded to questions on the thoroughness of their bid, how they developed their Division
Costs, and the amount of work they planned to self-perform. Old Veteran reviewed which sub-
contractors would perform portions of the work. A Compliance Specialist reviewed the ?rm?s
compliance materials in detail and requested updates to Old Veteran?s information.

Having performed a thorough review of the bid materials of the apparent low bidder, the CCD
staff recommends that Old Veteran be awarded a contract for this work. Procurement has
completed its own review of the bid materials and recommendation, and has determined
that Old Veteran is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $21,103,500.00.

Based on the foregoing, the Capital Construction Department recommends that the Board of
Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to enter into a contract
with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the amount of $21,103,500.00 for exterior facade
improvements, mechanical and plumbing upgrades, unit interior upgrades, and building life
safety upgrades at Patrick Sullivan Apartments The work will take seven hundred
sixty (760) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.

This award is subject to the Contractor?s compliance with the Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

 

60 van Buren Stmet- Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 (312) 742-3500 - mm: Masha. org

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-23

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 11, 2012

entitled TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH OLD
VETERAN CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR EXTERIOR FACADE
IMPROVEMENTS, MECHANICAL AND PLUMBING UPGRADES, UNIT
INTERIOR UPGRADES, AND BUILDING LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES AT
PATRICK SULLIVAN 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc. in the
amount of $21,103,500.00 for exterior facade improvements, mechanical and
plumbing upgrades, unit interior upgrades, and building life safety upgrades at
Patrick Sullivan Apartments This is a Senior housing development
located at 1633 West Madison Street, Chicago, IL. The work will take seven
hundred sixty (760) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.

This award is subject to the Contractor?s compliance with the 
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

1'1:

   
   

 

I
Board of Commissioners

 

6?0 E. Van Buren Street - Chicago, Illinois 60605-1207 - (312) 742-8500 - mocha. org

