MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
June 20, 2012
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Wednesday, June 20, 2012 at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the Kenmore
Apartments, 5040 North Kenmore in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Carlos Ponce
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Charles Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Ammarell, General
Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
Chairwoman Scott, announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately two hours to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairwoman Scott thereupon
convened the Business and Public portion of the meeting.
Upon Motion made by Commissioner Young and properly seconded by Commissioner Cepeda,
the Minutes for Executive Session and Board Meeting of May 15, 2012 were unanimously
approved.
Chairwoman Scott then introduced the two items discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner
Cepeda then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 and 2.
Commissioner Young recused on voting on Executive Session Item 1 only.
(Executive Session Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-42
WHEREAS,
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, June
13, 2012, requesting authorization to 1) Execute a Settlement Agreement
with Oakwood Funding, Inc. and Granite Partners for Oakwood
Boulevard, LLC for a not to exceed amount of $472,507 in the Oakwood
Shores Redevelopment Area and 2) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
1

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1) Execute a Settlement Agreement with Oakwood Funding,
Inc. and Granite Partners for Oakwood Boulevard, LLC for a not to
exceed amount of $472,507 in the Oakwood Shores Redevelopment Area
and 2) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing

(Executive Session Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2012–CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 20, 2012,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Carlos Ponce
Z. Scott
Sandra Young (Recused on ES Item 1 only)
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee meeting then presented
her report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, June 13, 2012 at approximately 1:05 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Staff from the Tenant Services Division presented the committee with an update on CHA’s
Choose to Own Homeownership Program. The Committee then discussed, voted and
recommended for Board approval the following three items:
(Item A1)
In December 2011, a Request for Proposal was advertised soliciting vendors to continue
providing CHA’s Choose to Own Homeownership Counseling Services (CTO). For the past 10
years, CTO has provided Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) tenants the option to own a home
within the city of Chicago by utilizing the voucher subsidy to help families pay a portion of their
mortgage. In 2011, CHA expanded the CTO program to also include public housing families.
CTO is aligned with CHA’s corporate strategies of helping families maximize their potential and
move toward economic independence. Of the seven proposals received, five firms were found to
be within the competitive range. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals and best
and final offers, it was determined that four of the five firms, Neighborhood Housing Services of
Chicago, Spanish Coalition for Housing, The Resurrection Project and The Law Project will
provide the best overall service and value to the CHA. The recommended contract awards are
based on the anticipated number of referrals each agency will receive for their proposed services
and the fees each agency proposed in their Best and Final Offers. The Contractors selected to
operate the Program will be responsible for providing pre- and post-homeownership counseling,
legal services and additional support throughout the home buying process. The four selected
vendors have a unique combination of experience to provide these services and are all HUD
certified agencies.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 13, 2012, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER
INTO TWO-YEAR CONTRACTS WITH NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING
SERVICES, SPANISH COALITION FOR HOUSING, RESURRECTION
PROJECT AND THE LAW PROJECT TO PROVIDE PRE_PURCHASE AND
POST-PURCHASE COUNSELING AND LEGAL SERVICES FOR
PARTICIPANTS OF THE CHOOSE TO OWN PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into fee-for-service contracts for a two (2) year base term, with
two (2) one-year options with (1) Neighborhood Housing Services in an amount
not-to-exceed $84,250 for the base term; (2) Spanish Coalition for Housing in an
amount not-to-exceed $58,200 for the base term; (3) Resurrection Project in an
amount not-to-exceed $41,000 for the base term and (4) The Law Project in an
amount not-to-exceed $60,000 for the base term, for an aggregate amount not-toexceed $243,450 to provide pre-purchase and post-purchase counseling and legal
services for participants of CHA’s Choose to Own Homeownership Counseling
Program.

(Item A2)
The CHA advertised a Request for Proposal (RFP) in March 2012 in area newspapers to solicit
vendors to provide relocation and mobility counseling services and educate CHA families on the
benefits of moving into Opportunity Areas. Additionally, 64 Assist Agencies received
notification of the solicitation, and copies were made available at the CHA offices. CHA also
directly solicited 13 firms, and posted the solicitation announcement on CHA’s website and in
BuySpeed. Of the two 2 proposals received and evaluated, both firms were found to be within
the competitive range and were invited to participate in oral presentations. After the
presentations, and additional clarifications via telephone, best and final offers were requested and
submitted by both firms. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations
and best and final offers, it was determined that both vendors would provide the best overall
service and value to CHA. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract
to Housing choice Partners of Illinois and Housing Opportunities Unlimited, in an aggregate notto-exceed amount of $1,341,780.00. The Program’s goal of de-concentrating subsidized units
and encouraging families to move to Opportunity Areas is aligned with CHA’s new corporate
strategies that focus on helping families maximize their potential, move toward economic
independence and creating complete, healthy and strong communities. CHA’s Mobility Program
is supported by HUD as an effective means to meet the Quality Housing and Work
Responsibility Act of 1998. Ultimately, the Mobility Program seeks to increase the number of
families receiving an HCV subsidy in Opportunity Areas, while addressing the existing barriers
of mobility. Any lease compliant HCV family, currently not living in an Opportunity Area is
eligible for services through the Mobility Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 13, 2012, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER
INTO CONTRACTS WITH HOUSING CHOICE PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS
AND HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES UNLIMITED TO PROVIDE CHA’S
MOBILITY COUNSELING PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into cost reimbursement contracts for a 1-year base term with
Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in an amount not-to-exceed $700,000 for the
base term and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an amount not-to-exceed
$641,080 for the base term, with each contract having 3 additional 1-year options,
to provide CHA’s Mobility Counseling Program.

3

 (Item A3)
In May 2012, the Board authorized CHA to accept a grant in the amount of $800,000 from
Department of Family and Support Services (DFSS) to provide stipends for 1,280 youth and
young adults ages 14-24 to participate in the Summer Youth Employment Program (SYEP).
Following the Board’s approval, CHA received notification from DFSS that CHA would be
awarded an additional $313,200 to provide stipends for 500 more youth workers, increasing the
total grant award to $1,113,200 to provide stipends for a total of 1,780 youth and young adults to
participate in the SYEP. The DFSS award stipulates that the grant funds may only be used for
youth worker stipends. CHA will utilize Centers for New Horizons, Employment and Employer
Services, Heartland Human Care Services, Metropolitan Family Services, Near West Side CDC
and Uhlich Children’s Advantage Network (UCAN), as previously authorized by the Board in
May 2012 to implement the SYEP. These contractors will be assigned additional youth worker
participants based upon capacity and the distribution of the previously approved administrative
fees. The intention of the SYEP is to provide Chicago youth and young adults with safe,
meaningful summer experiences, while learning valuable and transferable skills that connect life
lessons and academic preparation, ultimately enhancing participants’ long-term employment
prospects. Participants will be engaged up-to 20 hours per week for 6-weeks. The anticipated
term for the program is July 9, 2012 through August 17, 2012. Youth participants will receive a
stipend up to $600 for successfully completing the program and young adult supervisors will
receive up to $1,000. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves acceptance of an
increased grant award from DFSS.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 13, 2012, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ACCEPT
AN INCREASED GRANT AWARD FROM THE CITY OF CHICAGO
DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND SUPPORT SERVICES AND INCREASE
THE COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET FOR THE SUMMER YOUTH
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to accept an award and increase the grant agreement with the City of
Chicago Department of Family and Support Services (“DFSS”) in the amount of
$313,200 for the DFSS Summer Youth Employment Program (“SYEP”), and to
increase the FY 2012 comprehensive budget by the same amount. This additional
grant award from DFSS can only be utilized to pay stipends for 500 additional
youth workers. The additional award increases the DFSS not-to-exceed grant
amount to $1,113,200 to provide stipends for 1,780 youth workers.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items A1 thru A3 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Carlos Ponce
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then
presented her report. Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations and Facilities Committee
Meeting was held on Wednesday, June 13, 2012 at the CHA Corporate Offices at approximately
1:55 p.m.
4

 Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B2, B3 and B5.
(Item B2)
In March 2012, a Request for Proposal was advertised in area newspapers soliciting vendors to
provide comprehensive screening services for public housing residents, HCV participants and
HCV landlords. Of the eight proposals received, five firms scored within the competitive range.
Oral presentations, clarification, and negotiations were held with the firms in the competitive
range and the best and final offers were submitted. Based upon the evaluation of the written
proposals, oral presentations, negotiations and best and final offers, it was determined that the
proposal of Screening Reports, Inc. would provide the best overall service and value to the CHA.
Screening Reports, Inc. will provide comprehensive screening services to include: credit reports,
social security traces, criminal history searches (including multi-county, statewide, nationwide,
multi-state sex offender searches and reports), and tenant history analysis, along with automated
tools to facilitate interpretation of the results. Screening Reports will also provide a minimum of
six training sessions for staff to understand how to utilize the screenings and reports. Screening
Reports will customize the criminal background screening in accordance with both the HCV and
Public Housing programs’ respective eligibility guidelines. The scope of work to be completed
by Screening Reports is more comprehensive and less expensive that the other proposals
received. The cost of a combined credit and criminal screening is 2.4% less per screening than
the current contract for screening services, with an estimated cost savings of $6,750 using the
projected usage for criminal and credit reports for the requested base and option terms. The cost
per screening is less than other commercially available national or local screening services.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves award of contract to Screening Reports, Inc.
for comprehensive screening services for CHA tenants, HCV participants and HCV landlords.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 13, 2012
entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Screening Reports, Inc. to
Provide Tenant Screening Services to Public Housing and Housing Choice
Voucher Programs”;
THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Screening Reports, Inc. to provide screening
services for public housing tenants and housing choice voucher applicants,
participants, and landlords, for the two-year period of August 1, 2012 through
July 31, 2014, for an amount not-to-exceed $1,012,500.00, with one (1) one-year
option not-to exceed $506,250.00, resulting in total not-to-exceed compensation
in the amount of $1,518,750.00 for the combined base and option terms.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves amendment and contract extension with CVR Associates
and Nan McKay & Associates, for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $13,036,639 for Program
Administration and Operation of the Housing Choice Voucher Program and Moderate
Rehabilitation Programs. The HCV Program helps approximately 36,000 low income families,
the elderly and people with disabilities choose and pay for housing in the private market. The
current HCV performance based contracts with CVR and NMA will expire on December 31,
2012, CHA desires to extend these contracts for an additional 6 months through June 30, 2013.
CHA will develop a new Request for Proposal (RFP) for the administration of the HCV Program
to be released later this year that will allow CHA to enter into a contract with the selected
vendor(s) and transition the program to their administration beginning July 1, 2013. CHA
believes this extension is imperative to provide consistency in HCV program’s customer and
service delivery as it aligns with the new corporate strategies envisioned and formulated from the
Plan for Transformation 2.0 (PFT) for the CHA at large. With new leadership at both the City
of Chicago and the Chicago Housing Authority, CHA is embarking on a recalibration of the
original Plan for Transformation. With the support of the City of Chicago, HUD, and the John D.
& Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, CHA will explore new tools and strategies for
completing initial goals and planning for the CHA’s future role in providing affordable housing
options. In order to align with the new Plan, the HCV Department needs to develop or modify
existing service areas and performance measurements for the HCV Program that reflect the new
CHA strategic business objectives. CHA is exploring new approaches to deliver services for its
customers, while retooling strategies for completing its initial goals, and planning for the
5

 Housing Authority’s future role in providing affordable housing options. The extension of these
contracts will allow time to incorporate these new considerations into the solicitation for the
administrators of the future HCV Programs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 13, 2012, entitled, “RECOMMENDATION TO AMEND
AND EXTEND CONTRACT No. 1081 WITH CVR & ASSOCIATES, INC.
AND CONTRACT No. 1080 WITH NAN MCKAY & ASSOCIATES FOR
PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE HOUSING
CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM AND MODERATE REHABILITATION
PROGRAMS;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to amend and extend the Contract No. 1080 with CVR Associates, and
Contract No. 1081 with Nan McKay & Associates for the administration and
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority’s Housing Choice Voucher and
Moderate Rehabilitation Programs for an additional 6 month period, from January
1, 2013 through June 13, 2013 for an aggregate amount not to exceed
$13,036,639.00.

(Item B4 – This Number Not Used)

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B, pursuant to Section 6 and various other provisions in the Housing
Authorities Act, approves the delegation of certain authority regarding personnel matters to a
newly established Personnel Committee and to the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of
Commissioners, however, retains final decision making authority over personnel decisions. The
Resolution establishes a three (3) person Personnel Committee comprised of three (3) members
of the Board and with the Chairperson as additional ex-officio member with voting rights but
who shall not be counted present for purposes of establishing a quorum; and delegates to that
Committee the authority to review matters pertaining to personnel, oversee the activities of the
Chief Executive Officer and authorized staff regarding personnel matters, and issue
recommendations approving or disapproving reports issued by the Chief Executive Officer
relating to personnel matters. The resolution also delegates to the Chief Executive Officer the
authority to make findings and recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and
removal of officers and employees, and prescribe the duties and compensation of officers and
employees.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-49
the Chicago Housing Authority (the “Authority”) has been created by, and
exists under, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., as amended
(the “Act”); and

WHEREAS,

pursuant to the Act, the management and control of the Authority is vested in
ten commissioners (the “Board”); and

WHEREAS,

Section 6 of the Act, 310 ILCS 10/6, provides, inter alia, as follows:
The commissioners shall, from time to time, select and appoint
a chief executive officer and officers and employees, including
engineering, architectural and legal assistants, as they may
require for the performance of their duties, and may prescribe
the duties and compensation of each officer and employee or
expressly delegate that authority to the chief executive officer;

and
WHEREAS,

Section 8 of the Act provides that the Authority shall have “all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions” of the Act, 310 ILCS 10/8; and
6

 WHEREAS,

Section 8.5 of the Act provides that the Authority has the power to “make and
from time to time amend and repeal by-laws, rules and regulations” not
inconsistent with the Act, in order “to carry into effect the powers and
purposes of the Authority”; and

WHEREAS,

Section 1 of the By-Laws of the Authority provides, inter alia, that:
The commissioners may by resolution make any delegation of
discretionary powers or ministerial duties, to be exercised in
accordance with the standards, limitations, and controls which
shall be set up in such resolution and which shall not be
inconsistent with the “Act in Relation to Housing Authorities”
to any committee or committees of one or more chosen from
among their number. Any action taken in the name of the
Authority by a person or persons to whom such powers or
duties have been delegated shall be the action of the Authority
and binding upon it, provided such action is pursuant to and
within the scope of the delegation resolution, and consistent
with “An Act in Relation to Housing Authorities.”

and
WHEREAS,

the Board hereby finds and determines that it is necessary and in the best
interests of the Authority to establish a Personnel Committee and to delegate
to such committee the authority to 1) review matters pertaining to personnel,
2) oversee the activities of the Chief Executive Officer and authorized staff
regarding the personnel matters delegated to the Chief Executive Officer
pursuant to this Resolution, and 3) issue recommendations approving or
disapproving the reports issued by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the
terms of this Resolution, all subject to final action of the Board as described
herein; and

WHEREAS,

the Board hereby finds and determines that it is in the best interests of the
Authority to delegate to the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority, as
permitted by the Housing Authorities Act, the authority to 1) make findings
and recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and removal of
officers and employees and 2) prescribe the duties and compensation of
officers and employees, subject to the conditions set forth herein:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority, Cook County, Illinois, as follows:
Section 1. Incorporation of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are hereby
found to be true and correct and are incorporated in their
entirety as if fully set forth in this Section 1.
Section 2. Establishment of Personnel Committee.
There is hereby
established
a Personnel Committee which shall be
comprised of three (3) members of the Board (the
“Committee”). The Chairperson shall be ex-officio voting
members of the Committee, but shall not be counted present
for purposes of establishing a quorum of the Committee.
The responsibilities of the Committee include reviewing
matters pertaining to personnel; overseeing the activities of
the Chief Executive Officer and authorized staff relating to
personnel matters; and issuing recommendations to the
Board approving or disapproving personnel reports issued
by the Chief Executive Officer, all as more fully set forth in
this Resolution.
Section 3. Powers Delegated to Chief Executive Officer. The Authority
hereby authorizes and delegates to the Chief Executive
Officer the power to: 1) make findings and
recommendations regarding the selection, appointment, and
removal of officers and employees and 2) prescribe the
duties and compensation of each officer and employee of the
7

 Authority. The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise such
authority within the constraints of the approved budget for
the fiscal year in which such delegated action is taken. The
responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer as delegated
herein shall be implemented in a manner that promotes the
efficient disposition of all matters within the jurisdiction of
the Authority and is consistent with the requirements of
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and
regulations.
Section 4. Delegation by CEO. The Chief Executive Officer may, as he or
she deems appropriate, delegate to appropriate staff the
investigatory,
research
or
information-gathering
requirements of the Chief Executive Officer’s delegated
responsibilities as described herein. Any person carrying
out these delegated activities shall not have the authority to
make any decisions regarding the selection, appointment,
removal, duties or compensation of any officers or
employees of the Authority.
Section 5. Personnel Action Reports. The Chief Executive Officer shall
submit to the Committee for its review and approval in
advance of regular Board meetings a report summarizing the
personnel actions taken during the preceding month
(“Personnel Action Report” or “PAR”). The PAR shall be
in substantially the form attached hereto and shall include
but need not be limited to the following information:
number of active employees at the beginning and end of
each month; inactive employees; full-time employees; parttime employees; new hires, recalls and re-hires; deceased
employees; laid off employees; resignations; retirements;
terminations;
corrections;
laterals;
demotions;
promotions/position change; merit pay/equity/negotiated
wages; reclassifications and reorganizations; leave of
absence; return from leave of absence; leave with pay; leave
without pay; return to previous position; salary/equity
adjustments; status changes; temporary acting employee;
transfers; total separations; workmen’s compensation; and
payouts or contracts including collective bargaining.
Section 6. Chief

Executive Officer’s Report of Findings and
Recommendations regarding Selection, Appointment, and
Removal of Officers and Employees.

a) The Chief Executive Officer shall submit to the Committee for its
review and approval in advance of regular Board meetings a
report setting forth findings and recommendations
concerning the selection, appointment and removal of
officers and employees (“Report of Findings and
Recommendations”).
The Report of Findings and
Recommendations shall include, without limitation, a
statement of the purpose of and necessity for
the
recommended action(s).
b) In the event the Chief Executive Officer determines that an
emergency exists and that the public health, safety, welfare,
or other exigent circumstances require the immediate
selection, appointment or removal of certain officers and
employees, the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized
to take such action as he deems appropriate, provided that
the Chief Executive Officer: 1) furnish notice to the
members of the Committee and the Board within 48 hours
of taking such action, which notice shall describe the action
and the circumstances warranting such action, and 2)
8

 include a description of such action in the Report of
Findings and Recommendations.
c) In the event that the Chief Executive Officer determines that, in the
absence of conditions described in Section 5(b) hereof, good
business practices or other appropriate circumstances exist
that support the selection, appointment, or removal of
certain officers and employees in advance of the regular
Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer is authorized,
with the prior approval of at least two of the three
Committee members, to take such actions as approved by
said Committee members. A description of such action
shall be included in the Report of Findings and
Recommendations.
Section 7. Committee Review and Recommendations and Board Approval.
The Committee shall review the PAR and Report of
Findings and Recommendations submitted to the Committee
by the Chief Executive Officer. The Committee shall make
its recommendations to the Board at the next regularly
scheduled Board meeting and submit a resolution for the
approval or disapproval of all or any portion of the PAR and
Report of Findings and Recommendations.
If the
Committee disapproves all or any portion of the PAR or
Report of Findings and Recommendations, the Committee’s
recommendation to the Board shall inform the Board of the
reasons for its disapproval. The PAR, the Report of
Findings and Recommendations, and the resolution of the
Committee are collectively referred to as the “Committee
Resolution”.
The Committee Resolution shall be included on the agenda
of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board (or on
the agenda of a special meeting called for such purpose by
the Chairperson). The Board shall at such meeting take
action approving or disapproving all or a portion of the
Committee Resolution.
Section 8. Revocation of authority. The Board may revoke in whole or in
part any specific or implied delegation to the Chief
Executive Officer.
Section 9. Severability. In the event that any provision, clause, sentence,
section or other part of this Resolution is held to be invalid,
unconstitutional, void or unenforceable, the remaining
provisions of this Resolution shall remain in full force and
effect, it being the intent of the Board in adopting this
Resolution that no portion hereof or provision contained
herein shall become inoperative or fail by reason of
unconstitutionality or invalidity of any other portion or
provision.
Section 10.Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
after its passage as provided by law, and any other
resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed to the extent of such conflict.
Per Commissioner Reidy, with regards to Items B3 and B5, staff revised both Board Letters to
address Committee’s concerns discussed during the June 13th Committee Meeting.

9

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B2, B3 and B5 was seconded by
Commissioner Cepeda and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Carlos Ponce
Z. Scott
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

Commissioner Reidy then informed the Board that at the June 13th Committee Meeting,
members voted to defer approval of Item B1 to the full Board, so that staff could properly
address wait list and PRA assistance matters; of concern to Committee members. Per
Commissioner Reidy, CHA staff met with the owners or sponsors of each of the properties under
consideration and as a result of these discussions, Item B1 was split into two items, listed on the
Agenda as Item B1 and Item B1-A.
Commissioner Reidy then presented a motion for the approval of Item B1.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 requests approval of two Housing Assistance Payments Contracts for
Howard Apartments and 5840 S. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, for a total of 6 units. The
Howard Apartments is an existing 49-unit historic building located in the Wicker Park
community owned and managed by the Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation. In June 2011,
the CHA Board of Commissioners approved a 30-year HAP contract for 10 studio units at $790
per month. The 10 PRA units are 100% occupied and no inspection abatements have occurred.
It is recommended that CHA approve an amendment to the existing HAP contract for 2
additional units. The 2 proposed studio units are vacant and substantially comply with Housing
Quality Standards (HQS) requirements. The Wicker Park Community Area is 15 minutes from
the Loop and is characterized by access to employment and shopping. 5840 S. Martin Luther
King, Jr. Dr. Development is a three-story walk-up brick building that was acquired and
renovated as part of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. The property includes 6 threebedroom apartments, an accessible one-bedroom apartment, an accessible two-bedroom
apartment, laundry facilities, and an office for supportive service staff. The resolution for Item
B1 approves 4 PRA units (3 three-bedrooms and 1 one-bedroom), for a 30-year term. This block
in the Washington Park Community Area is part of a comprehensive effort by the city of
Chicago to stabilize neighborhoods. The building will be managed by Affordable Property
Management Specialists. The units in these proposed HAP contracts will be administered as part
of the Property Rental Assistance (PRA) Program. All CHA-assisted PRA units count toward
the overall 25,000 unit goal in the Plan for Transformation. All of the referrals for these units
will come only from CHA’s waiting lists until the waiting lists are exhausted. The waiting lists
include public housing, HCV/PBV and households whose right of return under the Relocation
Rights Contract has not been met.
RESOLUTION 2012-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated June 20, 2012 requesting authorization to execute two Housing
Assistance Payments Contracts for Howard Apartments and 5840 S. Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (1) amend the Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Howard
Apartments and (2) execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for 5840 S.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive; and (3) execute all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

10

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B1 was seconded by Commissioner Ponce and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Deverra Beverly
Adela Cepeda
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Myra King
Bridget Reidy
Carlos Ponce
Z. Scott
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Per Commissioner Reidy, based on further discussion with staff, Item B1-A, Recommendation to
approve a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for Thresholds at Edgewater Shores, will be
deferred until further notice.
Mr. Woodyard, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report. Mr. Woodyard
provided the Board with an update on the Scattered Site Wait List. Per Mr. Woodyard, in the
first half hour of the Waitlist opening at least 645 applications have been received. Mr.
Woodyard then provided an overview of the Moving 101 Housing Choice Voucher program and
the hiring of Cabrini residents by the TV show filmed at Cabrini Green Rowhouses.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the June Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:
________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

11

_______________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 