Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of September 20, 2005
Mahalia Jackson Towers, 9141 South Chicago, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

Status

1.

Pauline Wesley

Welcomed Commissioners, staff and general public to
the Mahalia Jackson Towers.

Comments Noted.

2.

Lorree Cross

Welcomed Commissioners, staff and general public to
the Mahalia Jackson Towers.

Comments Noted.

3.

Joseph Johnson
President, Noir Lane
Ltd.

The Chicago Housing Authority staff and Noir Lane are dealing directly with this
issue. The Department of Procurement sent a letter to Noir lane regarding this
matter.

4.

Arness Dancy
President of Englewood
Black Chamber of
Commerce

5.

Theresa Ricks

6.

Deverra Beverly

Requesting management’s review of CHA’s procurement
practice in general and specifically with respect to the
determination that Noir Lane/DSSA Joint Venture was
not qualified to perform management services thru RFQ
process. Additionally, would like to know the method of
challenging such a determination for the RFQ process.
Received information from staff that HUD provided
waivers for 24CFR85.36D3D. Mr. Johnson would like to
know when were the waivers authorized and by whom
and for what purpose was it intended.
Appearing on behalf of Noir Lane, who is a member of the
Black Chamber of Commerce. Attended de-briefing of
th
Noir Lane on August 28 with CHA staff. Believes that
proper procurement guidelines were not followed and will
be filing a federal complaint with the US Attorneys Office.
In addition to being a CHA resident is also a City Certified
Minority, WBE/MBE/DBE and is unable to get ROB
related work from the CHA.
Would like to thank staff and management company for
positive work being done at ABLA.

The Chicago Housing Authority staff and Noir Lane are dealing directly with this
issue. The Department of Procurement sent a letter to Noir lane regarding this
matter.

In order to receive bids from the Chicago Housing Authority, you must be the
lowest most responsive bidder. Please view the Chicago Housing Authority
website (www.thecha.org) for future bid opportunities.
Comments Noted.

 