MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 19, 2016
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual and Regular Meeting of the Board
of Commissioners on Tuesday, July 19, 2016, at approximately 10:55 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices,
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Pursuant to the By-Laws, at the Annual Meeting of the Authority, the election of officers takes place.
Chairwoman Hooker then presented a Motion to nominate Commissioner Craig Chico to continue to fill
the positions of Vice-Chairman. Per Chairman Hooker, Commissioner Chico’s outstanding leadership,
commitment and tireless efforts to forward CHA’s mission make him the perfect candidate for this
position. There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were then closed and upon Motion
made and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington the voting resulted in unanimous approval for
the re-election of Commissioner Chico to the position of Vice-Chairman of the Chicago Housing
Authority.
Chairman Hooker then nominated Lee Chuc-Gill to fill the position of Secretary and Custodian of
Records. There being no other nomination on the slate, nominations were then closed and upon Motion
made and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris the voting resulted in unanimous approval for the
re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Secretary, Custodian and Keeper of Records for the Board of
Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Each of the officers so elected were present and accepted the offices to which they were elected.

1

 Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting at 8:30 a.m. at the
CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi and Harris. Present also but not counted
for the quorum were Chairman Hooker, Vice-Chairman Chico and Commissioner Washington. Committee
members then discussed, voted and recommend for approval Items No. 2 and 3.
On behalf of Finance & Audit Committee, Commissioner Markowski presented an Omnibus Motion for
the approval of the following two items:
(Item 1 – This Number Not Used)
(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2, ratifies the acceptance of a grant award from HUD in the amount of $100,000
from HUD’s Juvenile Reentry Assistance Program (JRAP) and authorizes entering into an agreement
with the Children & Family Justice Center (CFJC) of the Northwestern Law School’s Bluhm Legal Clinic
for a not-to-exceed amount of $93,000. CHA will receive $7,000 for administrative expenses including
marketing, outreach and local travel. A JRAP attorney at CFJC will engage CHA partners, community
members, CFJC law students and social workers, and pro bono attorneys to provide eligible youth with
information, legal representation, and social work support concerning their records and removal of
barriers such as education, employment and housing for expunging, sealing and certificates of
rehabilitation. CHA will provide bi-annual reporting to HUD to include; the number of clients made
ready for services as a result of JRAP, the number of participants screened and determined eligible for
services, the number of petitions for expungement filed, the number of records expunged, the number of
participants whose driver’s licenses were reinstated and the number of participants who were provided
assistance with readmission to school or obtained employment.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-77
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Ratify the
Acceptance of a Grant Award from the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) and Enter into an Agreement with the Bluhm Legal
Clinic at Northwestern University School of Law for the Juvenile Reentry Assistance
Program.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of a grant award from the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) in the amount of
$100,000 from HUD’s Juvenile Reentry Assistance Program and authorizes the entry into
an agreement with the Children & Family Justice Center (CFJC) of the Northwestern Law
School’s Bluhm Legal Clinic” for a not-to-exceed amount of $93,000.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves the contract extension with Aloha Document Services from July 20,
2016 to December 31, 2016, with additional funding, in an amount not-to-exceed $240,000. With an
increase in production of color print and high volume copies, there is a need to add funding and extend
the current contract to avoid a disruption of service. Aloha has performed according to the terms of the
2

 contract and has provided reliable and quality services to the CHA throughout the term of contract. This
request is necessary to continue uninterrupted high volume printing services for the CHA. Since June
2012, Aloha Document Services has provided high volume specialty printing services for the Chicago
Housing Authority under Contract #11111. Aloha provides a fast turnaround from project initiation to
completion, including delivery. Aloha Document Services is conveniently located at 60 East Van Buren
Suite 1507.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-78
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Extend and Add
Funds to Contract #11111 with Aloha Document Services.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract extension with Aloha Document Services to
provide high volume and specialty printing services from July 20, 2016 to
December 31, 2016, with additional not-to-exceed funding in the amount of
$240,000, for a revised total compensation amount not-to-exceed $1,497,000.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 2 and 3 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, ViceChairman Craig Chico presented her report. Per Commissioner Chico, the Tenant Services committee held
its monthly meeting earlier today at approximately 8:45 a.m. The following Commissioners were present
as well: Commissioners Harris and Washington. Present also, but not counted for the quorum were
Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Markowski and Chairman Hooker.
On behalf of Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Chico presented an Omnibus Motion for the
approval of the following four items:

3

 (Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves the first, second and third one-year option terms of Contract No.
11459 with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois (HCP) in an amount not-to-exceed $1,504,892.00 for
each option year to provide services for CHA’s Mobility Counseling program for an aggregate amount
not-to exceed $6,874,459.00. Each option term shall only be exercised at the time of the expiration of the
prior contract term, and may only be exercised individually. CHA has offered a Mobility Program to
encourage families to move to Opportunity Areas since 2004. Currently, 10.5% of Housing Choice
Voucher (HCV) participants live in an Opportunity Area. Research demonstrates that living in an
Opportunity Area benefits the family as a whole. Adults in the household gain access to wider and more
stable employment networks, which ultimately increases their earning power.
The Mobility
Demonstration Program (MDP) is an enhanced mobility program, which serves families with school age
youth age 13 and younger from the public housing waitlist. The MDP exists as a result of an agreement
with Business and Professional People for the Public Interest (BPI), and will match up to 218 units over
four years, or longer if the development process is limited or interrupted.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-79
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
AUTHORTIZE OPTION YEAR TERMS OF THE CONTRACT WITH HOUSING
CHOICE PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
exercise, in their discretion, the first, second and third one-year option terms of
Contract No. 11459 with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in an amount not-toexceed $1,504,892.00 for each option year, to provide services for CHA’s Mobility
Counseling program for an aggregate amount not-to exceed $6,874,459.00. Each
option term shall only be exercised at the time of the expiration of the prior contract
term, and may only be exercised individually.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves the second and final one-year option terms of Contract No. 11333
with Centers for New Horizons (CNH) in a not-to-exceed amount of $473,205.00 and of Contract No.
11334 with Employment and Employer Services (EES) in a not-to-exceed amount of $765,479.00, to
provide Transitional Jobs (TJ) programs to CHA residents, for an aggregate amount of $1,238,684.00 for
the second and final one-year option terms for both Contracts. CHA’s Resident Services Division is
charged with helping families move along the path to self-sufficiency. To accomplish this goal, CHA
requires specialized workforce development services. TJ programs are evidence-based programs that lead
to sustained unsubsidized employment. The TJ model is designed to address the employment needs of
individuals who possess little or no work history. TJ programs are intentionally designed to provide job
experience to participants who lack the skills needed to successfully attach to the workforce. TJ has
distinct program components, including supportive services, subsidized work experience, support during
transition to unsubsidized employment and retention support after employment placement. The target
population includes residents with little or no work history who have not participated in subsidized or
4

 unsubsidized employment for four or more consecutive quarters. Training wages are paid by the TJ
service provider through a contract for the entire subsidized placement.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-80
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE-YEAR OPTION TERM OF CONTRACTS
WITH CENTERS FOR NEW HORIZONS AND EMPLOYMENT AND
EMPLOYER SERVICES”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second and final one-year option terms of Contract No.
11333 with Centers for New Horizons in a not-to-exceed amount of $473,205.00,
and of Contract No. 11334 with Employment and Employer Services in a not-toexceed amount of $765,479.00, to provide Transitional Jobs programs to CHA
residents, for an aggregate amount of $1,238,684.00 for the second and final oneyear option terms for both Contracts.
This award is subject to the Contractors’ compliance with the CHA’s applicable
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 6)
The resolution for item No. 6 approves of a demonstration program to provide housing subsidies for
survivors of human trafficking through the Housing Choice Voucher program utilizing 60 vouchers over
a three-year period. In 2012, President Obama created an Interagency Task Force to monitor and combat
trafficking in persons. As a result, a federal strategic plan on services for victims of human trafficking in
the United States was created. HUD and the Administration for Children and Families (ACF, part of the
Department of Health and Human Services) joined efforts on one of the strategic objectives of the plan –
Objective 8: Improve access to victim services by removing systemic barriers. In Chicago, regional
HUD and ACF offices have joined together and approached both the Chicago Housing Authority and the
Housing Authority of Cook County to pilot housing programs that would be the first in the nation to
intentionally address the housing issues for those who have experienced human trafficking.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Approve a Demonstration
Program for Survivors of Human Trafficking.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute the demonstration program to provide housing subsidies for survivors of human
trafficking through the Housing Choice Voucher program utilizing 60 vouchers over a
three-year period.
5

 (Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago
Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP) for a one-year base term from August 1, 2016 through July
31, 2017 to provide administrative oversight, including an update to the intergovernmental structure for
all participating housing authorities, procedures, selection criteria, metrics and an annual plan for the
Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) in an amount not to exceed $140,000.00. The resolution further
approves the CHA to distribute Housing Choice Vouchers to the maximum extent allowable if and when
a contribution is needed to continue support of the Regional Housing Initiative, in accordance with
previous Board authorizations. The goal of RHI is to expand housing options for low income families
and this innovative structure of pooling Housing Choice Vouchers throughout the Chicago region has
proven to be a successful model. CHA is 1 of 10 public housing authorities that participate in the
Regional Housing Initiative. CHA anticipates the need to commit an additional 131 vouchers in 2016.
CHA’s wait list participants make up 20% of those who were housed through RHI in 2015. In 2015,
HUD provided a grant to continue oversight administrative of RHI, which expired in June 2016. The
requested Board action will allow centralized administration of RHI to continue. Based on the
overwhelming evidence that RHI supports HUD’s goals of expanding housing options to low income
families and increasing a family’s choice to move to areas of opportunity, it is anticipated that this will be
a one-time funding request and that HUD will fund Regional Mobility Initiatives in 2017.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA- 82
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Authorization to execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning
and increase allocation of Housing Choice Vouchers for the Regional Housing
Initiative”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for
Planning for a one-year base term from August 1, 2016 through July 31, 2017 to
provide administrative oversight, including an update to the intergovernmental
structure for all participating housing authorities, selection criteria for projections and
an annual plan for the Regional Housing Initiative in an amount not to exceed
$140,000.00.
The Chief Executive Officer further recommends that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Chicago Housing Authority to distribute Housing Choice Vouchers to the
maximum extent allowable if and when a contribution is needed to continue support
of the Regional Housing Initiative, in accordance with previous Board authorizations
and HUD’s PIH Notice 2015-22.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 4, 5, 6 and 7 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
6

 John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Chico then requested the floor and made the following statement:
“Mr. Chairman, Item 13 involves UPD 47th Street as the El Zocalo developer and is a joint
venture between UP Development, LLC and Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council. I
am on the board of directors as well as the CEO of Back of the Yards Neighborhood
Council. For that reason, I am recusing myself from the vote on Item 13, and will not
participate in either the vote or any discussions of the matter.
As you know, the project was preliminarily approved by the Board in June, 2014, fifteen
months prior to my appointment to this Board, which occurred in January of 2016. The
2014 approval was subject to the developer obtaining financing, which has now been
obtained. I had no role in that prior Board approval. I have no personal financial interest
in either this developer or this project.
I would like to ask the Secretary to include this statement as part of the record and note my
recusal from participation on this matter. I will excuse myself at this time during your
consideration of this matter. Thank You.”
Commissioner Chico then left the meeting in session.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members
were present as well: Commissioners Cozzi, Markowski and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker and
Commissioners Chico and Harris were also present they were not counted toward the quorum. Committee
member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the six items appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 8 and 9 and Items 11 through 14.
(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves the FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment No. 2. CHA is
proposing a second Amendment to the FY2016 MTW Annual Plan, which includes the following items:
additional FY2016 demolition activity; additional FY2016 disposition activity; new Site-Based Waitlist
at Altgeld Murry Homes and adjustment of the Fair Market Rent thresholds to retain existing subsidy
levels for converting RAD properties. A 30-day public comment period was conducted. Announcements
for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the Chicago Defender; Chicago SunTimes and Hoy newspapers. CHA also distributed resident notices across public housing properties and
sent an email notification to HCV participants. During the public comment period, both residents and the
public alike were able to submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in
7

 the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment No. 2. CHA held two public hearings during the
30-day comment period, on June 2, 2016 and June 8, 2016. Prior to finalizing the Proposed FY2016
MTW Annual Plan Amendment No. 2, CHA gave consideration to comments received during the public
comment period. Public comments and CHA responses will be available to the public in the final plan
amendment posted on CHA’s website after Board approval and submission to HUD. CHA has complied
with the requirements of the Amended and Restated MTW Agreement and HUD regulations regarding
annual plans and amendments.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-83
The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 19, 2016
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment No. 2,
attached hereto;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2016 Moving to
Work Annual Plan Amendment No. 2 and grants authorization to the Chief
Executive Officer, the Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final
updates as deemed necessary;

THAT,

this approval of the Proposed FY2016 MTW Annual Plan Amendment No. 2
supersedes any and all conflicting language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans;
The Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2016
MTW Annual Plan Amendment No. 2 to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development upon Board approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

THAT,

(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 authorizes staff to proceed with the application process for an additional two
properties (Presbyterian Homes and Altgeld) under CHA’s Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD)
program portfolio award from HUD and authorizes the CEO to execute the applications. For Altgeld,
approval is granted to transfer assistance from Blocks 11, 12 & 13, which are slotted for Section 18
Demolition and Disposition approval, to new newly-acquired properties and/or planned development. For
Presbyterian Homes, approval is granted to enter into a one-year Project-Based Voucher (PBV) Housing
Assistance Payment (HAP) contract to begin providing Federal subsidy to the recently-acquired project.
Presbyterian Homes is also proposed as a future RAD property as a transfer of assistance recipient from
Lathrop Homes. The RAD conversion of the property will allow for flexibility to leverage financing for
property improvements as needs arise. CHA plans to submit a formal RAD application to HUD for
Presbyterian Homes and leverage the Transfer of Assistance option to provide RAD PBV assistance to
the property. Purchased by the CHA in March 2016 through a banking line of credit, Presbyterian Homes
is currently operating as a non-federal, unsubsidized property. CHA is seeking to obtain Federal subsidy
for the property in the interim via a short-term, one-year HAP contract until a RAD conversion for one or
more phases of Lathrop Homes is approved. In addition, CHA plans to add Altgeld Blocks 11, 12 and 13
to the RAD portfolio with the intention of transferring that assistance to other sites to provide housing for
CHA residents. Presbyterian Homes was approved for acquisition by the CHA Board of Commissioners
in January 2016 and formally acquired by CHA in March 2016. HUD has verbally agreed to allow a
8

 short-term PBV HAP contract to be applied to the properties in the interim until a RAD application is
submitted and a RAD HAP contract is approved and formally executed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-84
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated July 19, 2016 requesting authorization to proceed with the application process
for two properties within CHA’s RAD existing portfolio award allocation and utilize
transfer of assistance to newly-acquired properties and planned development; and enter
into a one-year PBV HAP contract with HUD for Presbyterian Homes, and execute and
deliver such documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to proceed with the application
process and utilize transfer of assistance to accommodate the following two properties into
the CHA’s RAD portfolio:



THAT,

Presbyterian Homes
Altgeld Blocks 11, 12 & 13

the Authority is authorized to enter into a one-year PBV HAP contract with HUD for
Presbyterian Homes and execute and deliver such documents and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 10 – This Number Not Used)
(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 approves Contract Modification No.13 for C-11436 with Old Veteran
Construction totaling $246,290.65. The contract modification is required to address the following issues:
repair and replace unit entry door frames; replace all smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors;
install a new plumbing riser; substitute painted wood caps for plastic laminate caps to provide residents
with more usable counter space and functional kitchens; provide materials and modifications for ADA
units as required; and remove and replace mold contaminated drywall and insulation. The project at
Major Robert Lawrence Apartments is 60% completed. The requested modifications are to ensure upon
project completion, residents will be provided with kitchens that are functional and that the building will
have a reduced maintenance future that will decrease the amount of service related disturbances to the
residents. CHA has an established internal change order process that vets potential change orders prior to
approval for additional contract values under the Significant Actions Policy and prior to seeking board
approval for those above the threshold. The CHA Change Order process involves a comprehensive
evaluation of a potential change by the change order committee comprised of CCD leadership and legal
staff.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-85
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Approval of a Contract Modification
for C-11436 Major Robert Lawrence Apartments”.
9

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification No.13 to C-11436 with Old Veteran
Construction in an amount not-to-exceed $246,291.00 for a total amount not-toexceed of $11,495,985.00
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 12)
The Resolution for Item 12 authorizes the participation in the Chicago Board of Education agreement
with The Concord Group for a term beginning July 19, 2016 and ending December 31, 2016 to provide
authority-wide Independent Cost Estimating (ICE) services. The CHA requires independent cost
estimating services for all environmental, design and construction components of its capital construction
and maintenance projects. Currently, the CHA obtains ICE services from architects and engineers as part
of a bid package and from two internal Gilbane cost estimators for all other estimates. Since the Gilbane
contract is expiring in 2016, the Capital Construction Department will lose the ability to produce complex
independent cost estimates internally. By participating in the Chicago Board of Education’s contract with
The Concord Group, the CHA can continue this routine service that is essential to everyday authority
operations through the end of the year. Prior to the expiration of the agreement with The Concord Group,
the CHA plans to release a Request for Proposals to solicit the Independent Cost Estimating services for
needs in 2017 and beyond. The Chicago Board of Education agreement with The Concord Group
provides established hourly pricing for independent cost estimating services. This established pricing
structure will provide the CHA with cost savings over the term of the agreement.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-86
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Authorization to Participate in the Chicago
Board of Education Agreement with The Concord Group to Provide Authority-Wide
Independent Cost Estimating Services”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
participate in the Chicago Board of Education agreement with The Concord Group for
a base term of five months in a not-to-exceed amount of $500,000 with no additional
option years.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 approves an Agreement to enter into A Housing Assistance Payment Contract
(AHAP) for El Zocalo; 2) Housing Assistance Payments Contracts (HAP) for (A) El Zocalo (B) Lyndale
Place Apartments, (C) Renaissance West Apartments, and (D) Eastwood Garden Apartments; 3)
Preliminary Commitment Letters for (A) Pullman Artspace Lofts and (B) Montclare Veteran’s Village of
Roseland and 4) execution of all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the
foregoing. El Zocalo will be a new construction 30-unit, six-story building for families located in the
10

 Brighton Park Community in a General Area. The building will consist of 9 one-bedroom units, 10 2bedroom units and 11 three-bedroom units. Target population for PRA units is families and individuals.
The project has secured the financing required to close and start construction. The major funding sources
for the development include approximately $6.7Million of tax credit equity from the National Equity
Fund, $2.9Million City of Chicago TIF, and a $1.8Million first mortgage from IHDA. Lyndale Place
Apartments is a 67-unit, three-story courtyard building located in the Logan Square community area.
This family property is in a General Area. The building is comprised of three one-bedroom units, fiftyseven two-bedroom units, and seven three-bedroom units. Target population is families. Habitat plans to
use 4% Low Income Housing Tax Credits in 2017 to fund redevelopment of the property. While the
property is currently stable, redevelopment will address major capital needs, provide improvements to
units and common areas and ensure the property’s long term viability. Renaissance West Apartments is
an existing 100-unit single room occupancy building located in the Logan Square community area. The
property is a contemporary five-story walk-up building in a General Area with studio units. The target
population is individuals.
In 2012, several common area improvements were completed including a
tenant lounge, computer center and new office space. Habitat plans to use 4% Low Income Housing Tax
Credits in 2017 to fund redevelopment of the property. While the property is currently stable,
redevelopment will address major capital needs, provide improvements to units and common areas and
ensure the property’s long term viability. Building amenities include air conditioning in all units, laundry
facilities, private management office, resident lounge, fitness center, and computer room. Eastwood
Garden Apartments is a 188-unit, six-story elevator apartment building located in an improving area of
the Englewood community, which is in a Limited Area. The 88% occupied building is comprised of 16
one-bedroom units, 152 two-bedroom units, and 20 three-bedroom units. Target population for PRA units
is families. Habitat plans to use 4% Low Income Housing Tax Credits in 2017 to fund redevelopment of
the property. While the property is currently stable, redevelopment will address major capital needs,
provide improvements to units and common areas and ensure the property’s long term viability. Pullman
Artspace Lofts will be located in the important Pullman Historic community in a Limited Area. The
development will combine historic renovation of two three-story, blockhouses with a new construction
infill building. The two historic blockhouses will each provide 6 units and the new construction building
will provide 26‐units for a project total of 38 units of affordable housing for artists and their families.
The unit mix consists of 3 studios, 16 one-bedroom units, and 19 two-bedroom units. Target population
for the 4 PRA units will be veterans from CHA waitlists and services will be coordinated with Catholic
Charities. PRA assistance will be provided for four units, or 10% of the total project, dispersed
throughout the property. Montclare Veteran’s Village of Roseland is a new construction affordable
housing development designed for veterans and their families located in the Roseland community area in
a Limited Area. The development will be built on land donated by the City of Chicago. It will be a
campus-style community with six new construction buildings, the largest of which will be a four-story
masonry building consisting of 48 units. There will also be five three-story walk-up six-flat buildings
along Eggleston Avenue consisting of 30 units. The total unit mix for this new development includes 27
studios, 22 one-bedroom units, 9 two-bedroom units, and 30 three-bedroom units. Target population is
homeless veterans and their families approved for VASH assistance. VASH combines Housing Choice
Voucher (HCV) rental assistance for homeless veterans with case management and clinical services
provided by the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA). VASH assistance is planned for all 78 units.
Funding is subject to VA and HUD approval.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Execute 1) an Agreement to enter
into A Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) for El Zocalo; 2) Housing
Assistance Payments Contracts (HAP) for (A) El Zocalo (B) Lyndale Place Apartments,
11

 (C) Renaissance West Apartments, and (D) Eastwood Garden Apartments; 3) Preliminary
Commitment Letters for (A) Pullman Artspace Lofts and (B) Montclare Veteran’s Village
of Roseland and 4) all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement
the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute 1) an Agreement to enter into A Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP)
for El Zocalo; 2) Housing Assistance Payments Contracts (HAP) for (A) El Zocalo (B)
Lyndale Place Apartments, (C) Renaissance West Apartments, and (D) Eastwood Garden
Apartments; 3) Preliminary Commitment Letters for (A) Pullman Artspace Lofts and (B)
Montclare Veteran’s Village of Roseland and 4) all other documents as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 14)
The resolution for Item 14 authorizes the utilization of non-federal funds to the Arthur M. Brazier
Foundation to support education and training in robotics in an amount not to exceed $2,000,000. The
Board further authorizes the CEO to negotiate the terms required to fund the programs and enter into a
Memorandum of Understanding with the Brazier Foundation to memorialize the parties’ agreements.
The Arthur M. Brazier Foundation in conjunction with the Network of Woodlawn is creating a social
enterprise designed to improve the conditions of the Woodlawn community and surrounding communities
through workforce development training and a revenue generation business model. The facility is located
at 99th and Cottage Grove. The Foundation plans to create a training facility where qualified participants
would enroll in a 50-week training in robotics and as apprentices, produce plastic cutlery. Sales in the
commercial market will be re-invested in the workforce training program. The facility, to be known as
Industrialize to Empowerment will provide training to 30 CHA residents each year.
After discussion of this matter, Commissioner Cozzi requested that the resolution for Item 14 be amended
to reflect that the Memorandum of Understanding be subject to final approval by the Board.
Amended - RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated July 19, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO UTILIZE NONFEDERAL FUNDS TO SUPPORT EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN ROBOTICS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
utilize non-federal funds to assist the Arthur M. Brazier Foundation, and other community
partners or government agencies, to support education and training in robotics in an
amount not to exceed $2,000,000.

FURTHER, the Board authorizes the CEO to negotiate the terms of and enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Arthur M. Brazier Foundation, in cooperation with local
governments, or governmental agencies, not for profits, organizations or individuals which
present a plan for developing or redeveloping property within the area of the CHA to
12

 promote uses essential to job training, job development or sound community growth. The
Memorandum of Understanding shall be subject to final approval by the Board.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and Amended Item No.14 was seconded
by Commissioner Cozzi and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer (Abstained from voting on Item 14 only.)
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington (Voted “No” only on the Eastwood
Garden HAP portion of Item 13.)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
At the conclusion of public testimony, upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by
Commissioner Washington, the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or imminent
litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 1:15 p.m.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon motion made by Commissioner Markowski and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington,
the open and closed minutes for meetings of June 21, 2016 were approved as submitted.
13

 Chairman Hooker then announced that during closed session, Commissioners discussed matters related to
Items 15 through 17.
Commissioner Washington then presented a Motion for the approval of Items 15 through 17.
(Item 15)
The Chief Executive Officer recommends the following personnel actions and requests that the Board of
Commissioners ratify such actions: 11 offer of employment; 16 promotions; 1 reclassification and 4 salary
adjustments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016–CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 19, 2016, entitled
“Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

(Item 16)
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-90
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 19, 2016, entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO SETTLE THE MATTER OF”: Georgia Jackson vs. East Lake
Management Group, Inc., East Lake Management and Development Corp., and Chicago
Housing Authority, Case No. 13 L 11334, requesting authorization to enter into a
settlement agreement in the amount of $220,000 in the matter of Georgia Jackson vs. East
Lake Management Group, Inc., East Lake Management and Development Corp., and
Chicago Housing Authority, Case No. 13 L 11334.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Legal Officer, to enter into a settlement
agreement in the amount of $220,000 in the matter of Georgia Jackson vs. East Lake
Management Group, Inc., East Lake Management and Development Corp., and Chicago
Housing Authority, Case No. 13 L 11334, subject to approval by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”).

(Item 17)
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-91
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board Letter
dated July 19, 2016 entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A
LEASE AGREEMENT FOR THE PREMISES LOCATED AT 3639 S. STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, IL 60609”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY:
14

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter
into a Lease Agreement with Park Boulevard IIB Manager LLC for the premises located at
3639 S. State Street, Chicago, IL 60609.

THAT,

the Lease Premises is approximately 5,780 sq. ft. of retail space and the Base Rent is $19 per
sq. ft. with 3% annual escalation for a total Base Rent amount not to exceed $562,890. The
security deposit shall be equal to two (2) months Base Rent ($18,303.33). The Total Base Rent
is exclusive of a proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and Common Area
Maintenance which is anticipated not to exceed $28,900 for the first term of the Lease term.
Additionally, the Total Base Rent is exclusive of any Special Assessments assessed or
incurred (if any) and any additional fees for use of additional facilities within the Building
beyond those provided in the Lease Agreement.

THAT,

the term of the Lease shall be for five (5) years commencing on or about September
1, 2016 and expiring on August 31, 2021. The Lease Agreement will be subject to a
termination option any time after the first six (6) months of the Lease term, at CHA’s
sole discretion, upon appropriate written notice.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items15 through 17 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by Commissioner
Harris and seconded by Commissioner Cozzi, the board meeting of July 19, 2016, was adjourned.

________________________________
John Hooker, Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

15

 