MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
March 20, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
March 20, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at Lathrop Boys & Girls Club, 2915 N. Leavitt, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

None

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Ms. Gilliam
commenced her report by acknowledging family and friends of Sherron Collins, a 19 year old
member of Kansas University men’s basketball team who is also from Lathrop Homes.
According to Ms. Gilliam Sherron Collins grew up playing basketball at the Lathrop Boys &
Girls Club and inspired an entire community with his skill and athleticism, even as a young
child. Ms. Gilliam wished Kansas and Sherron Collins the best of luck for the remainder of the
season. Ms. Gilliam then provided the Commissioners with an update on the Winter
Preparedness Program, demolition of the last building in Robert Taylor, the CHA’s
administrative office move to the CNA building located at 60 East Van Buren, Chicago, Illinois
60605 and the upcoming Board Retreat scheduled for April 13 and 14. Ms. Gilliam concluded
her report by wishing everyone a Happy Easter, a Happy Hanukah and a happy celebration of
spring arrival.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon introduced Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion to approve resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1and 2.

1

 Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-26
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 2, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for February 2007.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
February 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-27
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 9, 2007,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$500,000 in the matter of Jason Gorski v. CHA, et al, 03 L 12264
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $500,000 in the case of Jason
Gorski v. CHA, et al, 03 L 12264 with the CHA responsible for $465,555, or its
self insured retention, of the total settlement amount.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance and Audit Committee Meeting was
held on Wednesday, March 14, 2007 at the 626 Corporate Offices. Staff presented the
Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of February 2007, Year End
Budget Report and an update on Windows of Opportunity.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions
for Items A1 thru A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
In December 2005, the Board approved award of contract to Aon as the Broker of Record. Aon
directly and indirectly solicited requests for insurance premium quotes from 29 insurance carriers
in January 2007. Aon received quotes only from the incumbent carriers except for the Crime
coverage. Claims history is a major component in underwriting data and CHA’s recent
payments on personal injury claims were a direct cause in the increased cost of premium for both
General and Excess Liability. The incumbent, Lexington, offered an increased cost of 6% for
general liability if the CHA agreed to increase the retention from $500,000 to $750,000, rather
than a cost increase of 36% if the retention were to remain at $500,000. An analysis of CHA’s
recent claim history showed that it is unlikely that the realized premium savings would be offset
in the future by the increased retention level. ACE/USA (ACE), the incumbent Workers
2

 Compensation carrier, was the only insurance carrier to offer a quote with two options. Both
options included a rate reduction. The incumbent carrier was chosen since the pricing was a
17% decrease from last year. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves contract award to
Lexington Insurance Company, American Home Assurance Company, and ACE/USA for the
Private Managers Insurance Program’s Liability, Workers Compensation and Commercial Crime
Coverages
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-28
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 12, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to enter into contracts with Lexington Insurance
Company, American Home Assurance Company, and ACE/USA for the Private
Managers Insurance Program’s Liability, Workers Compensation and
Commercial Crime Coverages”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a contracts with Lexington Insurance Company, American
Home Assurance Company, and ACE/USA for the Private Managers Insurance
Program’s Liability, Workers Compensation and Commercial Crime Coverages”
in the aggregate amount not-to-exceed $2,500,498 for the period April 1, 2007
through March 31, 2008.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the revisions made to the Employee Handbook formerly
called the Employee Policy Guide. Some of the key revisions to the Handbook include, but are
not limited to text within sections or addition of policies associated with Employment at Will;
Anti-Harassment and Sexual Harassment Policy; ADA Act; relationships in the workplace; leave
policy and dress code.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 12,
2007, entitled, “Approval of Personnel Policy Revisions and CHA Employee
Policy Guide”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the Personnel Policy revisions and
Employee Handbook dated April 1, 2007 that are attached to the resolution,
which shall supersede the existing CHA Personnel Policy and Employee
Policy Guide dated effective June 2003 and authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or her designee to implement the revised personnel policies effective
April 1, 2007.

(Item A3)
In 2004 the Board authorized the CHA to enter into an agreement with Staubach for multiphase
real estate advisory services that included the sale of the CHA’s central and satellite offices. The
Phase I advisory services were to assist the CHA with consolidating its central and satellite
administrative offices, which has been accomplished. The Phase II services were intended for
the sale of the CHA’s central and satellite offices. At the time of the Request for Proposals and
the Board’s authorization to retain Staubach, the inclusion of the central administrative office
located at 916 – 1000 S. Wabash that housed the CHA’s administrator of the Section 8 HCV
Programs was not contemplated, and therefore, the buildings were not specifically listed as a
central office which would be sold. However, after Staubach’s services had been engaged and
further analysis was completed, it was determined that the best overall business decision was for
the office located at the Property to be part of the consolidation efforts at 60 East Van Buren. By
marketing the Property with the main central office at 626 W. Jackson, the Authority will be able
to bundle the sale into one transaction, therefore maximizing the sales price and minimizing the
time to close on the respective properties. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 ratifies
contract with Staubach Midwest, LLC for sale of 916-1000 S. Wabash.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-30
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 12,
2007, entitled “Ratification of Contract with Staubach Midwest, LLC for Sale of
916 – 1000 S. Wabash Ave.”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the inclusion of 916 – 1000 S. Wabash Ave.,
Chicago, Illinois (“Property”) in the Phase II real estate brokerage agreement with
Staubach Midwest, LLC for the sale of the CHA’s buildings located at 916 - 1000
S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, Illinois (“Property”) and to pay a 1.74% real estate
brokerage sales commission at the time of closing to be paid out of the Property’s
sale proceeds.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Committee Chair Earnest Gates then presented his Operations and Facilities monthly report. Per
Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday,
March 14, 2007 at approximately 2:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, CHA and FHP Tectonics executed Contract
Number 5118 for the second phase of the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens at 3770
South Wentworth. The resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification Number G-01 to
which provides for FHP to purchase and deliver to the work site, one hundred ninety-six
refrigerators, ranges and range hoods. These appliances were originally to be supplied by a
Resident Owned Business under a separate contract. The Resident Owned Business is no longer
in business and cannot supply these appliances.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-31
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 12, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-01 to Contract NO. 5118
with FHP Tectonics Corporation for Supply and Delivery of various appliances
related to the General Renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract No. 5118 with
FHP Tectonics Corporation in the amount of $188,482.00 for additional work
related to the general renovation of Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008) at 3770 South

4

 Wentworth. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 5118 is
$35,730,482.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B2)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, CHA solicited bids to perform interior demolition
work at Harold Ickes Homes (IL2-016). The interior demolition work will be performed within
buildings located at 2420 - 2430 South State Street and 2450 South State Street. This interior
demolition work is needed to prepare the buildings in anticipation of issuing a separate
renovation contract in the spring of 2007. The general demolition work on the buildings will
include removing damaged and deteriorated walls, and out of date mechanical, electrical and
plumbing materials from selected portions of the building. The demolition work will also
include removal of the exterior masonry walls. This will clear the way for a General Contractor
to install new materials; reconfigure floor layouts and construct new exterior masonry walls.
The General Contractor will be selected through a separate competitive solicitation to be issued
in the spring of 2007. Based on the IFB advertised in area newspapers, three bids were opened
on February 9, 2007 and NF Demolition, Inc. was determined to be the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder. Accordingly, the resolutions for Item B2 approve award of contract to NF
Demolition.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-32
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 12, 2007
entitled “Authorization to execute a contract with NF Demolition, Inc. for Interior
Demolition at Harold Ickes Homes (IL2-016)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with NF Demolition, Inc. in the amount of
$1,595,540.00 for interior demolition work at two (2) buildings at Harold Ickes
Homes (IL2-016), a Family housing development. The buildings are located at
2420–30 and 2450 South State Street. The contract will extend forty-five (45)
calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. This award is
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
Similar to Item B2, the CHA solicited bids to perform interior demolition work at Dearborn
Homes (IL2-009). This interior demolition work will be performed at 2920 South State Street
and 2940 South State Street. An IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA
website. One bid was received and opened. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves a
sole source award to G. F. Structures Corporation due to inadequate competition. The amount of
G.F. Structures bid was approximately 25% less than the estimate prepared by the Prime Design
Consultant.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-33
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 12,
2007, entitled “Authorization to execute a Non-Competitive contract with G. F.
Structures Corporation for Interior Demolition at Dearborn Homes (IL2-009)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a non-competitive contract with G. F. Structures Corporation
in the amount of $1,520,848.00 for interior demolition work at two (2) buildings
at Dearborn Homes (IL2-009), a Family housing development. The buildings are
located at 2920 and 2940 South State Street. The contract will extend forty-five
(45) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. This award is
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.
5

 Item B4)
In January 2003, the CHA entered into an IGA with the Mayor’s Office for People with
Disabilities (MOPD) to conduct accessibility reviews during the construction and rehabilitation
of CHA units to ensure that all units are built or rehabilitated in accordance with all applicable
accessibility requirements. In January 2006 the Board authorized the exercise of the first oneyear option. CHA and MOPD believe that performing unit inspections during construction will
help to ensure that the units are built according to plans and in accordance with state and Federal
accessibility requirements. The CHA has requested, and MOPD has agreed to continue to
provide this service to the CHA. However, for the new option term, the CHA desires to negotiate
an amendment to the IGA’s requirement for the total number of UFAS accessible units to be
inspected during the new option term and the payment structure so that payments are made only
for actual inspections performed by MOPD or its subcontractor. During this option term, MOPD
will, depending upon negotiations, inspect up to 170 Prototype UFAS-Accessible Units. In cases
where MOPD discovers units or buildings are not in compliance with accessibility laws and
regulations, MOPD will provide staff support to help determine and implement suggested
remedies. MOPD will also update its database periodically with its findings and forward reports
derived to the CHA’s ADA/Section 504 Compliance Manager. Accordingly, the resolution for
Item B4 approves amendment to the IGA with MOPD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-34
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 12, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to Extend and Negotiate an Amendment to the
Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Chicago Acting through the
Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities and the Chicago Housing Authority
for Professional Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the option to extend the Intergovernmental Agreement
(“IGA”) between the City of Chicago, acting through the Mayor’s Office for
People with Disabilities and the Chicago Housing Authority for a term of oneyear to conduct accessibility inspections during the construction and rehabilitation
of CHA units for an amount not to exceed $120,000 and to negotiate an
amendment to the IGA (total number of UFAS units to be inspected and payment
structure). The IGA’s new aggregate total amount will be $240,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B4 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, March 14, 2007 at approximately 2:25 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Offices. Andy
Teitelman, Deputy Managing Director of Resident Services, presented the committee with an
update on Substance Abuse Services.

6

 Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 and C3 thru C5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item C1)
In June 2005, the Board approved a contract for the redevelopment process of Parkside with the
Development Team of Parkside Associates who would be responsible for preparing funding
applications, obtaining financing, construction, and the coordination of community and
supportive services. Pursuant to the CHA’s selection of the Development Team and the
representations made in its proposal that Holsten would provide Community Supportive Services
for the new mixed income community, in December 2005, the Board authorized the CHA to
negotiate and enter into a one-year contract with 2 one-year options with Holsten to provide CSS
for Cabrini Green residents. The CSS Agreement with Holsten became effective April 1, 2006
for an amount not-to-exceed $690,000.00 for a period of 12 months with two (2) one year
options to extend the contract term. The primary focus of the CSS Agreement is to assist CHA
families that have chosen to return to Parkside. Case management services are specifically
designed to address site specific criteria and the barriers a family may face in meeting the criteria
and thus returning to the Parkside development. Based upon the availability of funding and
Holsten’s performance of the Contract to date, the CHA desires to extend the Contract for the
one-year option term. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves a one-year option of
contract with Holsten to provide CSS services to Cabrini residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-35
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 12, 2007 entitled “Recommendation to authorize the
one-year option of Contract No. 5164 with Holsten Real Estate Development
Corporation to provide Community and Supportive Services to Cabrini Green
Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the first one-year option of Contract No. 5164 (“Contract”)
with Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation for the period of April 1,
2007 through March 31, 2008 to provide community and supportive services in
support of the redevelopment at Cabrini-Green Extension North, soon to be
known as Parkside of Old Town, and to increase the Contract’s funding by an
amount not-to-exceed $348,000.00 adding it to the carryover balance available at
the end of the current contract term. The Contract’s new aggregate not-to-exceed
compensation amount will be $1,038,000.00.

(Item C2 – This Number Not Used)
(Item C3)
In 2003, the Board of Commissioners authorized the CHA to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Park District (CPD) to provide programs and services for CHA
youth. The base term was for the period of June 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005, with one,
1-year extension option. During the term of this IGA over 9,000 CHA youth have participated in
CPD’s Summer Day Camp program. The program has positively impacted thousands of CHA
youth, who otherwise may not have been able to participate due to cost. It has provided safe,
positive and structured activities during the summer months when the CHA children are most at
risk. However, the last extension option of the IGA ended at the conclusion of 2006.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item C3 approves a new IGA with CPD for FY 2007 with
extension options for FYs 2008, 2009 and 2010.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated March 12, 2007, entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter
into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

7

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to negotiate and enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the
Chicago Park District for a one year period from January 1, 2007 to December 31,
2007 for an amount not to exceed $160,000.00 with three (3) one year options to
ensure that CHA residents’ children have access to recreational programs.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves contract with Rita A. Fry for Relocation Monitoring
Services. Pursuant to the Relocation Rights Contract, the CHA is responsible to retain, with the
approval of the Central Advisory Committee, an independent auditor to monitor and track the
relocation process and ensure compliance with the Relocation Rights Contract. Ms. Rita Fry has
been the Monitor for the Relocation Rights Contract since May 2004. This monitoring
agreement is an important step in continuing progress under the Plan for Transformation. During
the term of the agreement, the Monitor will be responsible for reviewing CHA’s contractual
obligation to residents in two areas of the relocation process: (1) Phase VII of the “move out”
process for families moving out of their current developments; and (2) the “move in” process in
2007 for families moving into replacement housing at the sites where rehabilitation of public
housing and redevelopment of mixed income communities has begun.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 12, 2007,
titled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Rita A. Fry for Relocation
Monitoring Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to enter into a new contract with Rita A. Fry for the period of May 1,
2007 through April 30, 2008 for an amount not-to-exceed $291,960.00 to perform
monitoring functions required under the provisions of paragraphs 11(a) and 12(a),
respectively, of the CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights
Contract and the CHA Relocation Rights Contract for Families with Initial
Occupancy after 10/1/99 (collectively, the “Relocation Rights Contract”)

(Item C5)
The City of Chicago’s Supportive Housing Initiative, established in 2002, provides shelter for
those who cannot participate in the traditional housing market due to personal challenges, such
as illness, substance abuse, domestic violence or homelessness. This Supportive Housing
Initiative is an important component to the overall strategy in addressing Affordable Housing
and Homelessness in the City of Chicago. The CHA in partnership with the City has worked
together to identify housing opportunities in targeted communities that do not have a sufficient
supply of supportive housing. Two new projects under the Supportive Housing Initiative
included the CHA Scattered Sites located at 1310-1316 S. Spaulding and 1424-1428 S.
Trumbull. The Spaulding building, which is currently vacant and contains 18 apartments, will
contain 14 after renovation. Two units will be converted to supportive services and property
management offices, community space and laundry facilities. Four other units will be duplexed
to create 2 two-story units. After rehabilitation, there will be 11 two-bedroom units, 1 threebedroom unit and 2 four-bedroom units. Of these 14 apartments, 8 will receive Project-based
Voucher assistance from CHA and 6 will receive rent subsidies from HUD under the Shelter +
Care Program. The Trumbull building, which is also vacant and contains 12 apartments, will
contain 11 after renovation. One unit will be converted to supportive services and property
management offices and laundry facilities. After rehabilitation, there will be 8 three-bedroom
units and 3 four-bedroom units. Of these 11 apartments, 5 will receive Project-based Voucher
assistance from CHA and 6 will receive rent subsidies from HUD under the Shelter + Care
Program. The 12 Shelter + Care units will be for families who are homeless or at risk of
becoming homeless, all of whom are in need of supportive services. The 13 Project-based
Voucher assisted units will be available first for CHA Relocatees, then for families on the
general HCV waiting list and then for families on a Sited-based waiting list all of whom are also
in need of supportive services. All of the families in the development will be required to actively
participate in the social service programs pertinent to their specific need. The social services will
be provided by NWCDC, the non-profit partner, which is receiving the HUD Shelter + Care
funding assistance. There will be 2 full-time caseworkers, one at each site, between 8 a.m. and 5

8

 p.m. daily, plus emergency on-call staff 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to respond to any
potential crisis that may arise. As part of the City of Chicago’s Supportive Housing Initiative,
CHA will dispose the land and improvements at these two sites and convey a long term 99 year
ground lease to the prospective joint venture. The project funding will be provided through the
City’s Department of Housing’s Low Income Tax Credits, Donation Tax Credits, The National
Equity Fund and grants from the Home Depot and the Illinois Department of Energy.
Commissioner Gates recused from voting on the resolution for Item B5.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated March 12, 2007,
requesting authorization to (1) Allocate 13 Project-based housing vouchers to the
joint venture of Urban Property Advisors (UPA) and Near West Community
Development Corporation (NWCDC) for two CHA Scattered Sites under the
City’s Supportive Housing Initiative, 2) Submit Disposition application to U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the conveyance, renovation
and reuse of these sites, 3) Enter into a 99 year ground lease with the joint venture
and 4) Execute other documents and take such other actions as may be necessary
to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee to (1) Allocate of 13 Project-based housing vouchers to the joint venture
of Urban Property Advisors (UPA) and Near West Community Development
Corporation (NWCDC)for two CHA Scattered Sites under the City’s Supportive
Housing Initiative 2) Submit Disposition application to U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development for the conveyance, renovation and reuse of
these sites, 3) Enter into a 99 year ground lease with the joint venture and 4)
Execute other documents and take such other actions as may be necessary to
implement the foregoing.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C3 thru C5 was seconded by
Commissioner Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates (Recused from voting on Item B5 only)
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 