1

APPROVED MEETING MINUTES
Home Health, Home Services and Home Nursing Advisory Board Meeting
October 10, 2018 - 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.
Video conference locations:
525 W. Jefferson, 4th Floor, Springfield
122 S. Michigan Ave, 7th Floor, Room 711, Chicago
#22 Kettle Drive, Edwardsville
2309 W. Main St., Marion
Bellwood Location was NOT available
Call to Order
Members Present: Teresa Garcia-Fitzgerald, Chair, Tina Moore, Aishling Dalton-Kelly, Shawna O’Dell,
Cathleen Carlson, Michael Melinger, Jeffrey Workman, Pamela Duffy, Jack Kreger, Rowena Oliva and
Linnea Windel
Members Absent: Sheila McMackin
Department Staff: Karen Senger, Kendra Fabish, Elaine Huddleston, Jack Fleeharty, Siji Varghese,
Edward Pitts, Beena Varghese and Sean Dailey
Guests: Ravanna (Ray) Bey, Liz Vogt, Sara Ratcliffe, and Amanda Shoemaker
Introduction of Committee Members and Guests
Teresa Garcia-Fitzgerald, Chair called the meeting to order at 10:30 am with an introduction of Board
Members and Guests, and a quorum was established at this time.
Approval of Draft Minutes for April 11, 2018 Board Meeting {Exhibit 1}
The draft minutes of the April 11, 2018 meeting were presented to the Board for their review and
comments. A motion was made to approve the minutes, 2 nd and unanimously approved as presented.
OLD BUSINESS
Alzheimer’s disease and Related Dementias Services Subcommittee Report
Karen Senger updated the Board on the conference call she had with the three (3) Subcommittee members
over the discussion of the proposed Alzheimer’s Rules. The group discussed general qualifications or
criteria needed for a Supervisor/Manager of a facility that provides care services to clients with
Alzheimer’s and related dementia to their clients. A guideline needed to be developed to make sure that
employees/staff meet the criteria to oversee/manage the care of these patients.
The group agreed would like to add criteria or qualifications required for a program Director or Agency
Manager/Supervisor to include at least a minimum of two (2) years’ experience with some kind of
advanced dementia training. Karen Senger commented the Subcommittee would like to make a proposal to
the Alzheimer’s Association to the proposed rules to add another option under “other” to add

 requirement/certification from the Alzheimer Association National Council or completion of a dementia
curriculum as a requirement for some kind of formal training.
Karen Senger commented that the proposed rules are still with State Board of Health and then to JCAR for
1st notice.
Board members were asked to contact Karen Senger or members of the Subcommittee with any further
questions or comments.
Medicare Moratorium
Karen Senger updated the Board on the extension of the Provider Enrollment Home Health Agency (HHA)
moratoria. Medicare CMS has extended the HHA moratoria on enrollment of new Initial, Medicare HHA’s
and branch locations to cover state-wide for another six (6) months effective 7/29/2018.
No new enrollee’s or Initial HHA Medicare Surveys may be conducted, and all activities on Initial
certification and branch office expansion in Illinois may not be conducted during this time frame with an
option to extend the temporary moratoria for another additional six months. However, Home Health
Agency owners can appeal this ruling based on a shortage in their particular area of service.
Board expressed no other questions or comments.
NEW BUSINESS
Public Act 100-0432 Health Care Worker Registry Update
Karen Senger presented this Section on Public Act 100.0432 Health Care Worker Registry (HCWR) to the
Board that covers the statutory language changes on Health Care Worker.
Karen Senger commented the proposed rule changes to Section 245-99 of the HCWR background Code
was approved last April and sent to State Board of Health program for legal review. The rules are in their
final process of 1st notice to JCAR.
Karen Senger commented can update the rules when this Public Act is finalized to allow detailed review of
findings of abuse/neglect to be investigated for Home Service Workers and HHA to be added as ANT
profiles to registry.
Board expressed no other questions or comments.
Home Health Agency Initial Application Report
Karen Senger presented this information to the Board that covered the status of Home Health Agency
Initial applications for 2018, number of HHA licensed only and licensed/certified by each quarter and the
decrease number in applications and increase in number of Change of Ownership (CHOW) applications
from 2010 to 2018 for the Board review.
There is one Home Health Agency Initial application for 2018 due mostly because of the Moratoria with 26
Agency CHOW application, which identify the biggest factor. There has been a decrease in the Home
Health Agency industry due to a lot of closures, licenses waiting for Medicare Certification and Medicare
Certification not able to maintain licensure.
No comments were made to this report.
Home Health Survey Report

 3
Karen Senger presented and reviewed the current survey data and current number of HHA facilities as of
8/31/2018 for informational purposes. The Board was given a handout, which gave a detailed HHA
Summary data for Calendar year January 1st to August 31st 2018. The report gave a summary of survey
findings that were conducted during the period from January – July 2018, and the Top 10 standard level
deficiencies cited from January – August, 2018. This report also listed the new COP Emergency
Preparedness findings during the period of January – August 2018.
Karen Senger commented will try and forward this data every six (s) months to provide a bigger picture for
the Board. Chair, Theresa Garcia-Fitzgerald commented that this information was very valuable as it gave
a snap shot of the trends of what the Department is finding during their investigation.
No comments or questions were made by the Board.
Home Services, Home Nursing, Home Services Placement and Home
Nursing Placement Applications Received and Licensed Report
Karen Senger presented this information to the Board that covered the status of Home Services/Home
Nursing/Placement (HS/HN/HSP/HNP) Initial applications, number of licensed applications by each
quarter ranging from the 2015 through 2018 for Board review. The breakdown of this data report showed a
decline from 2015 as a lot of Agencies are withdrawing their applications and the number of Initial
applications coming into compliance.
This section (HS/HN/HNP) is becoming a growing program, and the Department is beginning to conduct
more detailed Surveys due to hiring of new staff. Some recent changes in the survey process is that
Surveyors are conducting more Home Visits, therefore, spending more time with clients making the survey
process more client driven then a paper driven process. Health Care Worker Background check profiles is
another area of focus and concern as this is still a frequent standard level deficiencies being cited. Another
recent trend is documents not being available in the office and staff does not have access to the paperwork
for review for whenever the surveyor arrives to conduct a survey.
No comments or questions were made by the Board.
OASIS Training Updates
Siji Varghese commented on this section in regards to the upcoming OASIS Training. This training is being
put on by IDPH and covers the latest updates that will be implemented January 31, 2019. This OASIS
Training is scheduled for October 23 – 24th at 160 N. LaSalle Room 500 in Chicago. The training
information and announcement will be posted on the IDPH Calendar of Events for further details. The
public is encouraged to spread the word and to contact Carol Phillips of the Department to register as space
is limited.
Board Membership Update
Karen Senger presented this information on the status of membership(s) and vacancies on the Board.
1. Membership vacancies – three (3) vacancies:
a. One (1) General Public/Consumer Advocate vacated by Lori Hendren (Resigned
10/18/2017); nominee none.
b. One (1) Licensed Physician position vacant since 2014; nominee none
c. One (1) General Public/Consumer/Family Member Home Service vacated by Michele
Running (Term expired 1/6/2018); nominee none
2.

New Memberships – three (3) positions
a. Linnea Windel-Representative of a Voluntary Home Health Agency, newly appointed
10/2/2018.

 b.
c.

Jack Kreger-General Public/Consumer/Family Member Home Health, newly appointed
8/22/2018.
Pamela Duffy-RN w/Home Health Experience, newly appointed 8/22/18.

Karen Senger asked Board members to submit any recommendations to the Department for nominations to
help with reaching a full Board membership in order to conduct a meeting.
Travel Voucher
Board Members were provided a blank travel voucher-mileage expense form (effective: 01/2018). Board
Members were instructed to submit their completed travel expense forms to IDPH staff Elaine Huddleston
for processing and to contact her with any further questions or concerns with their travel expense forms.
Other Comments
Jack Fleeharty commented on follow-up on clarification on the topic of the Telehealth Device and Home
Service Workers (HSWR) that was discussed at the April meeting and facilities ability to bill insurance for
use of these devices. Karen Senger commented HSWRs were briefly touched on that Home Workers could
possibly use the device as assisting with medication reminders and not able to interpret the data. There will
need to be a Medical Provision Bill as Home Service program is non-medical and cannot bill MedicaidSupplemental B for payment. Currently working on clarification with an alternative Medical Care Advance
plan with a Senior Health Department such as DOA on update.
Karen Senger commented on a frequent question brought up about the State of Illinois not having a good
picture/regulation for “Palliative Care” being provided in License entities such as Hospice, Home Health,
Hospital’s that provide Palliative Care within the State of Illinois. This is a growing topic that has been
brought up at the Hospice Board for discussion, and the Department is currently working with the Board to
develop a clear definition and training/educational material to post on the IDPH and State of Illinois
website to help educate the public with the difference between Palliative Care, Hospice Care, or both in
Illinois.
Board members shared some of their questions and concerns with this topic as this has become a growing
trend and seen as crossing over to Home Health Agencies that provide some Hospice Care to patients. The
Board agrees there needs to be more clarification/definition between the two services with more
educational opportunity as there has been a growing variance between Palliative Care and Hospice Care
services.
No other items or comments were made.
Next Meeting:
1) The next Board Meeting is scheduled for January 9, 2019 in the Springfield, Chicago, Marion,
Edwardsville, and Bellwood meeting locations.
2) Board Members were given a copy of the Board Meeting Schedule for 2019 and asked to mark
their calendars accordingly and plan on attending.
Meeting Adjourned at 11:20 am

 