MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

May 15, 2001

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority met in regular session on Tuesday, May
15, 2001 at 8:30 a.m. at Cabrini Green Development, Sojourner Truth Primary School, located at
1409-43 N. Ogden in Chicago.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Sandra Young

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; G.A. Finch, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and
the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing Session, Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer,
presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson, with the approaching two-year anniversary of
the City assuming control of the CHA, steady progress continues to be made in all aspects of the
Plan for Transformation. Staff, resident leadership and the community at large are all working
very hard so that development-by-development, progress is made toward the goal of creating
healthy, mixed-income communities. Mr. Peterson then summarized a few of the items on the
meeting agenda which would be coming before the Board for approval including approval of
Horner Phase II, approval of Archer Courts Phase II and development of a 70-unit senior
building in Darrow Homes. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by thanking the Board for their
continued guidance and leadership and encouraged the residents to become participants for the
planned redevelopment in their particular area.

1

 A presentation by the Development Team of Brinshore-Michaels then followed. The
development team provided the Commissioners with a synopsis of their experience,
qualifications and resources for effectively implementing the Horner Phase II redevelopment
project. According to the team, Brishore-Michaels will manage the process to include but not
limited to: eliciting community and stakeholder participation in defining a vision; overseeing the
development of a Master Plan; structuring of a financial plan; securing commitments for the
necessary private and public resources to fund the development and create training and
employment opportunities for residents.
A motion was then introduced and seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately one (1) hour to discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective
negotiating matters, security and personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. The Chairperson thereupon
introduced an Omnibus Motion to approve the following three (3) items discussed in Executive
Session:
(Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 2, 2001 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Reports for April 2001.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for April
2001.

(Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 17, 2001
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of Dean
Kutz vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 93 WC-64088 and pay a settlement amount
of $175,000.00.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel or his designee to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Dean Kutz vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, 93 WC 64088 and pay a settlement amount of $175,000.00.

(Item No. 3)
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-62
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 13, 2001
requesting authorization to execute a Letter of Intent to convey land on Archer
Avenue utilizing the City of Chicago HomeStart Program;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Letter of Intent to convey to the City of Chicago land
located at Archer Avenue and Cermack Road, for the development of Archer
Courts Phase II utilizing the City of Chicago’s HomeStart program.
This
authorization is contingent upon CHA's approval of the overall development
proposal, which shall provide for permanent public housing units within the
development.

2

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1, 2 and 3 was seconded by Commissioner
Emanuel and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Davis, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, presented the following
report. Per Commissioner Davis, the Committee met on Wednesday, May 9, 2001 at 1:00 p.m.
at the 626 Corporate Office. Staff presented the Committee with the monthly Grants &
Foundation and Treasury & Cash Budget Reports. Staff also presented a briefing on the 2000
Audited Financial Statement from Deloitte & Touche.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Items A1 through
A4 recommended for approval by the Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 726, represents a unit of CHA employees in
the job title of Garage Attendants and Chauffeurs. The Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA)
currently covers two chauffeurs and reflects current language found in other CBA's previously
negotiated.
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-63
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated April 2, 2001
requesting authorization for the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter a
successor Collective Bargaining Agreement with the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, Local 726
covering the period of January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2003,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Collective Bargaining Agreement between the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America,
Local 726 on the terms described in the Board letter for a period covering January
1, 2001 through December 31, 2003.

(Item A2)
The purpose of this Amendment is to transfer the three (3) projects 132, 138 and 142 from the
development stage on ACC C-1150 with The Habitat Company, to operations and management
on ACC C-1014 with the Authority. These projects have been completed and are to become part
of the Authority's inventory of units.
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-64
Amendment No. 114 to the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014
for Project No. IL06P002132, 138, and 142.
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority (therein called the “Local Authority”), and the
United States of America, (herein the “Government”), as of the 13th day of June,
1972, entered into a certain Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 to assist in the
development of certain low-rent housing, identified therein as Project No.
IL002001 through 11, 13 through 27:A, B, C, 28 through 37:A, B, 38 through 41,
42:A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H, 43, 44:A, B, C, D, 45:A, B, 46 through 64, 66
through 74, 76, 78 through 85, 90, 91, 93, 94, IL06P002095, 96, 102, 103, 105,
110, 111, 112, 115, 116, 118 through 122, 124 through 134, 136, 138, 139, 141,
142, 145, through 147, 149, 151, 156 and 157, 162, 163, (MROP), 164 through
173, 176 through 178, 180, 182, 184, 194, 205 through 212.
3

 WHEREAS, the Local Authority and the Government desire to modify the terms of said
Annual Contributions Contract;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into an amendatory agreement with the
Government, modifying the terms of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014
and the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee is hereby authorized and directed
to execute Amendment No. 114 of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 in
quintuplicate and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed
to attest and impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each
such counterpart. The aforesaid amendatory agreement shall be in substantially
the attached form.

(Item A3)
The CHA's Plan For Transformation has resulted in a significant change in mission/strategy for
the agency, which has necessitated a substantial reduction in force of its full-time maintenance
and repair staff. The Authority now needs to reduce its administrative burden and overhead costs
associated with operating and maintaining the warehouse facilities to house inventory of surplus
and obsolete equipment and supplies. In addition, the Authority continues to incur costs
associated with the maintenance and/or storage of surplus fleet passenger/heavy-duty equipment
vehicles. Since staff determined it is in the best interest of the Authority to eliminate the holding
costs for these inventories, a Request for Proposal to procure professional auctioning services
was advertised. Of the seven (7) proposals received and technically evaluated, discussions were
held with the three (3) top respondents found to be in the competitive range. As a result of this
process, Rick Levin & Associates was found to have provided not only the best proposal, but
also the best pricing structure for the CHA. The following resolution, therefore, grants approval
to dispose of surplus and/or obsolete inventory and to negotiate a contract with Rick Levin for
pre-auction expenses for the warehouse auctions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-65
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 30, 2001
entitled, "Authorization to dispose of surplus and/or obsolete inventory and to
award contract for professional auctioning services to Rick Levin & Associates,
Inc.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the CHA to dispose of surplus and/or
obsolete warehouse inventory and surplus fleet passenger/heavy duty equipment
vehicles; and

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and execute a professional auctioning contract with Rick
Levin & Associates, Inc, in a total amount not-to-exceed $100,000.00 for preauction advertising/security expenses for the warehouse auctions plus (a) 10%
commission of the gross sales for warehouse inventory and a (b) 5% commission,
without other costs, of the gross sales of surplus fleet passenger/heavy duty
equipment vehicles; for a two-year base period with a one year option to extend,
which option is subject to HUD approval.

(Item A4)
The Authority's request for funding in the amount of $400,000 was approved by the MacArthur
Foundation for implementation of the CHA's Communication Strategy. The resolution for Item
A4 authorizes acceptance of this grant to implement said Communication strategies.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-66
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 1, 2001, entitled, “Authorization to accept a grant from
the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to implement
communication strategies, and to negotiate and execute the Grant Agreement
therefore”;
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority hereby
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designated representative to accept a
grant from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to implement
Communication Strategies, and to negotiate and execute the Grant Agreement
therefore.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A4 was seconded by
Commissioner Bone and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee Report was also accepted in total.
Due to Commissioner Gates’ absence, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee,
Commissioner Davis presented the following report. Per Commissioner Davis, the Committee
met on Wednesday, May 9, 2001 at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Staff from the
Chicago Community Development Corporation briefed the Committee on plans for Archer
Courts Phase II utilizing the City of Chicago's Home Start Program. Staff from Catholic
Charities also briefed the Committee on recommended plans for the development of a portion of
the Darrow Homes Site
Commissioner Davis then introduced a motion to adopt the resolution for Item B1 and mentioned
the detailed report presented earlier in the meeting by the Development Team of BrinshoreMichaels.
(Item B1)
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 11, 2001,
entitled “Request for approval of the recommended Development Team and
authorization to enter into negotiations for a Master Planning and Predevelopment
Services Agreement for Henry Horner Phase II" and concurs with the
recommendations contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the recommendation of Brinshore-Michael
as the development team for the Henry Horner Phase II redevelopment project
and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into
negotiations with the Brinshore-Michael Development Team for a master
planning and predevelopment services agreement for the Henry Horner Phase II
site.
A request for authorization to enter into the negotiated Master Planning and
Predevelopment Services Agreement will be presented to the Board of
Commissioners for approval at a future date.

5

 Motion to adopt said resolution was seconded by Commissioner Emanuel and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Recused:

Mamie Bone

Nays:

None

There being no further questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Leticia Peralta Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion to adopt items B2
through B5 recommended for approval by the Operations Committee.
(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 authorizes the issuance of a Letter of Intent to Catholic Charities.
The purpose of the Letter of Intent is to negotiate and execute a long term land lease thereby
permitting the Catholic Charities development team to proceed with the development of a 70 unit
elderly building on the Darrow site. Of the 70 units, approximately 75% would be for CHA
residents. The plan for an elderly building at this location is compatible with the HOPE VI
redevelopment plan. The Letter of Intent will contain a provision that allows the CHA to
terminate its commitment at any time so that if negotiations with Catholic Charities are not
successful, the Letter of Intent will have no impact on other redevelopment activities
contemplated on this site. The Letter of Intent will also be subject to the delivery of an
acceptable plan coordinated with the Master Plan for the development, and execution of a
Development Agreement and Ground Lease satisfactory to both parties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 4, 2001
requesting authorization to execute and issue a Letter of Intent to negotiate and
execute a long term land lease for the development of a portion of the Darrow
Homes site in favor of a yet to-be-formed not-for-profit corporation affiliated with
and controlled by Catholic Charities, and concurs with the recommendation
contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute and issue a Letter of Intent to negotiate and execute a long
term land lease for the development of a portion of the Darrow Homes site in
favor of a yet to-be-formed not-for-profit corporation affiliated with and
controlled by Catholic Charities, in exchange for $1. The Letter of Intent shall be
valid through August 31, 2001, with two (2) one-year options, subject to annual
Board of Commissioners approval beginning on August 31, 2001.

(Item B3)
In September 1999, We're Cleaning, Inc. was issued a Purchase Order (P.O.) for cleaning and
disinfecting vacant apartment units at Taylor Homes for the Make-Ready Unit Repair Program.
The contractor exceeded the amount of the P.O. by $49,000. Since the units were cleaned
satisfactorily and have been used to house residents displaced by the demolition of several
buildings, the resolution for Item B3 approves payment of the additional $49,000 to We're
Cleaning Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board Letter dated April 9, 2001
requesting Approval of Purchase Order (P.O.) Amendment No. 1 (Increase of
$49,000.00) to We’re Cleaning, Inc. to include the cost for work performed that
6

 exceeded the original P.O. amount of $99,999.00. We’re Cleaning, Inc. was
asked to meet CHA’s timeframe to make units ready for resident relocation,
including the provision of all materials and labor to complete the work at Robert
Taylor Homes. We’re Cleaning, Inc. was requested to proceed with the cleaning
and disinfecting of vacant apartment units at Robert Taylor Homes. The work was
satisfactorily completed. However, the scope of the work exceeded the amount of
the Purchase Order by $49,000.00. P.O. Amendment No. 1 is to provide for the
cleaning and disinfecting of additional units at Robert Taylor Homes as an
amendment to P.O. #27036 (increase of $49,000.00);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Purchase Order Amendment No. 1 in the amount of
$49,000.00 for We’re Cleaning, Inc. P.O. No. 27036 for cleaning and disinfecting
of vacant apartment units at Robert Taylor Homes.
The original Purchase Order price of $99,999.00 will be increased by $49,000.00.
The new total Purchase Order price will be $148,999.00. All work has been
completed.

(Item B4)
In order for the Authority to maintain compliance with various environmental and industrial
issues and in an effort to be responsive and to take a preemptive approach to potential
environmental concerns, a Request for Qualification was advertised in January 2001. An
evaluation panel consisting of members of the Capital Construction Division was established to
review and rank the proposals. Ten (10) of the 11 proposals received a rating of 70 points or
higher, meriting further evaluation. Based on the consensus rating, the panel then examined the
cost proposals submitted by the two (2) top-rated firms and found the prices to be fair,
reasonable and within industry standards. The resolution for Item B4, therefore, requests
approval for contract award to Carnow Conibear & Associates and I T Corporation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board Letter dated April 25, 2001
requesting authorization for the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter
into two (2) two-year base contracts with a cumulative contract value of $250,000
for the delivery of Authority-Wide Environmental Professional Services pursuant
to RFQ 20104 with the following firms:
NAME OF FIRM
1.
2.

CONTRACT AMOUNT

Carnow, Conibear & Associates, Ltd.
I T Corporation
Cumulative Contract Amount:

$125,000
$125,000
$250,000

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into two (2) two-year base contracts with an option for a third
year with a cumulative contract value of $250,000 for the provision of
Professional Environmental Services pursuant to RFQ 20104 with Carnow
Conibear & Associates, Ltd. and I T Corporation. All work will be performed in
accordance with RFQ No. 20104 and is subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with CHA’s General and Special Conditions therein.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves modification to the existing contract with Peoples Energy
Service. In November 1999, the CHA entered into a two-year contract with Peoples Energy
Service to purchase natural gas supplies. In addition to enhancing the Authority's ability to
financially track gas costs through its normal fiscal year, this action would also allow CHA to
take advantage of gas prices that can be locked at this time at costs that may be significantly less
than costs that could be anticipated for the months of November and December.

7

 RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 8, 2001
entitled “Authorization to Modify Contract No. 9311 with Peoples Energy Service
Corporation” for the purpose of extending the contract term for an additional two
(2) months, from November 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001, for the CHA’s
purchases of Wellhead natural gas supplies.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to modify Contract No. 9311 with Peoples Energy Service Corporation
extending the contract term for an additional two (2) months, from November 1,
2001 to December 31, 2001, for an amount not to exceed $7,000,000.00, subject
to HUD’s approval.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Items B2 through B5 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney (recused from voting on Item B5 only)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee Report was also accepted
in total.
Due to Commissioner Young’s absence, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee,
Commissioner Bone presented the following report. Per Commissioner Bone, the Committee
met on Wednesday, May 9, 2001 at 3:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Commissioner Bone
then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Items C1 and C2 recommended for
approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves award of contract to Leadership Council for Gautreauxstyle mobility counseling. Leadership Council administered a program known as the Gautreaux
Assisted Housing from 1976-1998 which was funded mostly by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development. The Authority proposes to contract with Leadership Council to provide a
more comprehensive counseling services to families and encourage mobility moves to
opportunity areas. The implementation of this program will also increase housing opportunities
for families selecting Section 8 as their permanent housing choice.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 21, 2001, entitled "Authorization to enter into a
contract between the Chicago Housing Authority and Leadership Council for
Metropolitan Open Communities, Inc. for Gautreaux-Style Mobility Counseling”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a sole-source contract substantially in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit A, and subject to HUD’s approval, with Leadership Council for
Metropolitan Open Communities, Inc., for a Gautreaux-Style mobility counseling
for a two year period, in an amount not to exceed $750,000.00.

8

 (Item C2)
A Funding Agreement between the CHA and Senior Housing Advisory Council (SHAC) is
required by HUD Regulations for funding of resident council activities. SHAC was organized to
serve as the resident advisory organization to the CHA on all matters vital to the interest of the
residents living in the CHA's senior housing developments. Per HUD regulations, the Funding
Agreement includes assurances that all SHAC expenditures will not contravene provisions of law
and will promote serviceability, efficiency, economy and stability in the operation of the housing
authority. The Agreement requires that SHAC account to the CHA for the use of the funds and
permits the CHA to inspect and audit the SHAC's financial records related to this Agreement.
The resolution for Item C2, therefore, grants approval to negotiate and execute a Funding
Agreement with SHAC.
RESOLUTION NO 2001-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 27, 2001
entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the
Senior Housing Advisory Council (“SHAC”).
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Senior
Housing Advisory Council for the period commencing January 1, 2001 and
ending December 31, 2001, in an amount not to exceed Three Hundred Thousand
Dollars and no/100 ($300,000.00).

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Mooney and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee Report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill
Custodian and Keeper of Records

9

Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chairperson

 