Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
December 18, 2012
CHA Central Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

Question/Comment

Response

How can you implement a cost of living increase
for social security recipients, only on the South
Side with WCDC?
1

2

3

In October 2012 the Social Security Administration indicated that monthly
benefits will increase 1.7% in 2013 due to the Cost of Living Adjustment
(COLA). This increase went into effect February 1, 2013. All public housing
residents receiving Social Security (SS) or SSI must receive a new rent
calculation due to the increase in income. Public housing agencies are
required to factor in COLA when determining SS and SSI annual income.

Pauline Wesley

Evelyn Rodriguez &
Christinia De La
Rosa

George Blakemon

The rent adjustment is applicable for all participants receiving SS or SSI – not
solely for participants living in properties managed by WCDC or on the South
Side.
Thank you for your comment.

For the past two months we learned that
Commissioners are leaving. We want to thank
Commissioner Ponce, we look forward to
working with the new commissioners.
To the citizens of Chicago and residents of CHA,
I can read, I can think, I would like to let you
know that I live to serve, I don't serve to live.
Reading this agenda, listening to the members of
the Board speak, I decided to read the agenda.
It is unacceptable, for the Executive Director to
give contracts out. These contracts should
always be bid on. I advocate for everything inhouse, if you are going to do it out of house, you
should put it out to bid. M/W/DBEs mean
something.

When the CHA decides it needs the services of an outside vendor, it follows
the applicable procurement rules and regulations.

[Bell rings] That bell that you're ringing shows
disrespect. I've been heard. Some people will
read this agenda, I would like to wish you all of
you happy holidays. Read your agenda and you
will see something that is evil and wrong.

1

 4

5

Dennis O'Neil

Tamika Holt

Education is an important component in CHA’s Plan Forward. The CHA will
continue to support the Chicago Public Schools, including Smyth School.

I am with a community organization in the UIC
area called Connecting Four Communities. I
want to talk about education needs and the
changing demographic in the area. The area has
been growing in population (by 104%) and is
diverse. It has Roosevelt Square and the area is
served by a CPS school called Smyth
Elementary. The school is 100% black and lowincome, but the community is diverse. We have
worked with people in our community including
all the Principals in the area to advance a plan to
develop a new high school. Given the CPS fiscal
situation, it is a hurdle. But, access to education
is restricted. We would like to see Smyth
become a school for the entire community.
There have been tremendous improvements with
the school. We would like to see a high school
built in the Roosevelt Square redevelopment
area. We have two architects developing a
conceptual plan for that area. I have
demographic information that I'll leave with Mr.
Woodyard.
I would like to congratulate the Commissioners
who are retiring. I have a question about the
general item number 1, about the IG guidelines.
The question was asked by Commissioner
Ponce, who does the IG answer to? The answer
was the Audit Committee. I would like to know,
who does the Audit Committee answer to?

The Audit Committee is held accountable by the full Board of Commissioners.

2

 