STAFF REPORT 06-26-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6290
ADDRESS: 468 PRENTIS STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT: WARREN-PRENTIS
APPLICANT: MICHAEL THOMPSON, ARCHITECT
STAFF SITE VISIT: 06/19/2019

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

PROPOSAL
The building located at 468 Prentis Street is a 2½-story multi-family residence constructed in c. 1916 as a singlefamily home. The house is clad in red brick with carved stone and wood detailing. Slate shingles are present at the
gable ends of the multi-gabled roof. The asymmetrical façade features a large front porch and a two-story curved bay.
The roof is covered in asphalt shingles. A small rear addition is located off the northeast corner of the house toward
the alley which, according to building permit records, was constructed around the same time as the house. The
building permit records also reveal the house was converted from a single-family dwelling into a four-unit multifamily residence in 1943. A utilitarian porch exists at the rear entrance to the dwelling.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to erect a new 3-story addition at the
rear of house per the attached drawings. The addition is part of a rehabilitation to transform the existing five-units
into a 3-family dwelling in accordance with zoning allowances. The following scope items are included in the
proposal:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Removing existing rear open porch structure: The existing back porch facing the back alley would be demolished.
Basement: (3) new proposed egress windows with below grade areaways.
First floor: An attached two-car garage off the rear with an interior stair going up to level two. A small covered porch
and decorative column at the back-alley entrance. A new sliding glass door and small balcony added to the back of the
existing house. Note that the existing and un-finished cinder block wall of the existing rear addition is being re-clad.
Second floor: A “great room” addition over the garage below. This includes activating the existing rooftop over the
existing 1916 addition and adding a new access door and a metal decorative guardrail. Note that this flat roof originally
had a “sun porch” according to the City records from 1916.
Third floor: A master bedroom suite added with an outdoor deck with planting beds. Note that this project per City
Roof profile: The master-bedroom suite would have a low slopped shed style roof to align in height with house’s
existing ridge.
Site work: The garage has two required off-street parking spaces and one outdoor space. The new paving next to the
alley would be pervious using precast cement units that will allow rain water to absorb. Three ground-mounted
condensers in the side yard and screened from view with evergreen shrubs. The three added basement egress areaways
will be flush with grade and will be designed to not be seen. A rain barrel will be incorporated to collect roof top rain
water for plant irrigation.

 •

Exterior materials: The existing house exterior materials include re-claimed brick, carved stone accents, slate shingles
at the upper gables, asphalt roof shingles, and decorative wood trim. The new proposed materials would include a
matching brick base, metal horizontal siding (color to match flat gray slate), and trim to match the existing house
colors.

STAFF OBSERVATIONS
As noted in the Warren-Prentis designation report, the district is “urban and mixed-use in character with
institutional buildings, single and multi-family residential buildings, and commercial buildings within its borders.”
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1)

Height. The single and multiple family residential structures in the Warren-Prentis Historic District, excluding any
structures altered in height, range from two (2) to four (4) stories tall, often on high basements. Residential buildings
constructed as single-family detached houses are two (2) to two and one-half (2-½) stories tall. Additions to existing
buildings shall be related to the existing structure. Other building types in the Warren-Prentis Historic District are between
one (1) and four (4) stories in height. Parapet walls of one-story contributing commercial buildings increase wall height
where they exist. A full-story rooftop addition sits atop the former industrial building at 460 West Canfield. The former
Detroit Central High School has a high basement and its tower rises to a height of one hundred forty-seven (147) feet.

(2)

Proportion of buildings' front facades. The typical front facade of a single or two-to-four unit residential building in the
Warren-Prentis Historic District is approximately as tall to its eaves as it is wide. The Terrace Building on West Hancock
Avenue and Third Avenue is significantly wider than tall. Multistory apartment buildings that contribute to the WarrenPrentis Historic District are generally taller than wide, with the exception of larger apartment blocks that appear as tall as
wide. Those apartment buildings that are u-shaped in plan, which may result in configurations that are wider than tall, have
the component end facades of the "U" facing the street that are taller than wide. Prominent side elevations of apartment
buildings on corner lots are often wider than tall. Commercial buildings on Woodward Avenue, Cass Avenue, West
Warren Avenue, andThird Avenue contribute to a continuous horizontal streetscape where they abut. Other commercial
buildings dispersed throughout the district range in proportion, from small scale buildings that are as tall as wide to larger
buildings that are wider than tall. The Detroit Police Precinct Station at 4747 Woodward Avenue is wider than tall. Other
buildings constructed for institutional use, including those for religious, philanthropic and educational organizations, vary
in their proportions, depending on function, age and style.

(3)

Proportion of openings within the facades. In residential buildings, openings amount to between twenty percent (20%)
and thirty-five percent (35%) of the front facade, with the majority ranging from twenty-five percent (25%) to thirty
percent (30%). Most window openings are rectangular and filled with double-hung sash windows, although it is not
uncommon for a grouping of windows that are individually taller than wide to fill a single opening which is wider than tall.
Some buildings display arched openings, depending on style. Commercial buildings generally have a higher percentage of
openings, often displaying large storefront windows. Some industrial-type windows still remain in the district, but many
were replaced when the functions of those buildings changed, such as the former industrial buildings at 460 West Canfield
Avenue and the former Goodrich Building at 4809 Woodward Avenue.

(4)

Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. While the Warren-Prentis Historic District is composed of several building
types with many sizes and types of windows, the overall impression is one of regular, repetitive openings arranged
horizontally within the facades. A repetitive flow of storefront openings, where they exist, create a rhythm along the
commercial frontage. Early modern-style buildings, such as 60 West Hancock Avenue and the Detroit Police Precinct
Station at 4747 Woodward Avenue, exhibit irregular window arrangements but these are nonetheless arranged horizontally
in rows. Many late Victorian buildings in the district display arrangements of openings that offer more variety in type and
placement, which are typical for the age and style of the buildings.

(5)

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. In the Warren-Prentis Historic District, the spacing of buildings on streets is
generally determined by function. On east-west streets that are primarily residential, lot sizes and setbacks from side lot
lines determine the spacing of buildings. There is a general regularity in the widths of subdivision lots from one block to
another. Detached single dwellings, two (2) to four (4) unit flats, and small apartment buildings on east-west streets,
whether they are centered on their forty (40) foot to fifty (50) foot lots or placed slightly closer to one side, create a regular
rhythm along the street. Along Second Avenue, the spacing of larger apartment buildings with limited space between them,
and the few remaining intermingled Victorian houses, create a rhythm along the streetscape. The Terrace Building at the
corner of West Hancock Avenue and Third Avenue creates a flowing rhythm around that corner, as do the commercial
buildings on corner lots. Where later buildings, including full-lot apartment buildings and larger commercial or industrial
buildings, replaced earlier buildings, they are frequently built up to the front lot lines, creating an inconsistent rhythm.

 Where building demolition has occurred, such as on the north side of West Forest Avenue between Woodward Avenue and
Second Avenue, the original rhythmic progression of buildings has been disrupted.
(6)

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Porch and entrance types relate to the type and style of the building. On
residential streetscapes, projecting porches are major elements; when in a row they create a rhythmic progression along the
street. Entrances on multistory apartment buildings generally do not project; they frequently recede into the facade and
have no consistent placement from one building to the next. Consequently, a strong rhythm is not created. Where
commercial buildings line the streets in numbers, an irregular rhythm is created by multiple entrances.

(7)

Relationship of materials. The majority of residential buildings are faced with brick, often combined with masonry and/or
wooden trim, architectural elements and details. The house at 110 West Forest Avenue is the only wood frame building in
the district. Many storefronts of brick commercial buildings have large plate glass windows. The majority of roofs visible
from the street are covered in asphalt, but slate roofs also exist; although one metal roof and several bronze balconies exist
in the district, they are atypical. Wrought iron balconets and railings ornament several apartment buildings. Tile is used on
the facade of the former Goodrich Building at 4809 Woodward Avenue.

(8)

Relationship of textures. The major textural relationship is that of brick laid in mortar, often juxtaposed with wood and/or
smooth, carved or molded cast stone elements and trim. Textured brick and brick laid in patterns creates considerable
interest where it exists. Where they exist, slate roofs have particular textural value, as does the one metal roof. Asphalt
shingles generally have little textural interest, even where they purport to imitate some other variety of roofing.

(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors, such as red, yellow, brown and buff, predominate in wall surfaces. Natural
stone colors also exist, including gray, beige, brown and red. Roofs, the majority of which are asphalt shingle, are in
natural colors, such as tile and slate colors, natural and stained wood colors. Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings
derived from classical precedents, particularly those of Colonial Revival, Neo-Colonial and Renaissance Revival styles,
generally have woodwork painted white, cream, or in the range of those colors. Colors known to have been in use on
similar buildings of this style in the Eighteenth or early Twentieth Centuries may be considered for appropriateness.
Buildings of Vernacular English Revival styles generally have painted woodwork and window frames of a dark brown or
cream color. Victorian buildings display a broad color palette. Where they exist as decoration visible on the front facade,
tile and stained glass contribute to the artistic interest of the building. The original colors of any building, as determined by
professional analysis, are always acceptable for that building, and may provide guidance for similar buildings.

(10) Relationship of architectural details. The architectural elements and details of each structure generally relate to its style.
Some individual buildings within the Warren-Prentis Historic District represent the pinnacle of period styles. These
buildings include the Richardsonian Romanesque former Detroit Central High School; the Neo-Classical former First
Church of Christ, Scientist; the Neo-Gothic First Unitarian-Universalist Church; the Italianate/Second Empire former
Thompson Home for Old Ladies; the Colonial Revival former Butler House; and the Early Modern/Arts and Crafts former
Children's Aid Society. Characteristic of late Victorian period houses are multiple roof shapes and wall planes, a variety of
textural and coloristic effects, and decorative wooden elements. Apartment buildings are generally rich in cast stone or
wood stylistic detail; porches, window frames, cornices, and dormer windows are commonly, although not always, treated.
Characteristic elements and details displayed on Vernacular English Revival-Influenced buildings include arched windows
and door openings, steeply pitched gables, and towers. Artistic touches, including stained glass and tile, provide artistic
decoration. Prairie style and Arts and Crafts style buildings feature wide porches and overhangs. Commercial buildings
along Woodward Avenue, Cass Avenue, Third Avenue, and Warren Avenue range in style from Neo-Georgian to Art Deco
and Art Moderne. Buildings constructed for religious purposes include the late Gothic Revival First Unitarian-Universalist
Church; the Neo-Classical Revival former First Church of Christ, Scientist; and the English Revival style former Berea
Tabernacle. In general, the district is rich in late Victorian architectural styles, and in late Nineteenth and early Twentieth
Century Revival stylistic expressions of the Modern movement.
(11) Relationship of roof shapes. The Warren-Prentis Historic District is primarily composed of residential buildings
displaying a variety of roof shapes relating to style. Common are the use of multiple roof shapes over Victorian buildings.
Commercial buildings throughout the district, as well as many two (2) to four (4) unit dwellings and apartment buildings,
have flat roofs that are not visible from the street. However, several apartment buildings bear parapet walls with stylistic
elements, such as gables and decorative pediments, creating interesting silhouettes.
(12) Walls of continuity. The facades of buildings with common setbacks on residential streets, as well as the continuous
facades of commercial buildings, where they exist in rows, create the primary walls of continuity in the district. Mature
trees, where they are planted in rows either on the berm lying between the public sidewalks and curbs, or in rows on the
front lawns of a number of adjacent properties, create a strong secondary wall of continuity. Public street lighting, sign
posts and parking meters generally do not contribute to a wall of continuity because of their different styles, heights, and
irregular placement throughout the district.

 (13) Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The overall impression is that residential
streetscapes running east-west between Cass and Third Avenues are abundantly planted whereas the north-south
streetscapes are not. Typical treatment of individual residential properties is a shallow, flat, front lawn area in grass turf,
subdivided by a straight walk leading to the front entrance. Garages, where they exist, are located at the rear of the lot off
the alley. While a pattern of continuous front lawns exists on West Forest Avenue and Prentis Avenue between Second and
Third Avenues, low front yard fences and hedges alongside lot lines exist on Prentis Avenue between Cass and Second
Avenues. Hedges along front lot lines are common on West Hancock Avenue between Second and Third Avenues. Hedges
along the front lot lines on Second Avenue commonly screen apartment buildings from the public right-of-way. The front
yard of the building located on the southwest corner of Second Avenue and West Forest Avenue, known as the Forest
Apartments, is fenced with wrought iron pickets between brick wall piers. In general, there is a wide range in the type of
fencing, with black wrought iron and chain-link common. Driveways are rare, although a few exist where apartment
buildings and commercial buildings have off-street parking in the rear. Smaller apartment buildings, such as those on
Hancock Avenue between Second and Third Avenues, generally have shallow front lawns. The full-lot buildings are
sometimes built up to the front lot line, abutting the public sidewalk. A few moderate to large apartment buildings have
front courtyards that are attractively landscaped with grass turf and plantings. The one large-scale Victorian school
building in the district has a graded, broad grass turf front lawn in keeping with its scale and importance, and a large paved
parking lot in the rear. Other buildings constructed for institutional use have shallow lawns. Commercial and industrial
buildings are generally placed on the front lot line abutting a wide sidewalk. The placement of trees on the tree lawn or in
planters between the public sidewalk and curb varies from block to block and street to street, and is not consistent. There is
a lack of street trees in some blocks. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the area and period. If American Elms
are planted, they should be disease resistant. Granite curbs should be retained where they still exist.
(14) Relationship of open space to structures. The Warren-Prentis Historic District has as its main open space vacant lots
resulting from building demolition, sometimes in use as parking lots. Large open spaces are associated with the one largescale late Victorian school building in the district, in the form of a large front lawn of graded grass turf and a rear parking
lot. Front lawns are shallow, where they exist. One (1) to four (4) unit dwellings usually have rear yards.
(15) Scale of facades and facade elements. The Warren-Prentis Historic District is part of a neighborhood of small to
moderately scaled single-family houses and two (2) to four (4) unit dwellings, small to moderately scaled apartment
buildings with a few u-shaped apartment buildings of large scale, and low to moderately scaled commercial, institutional
and industrial buildings. There is one large scale late Victorian school building in the district. In general, the individual
buildings in the Warren-Prentis Historic District were designed with elements and details that are appropriately scaled,
dependent on the style and function of the building.
(16) Directional expression of front elevations. Directional expression of front elevations is a result of the style of architecture
of individual buildings or the juxtaposition of several buildings. Most single family houses and two (2) to four (4) unit
residential buildings in the Warren-Prentis Historic District give the impression of neutrality in directional expression,
although elements above the roofline in Victorian buildings may add a sense of verticality. Multistory apartment buildings
are usually vertical in directional expression; they tend to have side elevations that are horizontal in directional expression.
Where they exist in rows, commercial buildings are horizontal in directional expression but, individually, may be neutral.
The Terrace Building at the southeast corner of West Hancock Avenue and Third Avenue is horizontal in directional
expression.
(17) Rhythm of building setbacks. One (1) to four (4) unit residential buildings on east-west streets are uniformly set back from
the front property line, resulting in a consistent rhythm. Small scale apartment buildings generally follow a uniform set
back consistent with the one (1) to four (4) unit buildings on the east-west streets. Larger or full-lot apartment buildings
generally have less set back or no set back from the front property line and, where located on east-west residential streets,
break the uniformity of the former set back patterns. Apartment buildings on Second Avenue have shallow set backs; those
on Third Avenue extend from the front lot line. Commercial buildings frequently have no set backs from the front lot line,
but result in a uniform flow where they abut other commercial buildings of similar set back.
(18) Relationship of lot coverages. The relationship of lot coverage for those buildings contributing to the Warren-Prentis
Historic District is generally a result of building type and lot size. The single and two (2) to four (4) unit residential
structures primarily located on West Forest Avenue and Prentis Avenue range in lot coverage from approximately fifteen
percent (15%) to approximately forty-five percent (45%), most falling into the twenty-five percent (25%) to thirty-five
percent (35%) range. Apartment buildings throughout the district range from approximately fifty percent (50%) to ninety
percent (90%) lot coverage, and the larger buildings generally extend to the rear lot lines with either light courts or central
courtyard spaces. Commercial buildings contributing to the Warren-Prentis Historic District have ranges of lot coverages
from approximately fifty percent (50%) to one hundred percent (100%). They are typically placed at the front lot line, but
may not entirely fill the lot at the rear. Lot coverage for those buildings constructed for institutional use in the district
varies considerably.

 (19) Degree of complexity within the facades. The facades within the Warren-Prentis Historic District range from very simple
to quite complex, depending on style, but are generally straightforward in their arrangements of elements and details.
Overall, there is a low degree of complexity.
(20) Orientation, vistas, overviews. Buildings generally face the streets with some exceptions. The east-west streets are more
heavily residential while the north-south streets contain a greater number of uses. High density residential uses dominate
Second Avenue as well. The Landmark Tower of the former Detroit Central High School can be seen from beyond the
borders of the district. The former Berea tabernacle Church and 818 West Hancock Avenue are physically separated from
the rest of the district by the widening of Third Avenue at its northern end.
(21) Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Front facades of buildings range from completely symmetrical to asymmetrical,
depending on architectural style. A great variety of architectural styles and building types exist within the district, although
most are classically inspired and, thus, tend to be symmetrical.
(22) General environmental character. The Warren-Prentis Historic District is a dense, urban, mixed use district primarily
composed of residential structures but also containing commercial, institutional, and religious buildings as well as vacant
land, its buildings reflect the area's development as one of rapid growth, intensification of land use, sudden decline and
recent revitalization. The vitality of the district is a result of the mixture of uses and the correspondingly diverse physical
appearance of its architectural resources. Its proximity to Wayne State University, the Cultural Center, and the Detroit
Medical Center result in its being a locus for human activity.

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Commission find the project scope, as proposed, to be appropriate as it meets the following
Secretary of the Interior’s Standard for Rehabilitation:
• 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its
environment.
However, staff recommends that the Commission issue this COA with the following conditions:
• Applicant to submit all building material and product cut sheets/brochures for staff review prior to the
issuance of the COA.
• HDC staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final construction documents prior to
the issuance of the COA.

 

Wayme?tate Uni'irle 
EJepart-?mie 

's 9-.

i?itmm @i


M49

lag-Wave Mum-{?
mi?

Timers -.

. :mtt?m Lin?
ngfeg - 
shagga? CPU .6
?agrtmer?ts 



. 

 

 


.5.

I. ?35SILEEI. 4 



- 
.1 .
vi ?x??tx .441 
. t?tiffn5-
I'll; . 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


dual-Ii ulc I [I'll I Iii! . . .. Engagin .. JHI .IHJ - um in. ?In 

 

 

 

 

 

r..IhIf?ill I flit"i?hI-hull-Ii? Fvllilylli -
.

 

 

 

 . I I EI.I I I I I..- ..I I I

.I .II. .I

- I . II .1.. .I. II. I liq. flail -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ila-lull . Ii?iil..Fllr
. . I ..l.ILFL II I IL. Fr..1..I uln. .l-I ii. I li?ili?l . I ..II. in . ahTI. I114  

 

 

 

I.I. II If lI.rIrl IliI?ll I hill-I'll! lI-l' .- I.Ill - ?Ill- II. lull - II
II I I I I. .iltrnI.I Lil: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?h

I.
1



. 3+
-- fl.






 

 

lcil . .I l  l1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


-.
1329A

i?



 

 



Dwelling

l?l
?umn

mm:

*Erick

Eu

'hri?k add

ll garage-?uild aun 

    

ilgi stun} raga:-
itl?ln Lu bu- uF-?L?d
Cit?crfl.

1?

REPORT

11.68 E39rof 11 and
Prentis Gf 12

431239212..? 

?5911-4511ng (2 to 
WEE-ink van



Ell-Innu-
a- h-

nil-kt innur-lur- ?lt r.
mcon?'rt E?bi lJn?!

1%ng ?59313 HF


LGT Fri-2 ?

1

 

 

1921 Sanborn Map

 


Nl'
3. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FM.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

    

 

 

PRENTI 

 



 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

"3 

I




 

 

0:1





 

 

 

 

 

I'r-ll'ur4:53" 
We 5r gnaw?
I .r 133-"?

PERKINS

'i?i'i?mra?n?4&3?

d?

 

 





 

 

 

 

Hr F?f?f??f
'5 425? ?355 JPRENTI AV3:9" --

 

 

 

 

  



      
 



. ?Ii-?u 
.. . 

'1?921 Sanborn 

ap
Ti

REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

May 24, 2019

Historic Preservation
Detroit Planning & Development Dept.
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue Suite
Detroit, Michigan
48226

Regarding:
Historical District Commission review for:
Proposed addition to 468 Prentis Street, Detroit, Michigan

Attachment: Completed HDC Application and drawing package for the Detroit Historical District Commission
review

Dear HDC:
The following is a description of the new work and information being submitted to the Historical District
Commission for a proposed addition and renovations to the existing historic house at 468 Prentis Street:
•

Description of the existing conditions:
This property includes the historic house at 468 Prentis and is located in District 74 “Warren-Prentis”.
This parcel is zoned “SD-1” Special Development District with small scale and mixed use. Both
adjacent parcels on each side are multiple-family units and have this same zoning.
There is a garage addition in the back that dates back to 1916. It is now half the original size as it was
apparently damaged in a fire and partially demolished.
This house was originally designed and constructed as a one-family house and was approved by the
City to be converted to four units in 1943.
When recently purchased by Deborah and John Gilchrist, the house was divided into five separate
rental units. Please see the existing condition photographs in this letter.

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

From City Zoning records:
•

Description of the project: The new owners propose to completely renovate the interior, add a threestory addition off the rear/alley-side of the house, and divide the house into three separate units. The
owners would reside in the two top levels and rent the basement and first floor units.
No new work is planned for the front or sides of the exterior of the house. The entire exterior addition
would be on the rear alley side and not be visible from Prentis Avenue
Please see the photo from Prentis and the study model photo that describes this.

•

Detailed cope of the new work:
The proposed new project scope includes the following:
o

Removing existing rear open porch structure: The existing back porch facing the back alley
would be demolished. This is in poor structural condition with a hole in the roof and does not
appear to have historic significance.

o

Basement: The basement is a total gut and rebuild with bedrooms added that require three
new proposed egress windows with below grade areaways.

o

First floor: An attached two-car garage off the rear with an interior stair going up to level two. A
small covered porch and decorative column at the back-alley entrance. A new sliding glass door
and small balcony added to the back of the existing house. Note that the existing and unfinished cinder clock wall is being re-clad.

o

Second floor: A great room addition over the garage below. This includes activating the
existing rooftop over the existing 1916 addition and adding a new access door and a metal
decorative guardrail. Note that this flat roof originally had a “sun porch” according to the City
records from 1916.

o

Third floor: A master bedroom suite added with an outdoor deck with planting beds. Note that
this project per City Zoning requires that 0.07% of the total parcel size of 4,305 sq. ft. (301.35
sq. ft.) be reserved for the minimal required recreational space. Recreational space that can be
counted includes open porches, yards, and the open rooftop decks.

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

•

o

Roof profile: The current house roof meets the City Zoning maximum height of 35’-0” (Midpoint of eave & ridge dimension from grade in Section 61-11-175 [5]). The master-bedroom
suite would have a low slopped shed style roof the align in height with house’s existing ridge.

o

Site work: City Zoning requires 1.0 space per unit of off-street parking. This is lowered to 2.0
by seeking a waiver to lower it to .75 per unit based on being located to a high-frequency public
transportation system. 3 units would translate to 2.25 and the City “rounds-down” on fractions.
Therefore, the garage has two spaces and one outdoor space. The new paving next to the alley
would be pervious using precast cement units that will allow rain water to absorb. Three groundmounted condensers in the side yard and screened from view with evergreen shrubs. The three
added basement egress areaways will be flush with grade and will be designed to not be seen.
A rain barrel will be incorporated to collect roof top rain water for plant irrigation.

o

Exterior materials: The existing house exterior materials include re-claimed brick, carved
stone accents, slate shingles at the upper gables, asphalt roof shingles, and decorative wood
trim. The new proposed materials would include a matching brick base, metal horizontal siding
(color to match flat gray slate), and trim to match the existing house colors.

Existing condition photographs:
Included are photographs of all four sides of the building as follows:

Front view facing Prentis Street

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

East side view

Rear view from back rear alley
Note that the existing first floor wood porch is slated to be demolished as it is in poor structural
condition and in the way for the back addition/expansion.

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

West side view
•

View from Prentis Street:
This includes the following street photo and study model photo to show the site lines and visibility of the
proposed new addition from Prentis Street:

Current view looking at house from Prentis Street

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

Study model view from Prentis Street
The design intention is to not be able see the proposed new addition from Prentis Street. The new
addition should be only visible from the alley and back side only.
The limited tips of the new back roof additions would be slightly visible plus a new guardrail would be
visible as it would be required on top of the existing Level 2 rear addition flat roof to the right.

Proposed new brick for addition

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

Existing slate shingle siding next to brick

Proposed metal horizontal siding
This proposed galvanized steel siding will first appear silver when installed and will gradually turn gray
as it oxidizes with a resulting gray patina to the zinc coating. This flat gray patina will eventually match
and complement the existing gray colored slate shingles.

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093
•

Design intent and architectural precedent:
The new addition is designed to complement, and not copy, the original historic building in Midtown.
The proposed stepped three-story structure, with its similar material coloration, expansive glass, and
angled roof, is meant to be thoughtful blending of the respected historical structure with a
contemporary urban living expansion. The house is being redeveloped with modern interiors, HVAC
systems, life safely components, and sustainability features.

Study-model massing
Note that this model shows the new work scope as “white colored” for studying the exterior massing
and refer to the proposed color description in this letter for the actual look.

El Moore two blocks away
The highly visible and successful El Moore Lodge & Residences at 624 West Alexandrine features a
similar shed-type new roof structure added with horizontal metal siding and large glass sections.
The front street facade was kept original which is similar to this proposed project.

 REPORT

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093
•

Proposed colors and materials:
o
o
o

o
o
o
•

Brick: To match the existing reclaimed brick facades on the house.
Siding: The new proposed siding is galvanized steel siding to patina to flat gray to match the
slate shingle siding.
Windows: Certain existing windows that are in poor condition on the existing facades to
remain, will be replaced with historically appropriate replacement windows. This includes
replacing the glass block at the front basement window. The new windows on the back addition
will be energy efficient clear glass with dark colored frames (color to be finalized).
Guardrails: Added guardrails will be decorative metal rails to meet code and approved by the
HDC. The final design is not yet finalized and will be submitted in the future.
Garage door: This will be a pre-finished steel flush insulated sectional overhead door. The
color would match the house trim color.
Roofing: All the new roofs are rubber membrane type roofs and not visible.

Attached information: The drawing package for DC review and approval includes:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Site Survey & Proposed Site Plan
Basement & First Floor Plans
Second & Third Floor Plans
Building Section, Elevations, & details
Elevations & Details

Please consider granting historical approval for this project and let us know if you have any questions or
comments or require any additional information.
We look forward to presenting this proposed project at the upcoming and added June 26th. HDC meeting.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Thompson AIA
Copy: Deborah & John Gilchrist, Owner of 468 Prentis Street house

  

REPORT



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 i? JDJJ . (I
2- 2 . 
,2 SEWER 
- 2.2 - 13.5' PUBLIGJ ALLEY 2.2 
FOUND I- i? Y. . . 2:2- 
I - ?15' 
1 +1 2r2 
- (RAIN) SET 2 
41.00? (REM) I I EEJSIEILED I
g2 2. I I CONCRETE 
JJ 40
$0.335 1 I I TO
I
12?: NI Ii 2 - .
:22. i GRAVEL -- 
2? It; is IN FEET 
221 I ASPHALT . 
J-14PROPERTY DESCRIPTION
MAP LOT 11 :2 I THE LAND SITUATED IN THE DETROIT. COUNTY OF WAYNE, STATE OF 
0T To SCALE) - P0 2? MICHIGAN, IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
2 . lixr .-
A E3 22C2 1 THE EAST SSAKIFEET OF LOT 11 AND THE WEST 2TK2FEET OF LOT 12; EPA
2I 2 SUBDIVISION. AS RECORDED IN LIBER 132 OF PLATS. PAGE 
NO VISIBLE MARKED PARKING ON PORCH I WAYEN COUNTY RECORDS. 
SITE i" PT 13PARCEL AREA 8'9 2% 
I 3 I 'l
SOUARE FEET #460 IN. C)
I .3 STORY E35
I RESIDENCE 222
BENCHMARK .5 m. 2- 2.2 2 a 
ARROW ON HYDRANT ACROSS THE STREET FROM SUBJECT PROPERTY 2 In?; RESIDENCE ?25 E3 
ELEVATION 626.29? (NAVD SS DATUM0?31 JI 8 (O 1.111gum LIJ
22222STORY 2.: I ?a 2 
BASIS OF BEARING Rf 
NORTH EAST. BEING THE NORTHERLY LINE OF 5 w:
PRENTIS AVENUE. AS RECORDED. 
I 
- I
SURVEYOHSNOTES . 2 21-2 @922 4
i 2 I I "q LIT:
I. THE UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHOWN HAVE BEEN LOCATED FROM FIELD Egg-- -2 .. 13.9 I $22- 3% 
SURVEY INFORMATION AND EXISTING DRAWINGS. THE SURVEYOR MAKES GUARANTEES THAT THE UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHOWN COMPRISE ALL SUCH I g5 13% g. 
UTILITIES IN THE AREA. EITHER IN SERVICE OR ABANDONED. THE SURVEYOR i PORCH a; 53:3 
FURTHER DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHOWN ARE THE EXACT LOCATION INDICATED ALTHOUGH HE DOES CERTIFY THAT THEY I S22 22. 
ARE LOCATED AS ACCURATELY AS POSSIBLE FROM INFORMATION AVAILABLE. . P2. 21.2; I 2 3522. 22:. I,
THE SURVEYOR HAS NOT PHYSICALLY LOCATED THE UNDERGROUND UTILITIES ..22 . 2:22.22. 3% B. 
OTHER THAN THE STRUCTURE INVENTORY SHOWN HEREON. 53 .222; a: 
SR I 5322?: 
2. A CURRENT TITLE POLICY HAS NOT BEEN FURNISHED AT TIME OF SURVEY, N, a; 
THEREFORE EASEMENTS ENCUMBRANCES AFFECTING SUBJECT PARCEL I 2 SALE a
MAY NOT BE SHOWNESSA
I Inga 3
LEGEND i ?ag ..
LL.
2- SET 1/2? REBAR WITH CAP P.S. 53499 ., FOUND . NETTIU DO (RAM) 2 222 5
1/2 REBARI I ALSO 23333 3
(RAM) RECORD AND MEASURED DIMENSION . - .. .. In- :2 .
(R) RECORD DIMENSION I I JJ . 2.22? 
2 -I . :2
(M) MEASURED DIMENSION 2' 2" ?522
GROUND ELEVATION E2 . CONCRETE WALK m. 
UTILITY POLE 22- 8 CERTIFICATION
Jr lx'l'I-J" .- 
SOUARE CATCH BASIN If}? TO DEBORAH GILCHRIST:
.1 
PARCEL 2.22:2 - 252;. THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THIS MAP OR PLAT AND THE SURVEY ON WHICH IT
PLATTED LOT LINE 2 II - IS BASED WERE MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 2015 MINIMUM STANDARD 9 2:22 -
BUILDING . CONCRETE CURB DETAIL REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND TITLE SURVEYS, JOINTLY S. 2; $2
ESTABLISHED AND ADOPTED BY ALTA AND NSPS, AND INCLUDED ITEMS 1. 2. 2-. 
CONCRETE CURB 'TABLE A. THEREOF. THE FIELD WORK WAS ?EDGE OF CONCRETE (GONG) 60. RIGHT OF WAY PLET . 
a) ..
EDGE OF GRAVEL ASPHALT DATE OF PLAT OR MAPOVERHEAD UTILITY LINE 
GAS LINE 23 222
q.
SEWER LINE 222 
- .23; 2:2
MINOR CONTOUR LINE II 2 3 Jo
MAJOR CONTOUR LINE 2.
BUILDING AREA 2% 
2 2 
ASPHAL . DANEL JACKSON a 
PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR
2? MICHIGAN LICENSE NO. 532499
:21 .- . .- CONCRETE SITE 22555 GRATIOT AVE. EASTPOINTE. MI 48021 1
BENCHMARK djocksonDkemtec?SurVey.Com
8" WATER
1 OF 1 SHEETS
33E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THUMPSUN
DESIGN
GRDUP LLE:

 

 

1210 Wing AvenQ??

Royal Oak, Michigan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 
. i2? T252
2/
:2 I PE:
1+ 222.22Kurd22222 
m?r 

. 222* DA 

4N BEARD 
A RPM-F:
E234 IOTOI . .. .. 1
WIS 2 (7-52? {52252

.AJJE JJ 
ID
2 R2 I-
i2 2227222
I-JI WI RI 

 

 

2f?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

45% WWII-22B

25;; j;
IE ISA 
V4.42. vr' I I I

JJ: f-x?

2221i? riff-225.22: ?mm-r?

 

 

AIIJIJM JJ

 

.42;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24121
'12

 



 

 

INDEX OF DRAWINGS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sheet No. Drawing Title:
1 Site Survey Preposed Site Plan
2 Basement First Floor Plans
3 Second 82 Third Floor Plans
4 Building Section, Elevations. 82 Details
5 Elevations Details

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed
?Renovations to

468
Prentis St.

Detroit, Michigan

 

 

 

 

Egg .3: WARE.
1222:3222 TI



 

Site Survey
i 8:

Proposed

I Site Plan

 

 

 

 

ISSUED FOR:

0 BIDS .
C2 PERMITS
CONSTRUCTION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I-II
REPORT - - 412-14:22IZ'e?Li342?41 12 alt-44 12 4?7 -- i 124544? - ip.111 I1 . 4 i 3.457Vi?? I

UN

Hi

 

 

 

 

 

 

.ESIGN
GRULIP LLB

 

 

 

 


14:23 "-42
i

#451

 

 

 

 

   

14:4. 1210 Irving Avenue
4- Royal Oak; Michigan

248 933 5093 

1E

 

 

 

 

 

F43 c? P42144414: ?a 41?s :11 I p43i??ARCirxizg-
14111 . I 

. . .-.. .\Jlr

 

 

 

 

 


kuII:

 

 

II 

 

 

 

 

22.1?112/4144? 1114;.1 i . . :31 
.24 42441452, 421.2444 - 124/ (24? . a 44414;; 4245i 2452/4122 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I I WWi?i 49H 4H6101~Jii74 4/4141? i 154424-11, @9133r1121?; 952. 44112..
FILL w- 4414 . I14 91112.1. (M4151) I 3- 4 12 4441.4. 

11 6'7 15* 13/6371424442}

L411 172/9

 

 

 

 

 

5-111: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

I: ?Eyr? . I, ?LinWMEZA i I _Ii 3: 11.144 . 4/5345?; . 
. 

 

- wa?ngrm 
n- - 
9:

 

 

. Proposed .
1 Renovations EmmyPrentis St.
I I I I iW II-9M'Ch'ga..4-. 34mm h?n?Lm" 'r 14.44413;- . - . 42-2-2 

 

 

 

 

 

 


_tWHu-Ew- 
?r?i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?3?41:



 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$6531] 4: 13,5414:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

441.124? 1214'? 114:1?:
4:41;

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

amid
a?um113E WM 155
i3. 414ng?; 1.321 1? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

95' 11"?3/ I - 
II . A min?iBasement 
First Floor
I Plans
g?ngIIm H1  i I. 
- II unf'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L. T: I

 

 

 

 

M4242 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.ISSUED 1:042:
gag 5?5 - - - #152 41 
w1..1a142a141a 124/ . 5'93 .
A?ia'ztairiw 4:4 A . - .. PERMITS

- . 
. - - .. 44442441haw. :Ly? 11WH4 ..M

QGWLE If 1,2144% mlim? . . . .. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14-4.1




FIECBT rumac?s?? PWAM

954114.45; mgiwa?i

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT - I I 5 . - 



DESIGN

 

 

54:? 
$6 FHA LIT. i . . 

ihi?lmgg WHMW . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I GRDUP LLE:

 

 

 

 

TX . E1210lrving Avenue
. -iRoyall Oak, Michigan
.5.- 3 . - 243 933 509A/5,454?91: I I I: 1 I 
Jmi??r I 

i: 7:135} 
?ag: EM l/ . . . 
(gym -. V2 -. 3 6995595; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 



..-- ?j - 
3): .- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ewe-m raw . -- - -.
'?Edr-?Proposed

 

 

.. Renovations to
no: Li I
Jn/i. 468
9'51va 56*; I
au? 1 . Iw?g} if;

1 - -- Prentis StDetrort, Michi _..-magma

 

 

 

 

 

II
 fl1?lkf

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21:539qu Wain? ..
Hula. Fagwaw?f 
:9 24/ if?!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

m-"i . 



.. . .415? _rn-

 

 

 

 

 

 


2 15,551? . . 



.n - WW- de@fl

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E~Al?thL?Lry
Rwy?? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.-
r57 9H 1 How: ES
i no

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hf 553' 5343'? af?x?W; . . II-:
L. a I of? 1 5:13:33Elevations

Details

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NE. V57 

 

 

 

 

5'75 Inga

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . 1

Ex 1691?le 36 .. 
FL: 515255.33. I 1?5 ?35LT: MIL: F1 Fit?.-5- 

1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISSUED FORBIDS
.. .. . . . . . . .. . . CONSTRUCTION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . . Mix-Hi5/4? pug-:55

 

 

REPORT

@itg nf gaetmir

CITY COUNCIL
HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD

204 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-3487 Fax: (313) 224-4336

e?mail: 

Proposed Warren?Prentis Historic District

Final Report
By a resolution dated June 28, 2000, the Detroit City Council charged the Historic Designation
Advisory Board, a study committee, with the of?cial study of the proposed Warren-Prentis
Historic District in accordance with Chapter 25 of the 1984 Detroit City Code and the Michigan
Local Historic Districts Act.

- The proposed Warren-Prentis Historic District consists of 120 primary buildings covering an area
containing approximately 320 acres in the North Cass Corridor, approximately two to three miles
from downtown Detroit, and generally located west of Woodward Avenue, south of West

*Warren, north of Prentis and east of Third Avenue. It is urban and mixed~use in character, with
institutional buildings, single and multi~farnily residential buildings, and commercial buildings
within its borders. The Warren-Prentis Historic District was listed on the National Register of
Historic Places in 1997 as part of a multiple property resource listing of the Cass Farm Survey
Area. 

Boundaries: The boundaries of the proposed historic district are as shown on the attached map,
and are as follows:

Beginning at a point, that point being the intersection of the centerline of vacated Fourth Avenue
with the centerline of West Warren Avenue; thence east along the centerline of West Warren
Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Woodward Avenue; thence south along the
centerline of Woodward Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West Forest Avenue;
thence west along the centerline of West Forest Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of
the north-south alley parallel to and between Cass Avenue and Woodward Avenue and located at
the rear of the east property lines of Lots 15-20 of Stimson?s Sub of Park Lots 55-58 (Liber 1,
Page 246); extended northward; thence south along the centerline of said alley to its intersection
with the southern property line of Lot 15 of Stimson?s Sub of Park Lots 55-58 (Liber l, Page
246), extended east and west; thence west along said property line to its intersection with the
centerline of Cass Avenue; thence south along the centerline of Cass Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of Prentis Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Prentis Avenue to its
intersection with the centerline of the north-south alley parallel to and between Cass Avenue and
Second Avenue and located at the rear of the properties on the west side of Cass Avenue; thence
south along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with the northern boundary, extended

REPORT

2

east and west, of Lot 3 of the Cass Farm Sub of Block 99 (Liber 1, Page 272); thence east along
said property line as extended to its intersection with the centerline of Cass Avenue; thence south
along the centerline of Cass AVenue to its intersection with the southern boundary, extended east
and west, of Lot 3 of the Cass Farm Sub of Block 99 (Liber 1, Page 272); thence-west along said
property line as extended to its intersection with the centerline of the north-south alley parallel to
and between Cass Avenue and Second Avenue and located at the rear of the properties on the
west side of Cass Avenue; thence south along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with
the'centerline of West Can?eld Avenue; thence west along the centerline of West Can?eld
Avenue to its intersection with the western boundary, extended north and south, of Lot 21 of the
Cass Farm Sub of Block 99 (Fiber 1, Page 272); thence north along said property line to its
intersection with the centerline of the east?west alley between West Can?eld and Prentis
Avenue; thence west along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with the north-south
.alley between and parallel to second boulevard and Cass Avenue and located adjacent to the
properties on the east side of Second Avenue; thence south along the centerline of said alley to
its intersection with the centerline of the east-west alley running seventy feet south of the
north property lines of Lots 17 and 18 of the Cass Farm Sub of Block 99 (Liber l, Page 272);
thence west along the centerline of said alley, extended westward, to its intersection with the
centerline of Second Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Second Avenue to the
centerline, extended east and west, of the east-west alley between west Can?eld Avenue and
Prentis Avenue; thence west along the centerline of said alley to its intersection with the
centerline of Third Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Third Avenue to its intersection
with the southerly property line of Lots 5 and 12, extended east and west, of Crane Farm Sub rear
concession of PC. 247 (Liber 60, Page 58); thence west along said extended property line to its
intersection with the centerline of Fourth Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Fourth
Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West Forest Avenue; thence east along the
centerline of West Forest Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Third Avenue; thence
north along the centerline of Third Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West
Hancock Avenue, now vacated; thence west along the centerline of vacated West Hancock
Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of vacated Fourth Avenue; thence north along the
centerline of vacated Fourth Avenue to the point of beginning.

HISTORY:

The Warren-Prentis Historic District represents one of the last, largely intact neighborhoods of
upper and upper-middle class, late nineteenth and early twentieth century housing in Detroit. The
historic district was home to a number of leading Detroit industrialists and businessmen, as the
Warren-Prentis Historic District was the place to which the ?rst wave of upper and upper-middle
class professionals moved from the city in the late' 1800s. They commissioned many of the
leading architects of the time to design their residences and the following wealth of early
twentieth century apartment housing and apartment buildings. The Warren-Prentis Historic
District, which also includes commercial, institutional, religious and other types of buildings as
well as vacant land, re?ects the area?s developmental history of rapid growth, intensi?cation of
land use and sudden decline following the Great Depression.

REPORT

3

Land included in the Warren-Prentis Historic District was originally known as the Park Lots, the
Cass Farm, and the ones/Crane Farm, all of which were subdivided in a consistent manner into
generous size lots. The initial division of property into long, narrow ribbons, fronting on the
Detroit River and extending back several miles, followed the land ownership patterns established
by the French settlers in the 18th century. The Park Lots are located between Woodward and
Cass avenues and were sold at auction to the highest bidders in 1807. The Cass Farm, located
between Cass and Third, was initially subdivided by Lewis Cass during the 1860s and later by
his family in the 1870s. The Jones/Crane Farm, located between Third and the alley west of
Fourth, was initially owned by DeGarrno Jones, a former Mayor of Detroit, and later came into
the possession of lavius Crane. The farm was platted in the 1850s. The?area west of Third
was subdivided into much Smaller lots, with a corresponding change in demographics.

Due to technological advances and the growth of Detroit during the 18605, the Warren-Prentis
area became an accessible and popular area for development. The origination of the streetcar
lines along Woodward Avenue (which extended to present day Alexandrine by October, 1863)
and Third Avenue (which extended to present day Hancock by OCtober, 1873) facilitated faster
and more accessible transportation to Warren-Prentis Historic District, located in Detroit's ?rst
streetcar suburb. It was also during this time that the City of Detroit was rapidly growing with
"the new industrial opportunities created by technology. In turn, this new growth and
technological advancements brought with them an expanded wealthy professional class. It was
this class who chose to escape the pollution, noise, crime, and overcrowding in the cities by
moving to the "suburbs."

This move to the "suburbs" created the ?rst wave of deve10pment in the Warren-Prentis Historic
District. New development consisted primarily of single family dwellings built by the upper and
upper-middle class professionals between 1880 and 1895. Many of Detroit's leading businessmen
and their families commissioned the well-known Detroit architects to design impressive houses,
which in turn showcased their new wealth. Some of these Detroit professionals included:
William A. Butler, Jr., a prominent Detroit banker; John F. Dodge, an auto magnate and co-
founder of Dodge Brothers automobile company; David MacKenzie, the principal of Central
High School; William C. Boydell, the vice president and treasurer of the Boydell Brothers White
Lead and Color Company - a major national producer of paints, oils, etc.; George Loomer,
lumber dealer; Charles Day, a partner in the chair manufacturing ?rm of Smith, Day and
Company; Frederick A. Smith, broker with Steel, Smith Company; and Perry McAdow, a
society man who made his wealth mining Montana gold.

Among notable architects of single family residences in the Warren-Prentis Historic District were
Almon Clother Varney and Donaldson and Meier. All houses designed by the architects in the
district were in the Late Victorian styles, as it was the p0pular aesthetic of the day. Varney
designed six houses, two each in the Romanesque, Queen Anne, and Victorian Eclectic styles
and Donaldson and Meier designed two houses in the Queen Anne style. 

As apartment style living became popular in the late 18805, the construction of duplexes and

REPORT

4

small scale apartments soared while single family construction nearly ceased. Again, the wealthy
invested in this area and built numerous luxury, small scale apartment buildings, commissioning
the best architects in Detroit. The most notable architect of this type of building was Baxter and
O'Dell. That ?rm designed six apartment buildings in revival styles, including Beaux Arts,
Jacobethan, Elizabethan, and Neo-Georgian. The architectural partnership of Pollmar and Ropes
designed two small scale apartment buildings, in the English Domestic Revival and Classical
Revival styles.

At the turn of the century, the composition of the Warren-Prentis Historic District began to shift
as commercial and industrial deve10pment, mainly auto related, increased throughout Detroit and
within the district, intensifying the use of land. The Warren-Prentis Historic District became a
prime area in which to house the rapidly expanding working class population in the early 1900s
its proximity to automobile production, inner-city transportation routes, and the ample size and
depth of the lots required by larger, high-density apartment development. In addition to the larger
scale apartment buildings constructed to meet the needs of this burgeoning population, single
family dwellings were converted into duplexes and ?ats while the small-scale apartment
buildings were further subdivided.

Commercial development also expanded in the Warren-Prentis Historic District due to the
automotive industry and increasing population of the Cass Farm area. Five of the fourteen
contributing commercial and industrial buildings were speci?cally developed in response to the
automotive industry, including auto repair and service shops, parts suppliers, and garages.
Commercial buildings were located initially on the north?south streets and. later began to ?ll in
On the east-west side streets as zoning did not preclude businesses from doing so. Commercial
and industrial construction, at its peak from 191.5 to 1930, all but ended as the Great Depression
wrecked economic havoc on Detroit and the Warren-Prentis Historic District. The district
experienced a period of steady decline from 1930 until 1945.

The Warren-Prentis Historic District was home to several charitable and educational institutions
as well. The Neo?Romanesque of?ce building at 51 W. Warren (1926/27), originally housed the
Detroit Community Fund, its neighbor, at 71 West Warren, Opened as a clinic and headquarters
building of the Children?s Aid Society in 1931, the Thompson Home at 119 West Hancock also
played an important role in the charitable life of Detroit, and the Detroit Federation of Women?s
Clubs, a civic, cultural and philanthropic organization founded in 1895, moved to the Butler
House at 4811 Second Avenue in1916.

The building most identi?ed with Wayne State University, ?Old Main,? was originally Detroit
Central High School. At the time of its completion in 1896, it was hailed as ?One of the ?nest
academic high school buildings in the country and was widely quoted by other cities as the ?nal
word in high school architecture.? Richardsonian Romanesque in style, it was designed by the
consulting architects to the Detroit Public Schools, Malcomson and Higginbotham. It became
known as the College of the City of Detroit in 1923 and in 1934 it became Wayne State
University.

REPORT

5

Located in the central section of the city west of the Cultural Center, Wayne State University has
adapted several existing structures in the district to academic and of?ce uses over the years.
These buildings included homes, of?ces, warehouses, churches, and apartment buildings,
amongst them the Mackenzie House, a Queen Anne style residence located at 4735 Cass, now
housing of?ces, the Spanish-Colonial style building at 818 Hancock, a former printing plant
currently used by the Biomechanical Engineering Department, and the Nee-Classical Revival
style First Church of Christ Science (1917), converted for use as a theater.

ARCHITECTURAL DESCRIPTION:

The Warren-Prentis Historic District contains one of the largest, mostly intact concentrations of
upper-and upper-middle class, late nineteenth and early twentieth-century housing extant in
Detroit. The district primarily-contains single family residences and small to moderately scaled
brick apartment buildings. Other uses, including commercial, religious, health care related,
philanthropic and educational, were contemporary with this residential growth. The district's
overall character has been maintained due to its density of buildings, many of which have been
minimally altered over time.

A grid street pattern was applied to the subdivision and development of the Cass Farm Survey
Area. Main thoroughfares run north~south and the side streets run east west. The north?south
streets leading to and from downtown are broad, ranging in width from four to nine lanes, with a
predominance of commercial and institutional uses and a few larger, single family residences and
apartment buildings. Conversely, the east?west streets are narrow, ranging in width from two to
four lanes. The uniform setback of primarily small and medium scale residential buildings, the
greater presence of trees, and the fairly uniform scale of the buildings along the side streets
contribute to their more intimate character. The southwest portion of the district, including
Prentis, the 600 block of West Forest and portions of Second Avenue, consists mainly of small to
medium scale residential buildings, creating a density of buildings. The remainder of the district
contains larger scale, institutional and commercial buildings and a higher number of vacant lots.

Of the 120 buildings within the Warren-?Prentis Historic District, 106 buildings - constructed
between c. 1877 and 1946 - are contributing to the district. The district includes ?fty-?ve
multiple dwellings, tWenty-seven single family residences, twenty-two commercial buildings,
four churches (one with an attached church hall), three health care-related buildings, three
educational buildings, two each of humanitarian and industrial buildings, and one govermnental
building. The primary architectural styles represented within the historic district include:
Colonial Revival, Vernacular, Arts and Crafts, Queen Anne, Romanesque, Classical Revival,
Tudor Revival, and Craftsman. Other styles include Renaissance Revival, Beaux Arts, Prairie
School, Commercial, International, Second Empire, and Late Gothic. In varying stages of
upkeep, the buildings display a variety of architectural styles, materials, stylistic decoration, and
craftsmanship.

REPORT

6

Of the ?fty-?ve apartment buildings built between the 18905 and the 19505, forty?eight were
constructed between 1910 and 1930. Subtypes of apartment buildings include duplexes, ?ats,
terraces and small scale to large scale apartment buildings. Construction of twenty-seven single
family residences located within the Warren-Prentis Historic District 5pans the period between
the 1870s and the 19105, with seventy-?ve percent constructed prior to 1900. The residences
range in size from modest, one and one-half story residences to impressive, three and one-half
story mansions. The south side of the 400 block of West Forest contains the ?nest concentration
of single family dwellings designed in Late Victorian architectural styles.

Twenty-two commercial buildings were constructed within the Warren-Prentis Historic District
between the 1910s and the 19505, forty-?ve percent during the 1920s. The commercial buildings
are dispersed throughout the district and are located mainly on the 100 block of West Hancock,
the 4400 block of Second, on the east side of Third at the intersection of West Forest, and along
Woodward. The scale of commercial buildings within the district range from small, one and two
story buildings designed for compatibility with the residential buildings to imposing, multi-story
commercial buildings. Fine examples of commercial architecture include: the Second
Renaissance Revival Blessed Son Grocery store at 4711 Woodward; the Classical Revival
American Boast Magneto Corporation building at 95 West Hancock; and the Art Deco H.A.
_Rhein Drugstore (1928) at 4646 Cass.

Four architecturally unique churches are located within the Warren-Prentis Historic District,
nearly all with prominent comer locations. The Neo~?Gothic First Unitarian-Universalist Church,
rising on the comer of Cass and West Forest, is the most majestic church. A Tudor Revival hall
is attached to the church at the southwest comer. The Nee-Classical First Church of Christ,
Scientist, located at Cass and West Hancock, is the largest and most architecturally intricate of
the churches. A second, more modest First Church of Christ, Scientist, is located on Cass
Avenue. The Arts and Crafts Berea Tabernacle Church is located at the comer of Fourth Avenue
and West Forest.

The following describes a sampling of architecture within the Warren-Prentis Historic District:

1. 4646 Cass, Harold A. Rhein Drugstore (1928). Art Deco; C.S. Vaugrr Company, general
contractors.

This two story, light brick comer store measures 43' wide (along Cass Ave.) by 65' deep initially
housed an of?ce and stores. Built for Wilfred S. Thompson at an estimated construction cost of
$15,000, the Harold A. Rhein Drugstore was the ?rst business to occupy the building and
remained there into the 1940's. In 1986 the building was converted to a church with apartments
above for the Islamic Center of Detroit.

The street front facades are treated similarly: a curved comer containing a recessed entrance is
located on the ?rst ?oor and a window on the second. The second ?oor contains windows placed
at regular intervals. A masonry belt course divides the ?rst and second stories and serves as a
continuous sill. A second arched entrance is located on the south corner.

REPORT

2. 110 W. Forest, McGrath House 1877)..

The McGrath House was built by William McGrath, who, with his partner David Short, platted
the surrounding land as McGrath?s Subdivision in 1872. This two and one-half story, wood
frame Stick/Eastlake style Victorian building is rectangular in shape, with a facade vertically
divided into two bays. The narrow, projecting bay is topped by a front-facing gable roof with
unadorned verge board and supported by corbeled. brackets. A recessed entrance and second
story, gabled window are located to the east. The house has a cross gable towards the rear of the
building. Wood siding is placed both horizontally and vertically. It is a rare example of a frame
house that has survived in thefNorth Cass Corridor.

3. 445 W. Forest, Williamson House, (1892).

Permit #833 was issued to one of Detroit?s most proli?c residential architects, Ah'non Clother
Vamey, on June 1, 1892 for the construction of this three story brick dwelling at an estimated
cost of construction of $8,000. John Williamson, proprietor of Williamson Manufacturing
Company, Perfumers, was its ?rst occupant; another occupant was Daniel J. Guerin, a
?capitalist.? In 1925, the basement was remodeled into a store. It was later converted to a
rooming house. In October, 1944, interior alterations were made to change the occupancy from
_four apartments and eighteen sleeping rooms to seven apartments and eighteen sleeping rooms.

This impressive three?story brick residence is eclectic in style but is predominantly Romanesque,
with the stone foundation rising to the ?rst ?oor at window sill height. The intricate facade is
essentially three bays wide and consists of a broad, ?at wall of brick with a low pitched gable.
The east bay contains a three-story tower with conical roof. The central entrance bay is ?anked
by a broad, two story bay topped with a brick parapet railing. The side elevations lack
architectural ornamentation due to the closeness of adjacent buildings.

4. 632-34 W. Forest, Netherlands Apartments (1912).; Pollmar &Ropes, architect.

. Built for Philip T. Van Zile, a judge in the Wayne County Circuit Court, at an estimated
construction cost of 16,000, the Netherlands was home to Donald Van Zile, an attorney, Frank
R. Hamburger, proprietor of a wholesale clothier, and Robert L. Young, a salesman, among
others in its early years. It is a small scale, symmetrical, three story brick veneer, English
Domestic Revival building with narrow street frontage. The facade is divided into
three vertical sections with a brick front porch spanning the width of the building. The two outer
bays with three story, three-sided bay windows ?ank the central entrance bay. The ?at roof
building has been altered with the removal of the original frieze beneath the cornice and the third
story porch. -

5. 650 W. Forest, Philip T. Van Zile House (1891). Queen Anne; A.C. Varney, architect.

This substantial brick residence rises two and one-half stories above a raised basement.
Measuring 36' wide, the asymmetrical facade is divided into two vertical sections. The two story,
three sided bay on the right is topped by a front facing gable. The double door entrance on the
left is sheltered by a projecting porch roof. Above, the left comer of the building is curved with a

REPORT

8

third story tower topped with a conical roof. The whole is covered by a steep hip roof with
intersecting elements.

Designed for AC. Varney for Circuit Court Judge Philip T. Van Tile, the house was converted to .
a rooming house when the Van Zile family moved in the mid-1920?s. The Netherlands at 632-34
W. Forest and the Little Holland Apartments at 665-667 W. Forest, two small-scale apartment
buildings, were also built for Van Zile.

6. 60 W. Hancock, Detroit Industrial Clinic (1937). Charles N. Agree.

Built at a cost of $25,000 in 1937, the Detroit Industrial Clinic was designed by Charles N.
Agree, architect of the Art Deco Vanity Ballroom located on East Jefferson Avenue at Newport.
The rounded corners of this medium size, two story brick and macotta building re?ect the Art
Moderne style. The facade is asymmetrically arranged and unornamental, including an entrance
and windows of various widths. The ?at roof is also characteristic of the style.

7. 601 W. Hancock, Sherbrooke Apartments (1913).

Samuel Ginsburg, manufacturers agent, Mrs. Hannah Golbe, Walter F. Haass, attorney, and
David W. Davis, insurance agent,'were among the ?rst residents of the Sherbrooke in 1914. In
_1950, the Sherbrooke was converted ?om seven units to twenty-?ve.

This three story, buff brick Domestic English Revival apartment building is laid out in two
identical halves on the corner of W. Hancock and Second Avenue. The wider street ?ont facade,
along W. Hancock, is divided into seven, narrow bays. The narrow entrance bay consists of a
classical archway at entrance level and a stylized stone crest at the third story level. This bay is
?anked by bays with rows of four double hung sash windows per ?oor culminating in a shingled
?'ontal gable with wooden verge board and a rectangular leaded glass window. To its side is
another tall, narrow recessed bay with ornamental iron balconies covered with a bracketed shed
roof. At the outer corners of the front facade is another narrow, tall bay with a molded, steeply
gabled parapet wall with decorative brickwork. This corner treatment is also present at the rear of
the building, connected to the front by a wide bay with a series of ?ve windows per ?oor, topped
by a shed roof.

8. 818 W. Hancock, Evans, Winter and Hebb Advertising and Printing (1924). Frederick J.
Winter, architect. .

This Spanish Colonial Revival style industrial building was constructed for the printing and
advertising ?rm of Evans, Winter Hebb, Inc. The company, originally known as the
Peninsular Engraving company, was founded in Detroit before the turn of the century. This large
rectangular, two story building is located on the corner of W. Warren and Anthony Wayne Drive.
The building is ?nished in stucco and topped by both a hipped tile roof and a ?at roof. A
curvilinear, gabled bay centered on the southern facade contains the enriched classical door
surround. Corner pavilions project from the building and each contain a double-arched
opening balconet with a patera above at the second story level. The Anthony Wayne Drive
elevation mirrors the West Hancock facade, but with more restrained detail. The building now

REPORT

9
houses the Wayne State University Bioengineering Department.

9. 460 Prentis, Prentis Apartments (1904). E.W. Gregory, architect.

E.W. Gregory was the architect of this three story symmetrical brick multi-unitbuilding
constructed in 1904 at a cost of $13,000. It originally contained six apartments but was 
expanded into thirteen in late 1941. Among early tenants were Oliver G. Frederick, supervisor of
grades, public schools; Butler Ives, president and treasurer of Continental Varnish Paint
Company. The Prentis Apartments is signi?cant as a small scale apartment building attractive to
a professional class of tenants in the early years of the twentieth century. In late 1941, the
building was converted from seven to thirteen apartments.

10. 663 Prentis, Villa Lante (1916). Italian Renaissance Revival; Ricth H. Marr, architect.
The Villa Lante was designed by the architect Richard H. Marr, noted Detroit architect of many
single family and multiple dwellings in Detroit, including the William Fisher House in Palmer
Woods and the Franzen Apartments at 683 Prentis. It was built for CC. Smith in 1916 at an
estimated cost of $33,000.

Constructed on a high stone-faced basement with semi~round arched door openings and squared
windows, this three story light brick, symmetrically arranged building measures 3 8' wide .by 18'
deep. The facade is divided into ?ve bays. The central bay contains a semi-round, classically
framed stone entrance with a cast iron railing above at second story level and a cast stone
cartouche at third story level. Groupings of three windows per ?oor ?ank the entrance bay and
single windows per ?oor are located in the outer bays. A bracketed cornice crowns the facade
with a bracketed cornice supporting a shallow tiled roof slope. 

11. 4625 Second, Forest Apartments (1905). Baxter O'Dell, architect. This richly detailed,
large scale, symmetrically arranged four story Jacobethan Revival red and yellow apartment
building, built on a raised basement, is con?gured with a central block that is setback and two
(north and south) wings. The building measures 160' along Second Avenue and 115' along West
Forest. The central arched entrance within the central block exhibits decorative column capitals,
?gural reliefs in the spandrels, cartouches, and a shell-like niche above its cornice. Red and
yellow brick alternate at the corners of bays, creating a quoin or stripe effect. The perimeter of
the ?at roof is lined by crenelation, curvilinear pediments, and small domes with projections in
the central recessed section. 

Original residents were mostly professionals, among them William A. Nelson, a dra?sman at
Great Lakes Engine Works, Arthur Crane, a civil engineer, Henry C. Leonard, a physician with
of?ces in his apartment, and John Weber, a travel agent. The building almost doubled its
occupancy and a temporary penthouse was added in 1945 to accommodate an in?ux of
population due to wartime production.

12. 4762-64 Second, Renaud Apartments (1903). Beaux Arts; Baxter O'Dell, architect.
Dr. George L. Renaud commissioned Detroit architectural ?rm of Baxter and O?Dell to design

REPORT

10

this apartment building, originally containing sixteen units, in 1903 at a cost of $29,000. Renaud
was a throat specialist who cautioned against the removal of tonsils as early as 1925, a full ten
years before the notion that tonsils might have some function became acceptable. Around its
corner at 491 W. Hancock is the Renaud Annex, a similar apartment building constructed in
1905 and also designed by Baxter O?Dell.

The Renaud Apartments is a four story, medium size brick building on "rusticated" raised
basement measuring 60' along Second Ave. and 70' along W. Hancock. The symmetrically
arranged, street front elevations are divided into vertical bays; both containing multiple four
story, three sided bays. The, Second Avenue facade contains a central entrance with stone
surround lavished with Classical detailing reminiscent of a triumphal arch ?anked by three-sided
bays topped by semi-round brick pediments. The ?at roof on the street-front elevations is lined
by a balustrade and c0rnice, under which is a frieze with the name RENAUD ?anked by
cartouches on the main facade.

13. 4811 Second Avenue, William A. Butler House (1894). Chapman Frazer, architects
(Boston), Baxter O?Dell, architects (1915 addition).

William A. Butler, Jr., original ov?mer of this house, was a prominent Detroit banker. His father,
,also a banker, left four blocks bounded by Second, Third, Prentis and Putnam and commonly
known as the Butler Subdivision, to his wife and sons, and William A. Butler, Jr. proceeded to
built his home on the comer of Second and Hancock. Built in the Colonial Revival style, the
house was praised as a harmonious reproduction of an old New England home. After Butler?s
death in 1914, the family sold the house to John F. Dodge, automobile magnate and cofounder of
Dodge brothers Automobile Company, who presented it to the Detroit Federation of Women?s
Clubs in recognition of its charitable work. The. house is now owned by Central Alliance
Church.

The Butler house is a rectangular two and one-half story red brick structure with a cylindrical
comer tower capped with a conical roof. Its decorative brick walls sit on a high foundation of
brown sandstone. Colonial details include a Palladian window, wooden modjllioned cornice,
triangular pedimental dormers, a semicircular dormer with a shell motif, a Georgian style
balustrade, and a Georgian Revival doorway. The interior of the house is notable for the fine
quality of its Colonial decorations. Much natural wood, including oak, sherry, mahogany and
sycamore, was used. The three story brick addition at the rear of the house made the removal of
the original kitchen necessary but is compatible with Chapman Frazer?s design.

14. 4742-54 Third, 693?709 W. Hancock Apartment Building (1913). Colonial Revival/
Craftsman; A.C. Wood Realty Company.

This two story brick terrace building, containing nine units, is located on the comer of Third
Ave. and W. Hancock. Although large in overall mass, the building is relatively small in scale. In
plan, the building is L?shaped. The two?color brick is laid to create a diagonal striped pattern.
Each unit has a two-story rounded bay of windows. The comer unit has its own Colonial Revival
porch with ionic column capitals and a pedimental gable supported on brick porch walls; the

REPORT

11

other eight units are paired to share similar porches. Above the molded cornice is a parapet wall
with cast stone cresting and open hole designs above the rounded bays. Among early residents of
the terraces were a baker, a manager of a mineral springs bath house, a furrier, two antoworkers
and two widowWarren, Children's Aid Society (1931). Arts Crafts; Albert Kahn, architect.
71 West Warren, which opened as a clinic and headquarters building of the Children?s Aid
Society in 1931, presently serves as the of?ces of Wayne State University?s 

Department. In style, the building re?ects the modern aesthetics of the Arts and Crafts movement

as executed by Eliel Saarinen in the late 1920's and early 1930's. It was constructed at an
estimated cost $127,800 as a large two story, brick building measuring 136' wide by 142' deep. In
plan, the building is a three-sided square with a courtyard in the middle. The street-front facade is
a horizontally emphasized U-shape composed of a recessed central entrance bay ?anked by outer
bays containing horizontal rows of industrial style windows in groups of ?ve. Raised brick rows
?anking the windows and ?at brick above and below the second story windows creates textural
and coloristic interest. The building is topped by a hip roof with original gray slate.

16. 665 W. Warren, Hadley Hall Apartments (1922). I.M. Lewis, architect.

A permit was issued to Cadillac Construction Company on May 26, 1922 for the construction of
this multiple dwelling originally containing forty-nine units, at an estimated cost of $100,000.
Early residents (1924) included Eleanor M. Thompson, a music teacher (1924), Teresa R.
Murphy, a nurse, Zigmund Lewandowski, an attorney, and Carl. F. Mann, a voice teacher at
Detroit conservatory of Music. 

This large, English Revival, three story, brick apartment building sits atop a raised basement and
measures 110' wide by 149' deep. In plan, the building is U-shaped with a recessed central
courtyard. The central entrance bay is ?anked by buttressed, three story porch bays with slate
covered gables of parapet walls rising above the roof line. The roof is a combination of front and
side gables. Cast stone trim is limited to cresting outlining the silhouette of the building, buttress
ends, and the shields at the ?rst story of the gabled porch bays.

17. 4747 Woodward Avenue, Detroit Police Department (1946). Banbrook, Gwon 
Company, contractors.

Precinct Station #13 was built to upgrade existing police facilities as the population of Detroit
expanded after World War II. Constructed of brick and concrete block, this medium-size, two
story building with attached garage measures 174' wide along Woodward Avenue and 127' wide
along W. Hancock. The asymmetrical elevations contain elements indicative of the International
Style including flat roof tops, large expanses of windows, cantilevered horizontal surfaces, and
absence of ornamental detail.

18. 4809 Woodward, Goodrich Building (1913). Chicago style; Albert Kahn Associates,
architect.
The Goodrich Building was originally constructed in 1913/14 to house a growing location of the

REPORT

12

BF. Goodrich Rubber Company, merchants of automobile tires. One of the ?big four? of the
rubber companies, the BF. Goodrich Company was the ?rst to developed a pneumatic tire for the
automobile. Wayne State University rehabilitated the building in 1994 and renamed it the
Leonard N. Simons Building.

This medium size, three story, reinforced concrete building clad with brick is rectangular in plan
with narrower street frontage. The first ?oor of the building was recently covered with a concrete
skin with architectural detailing on the ?rst ?oor piers. The building is vertically divided into ?ve
bays across the Woodward Avenue facade and eight bays along Hancock Avenue. Dark spandrels
at the second story level along with the light tile and ornamentation on the legs of the arch make
the arched openings above the third story more prominent. The second and third stories contain
one grouping of windows per bay.

Criteria: The proposed historic district meets three of the criteria contained in Chapter 25:
Section 25?1-?1: Sites, building, structures or archeological sites where cultural, social, Spiritual,
economic, political or architectural history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly
re?ected or exempli?ed. Section 25-2-2: Sites, buildings, structures, or archeological sites which
are identi?ed with historic personages or with important events in community, city, state or
_national history. Section 25-2?3: Buildings or structures which embody the distinguishing
characteristics of an architectural Specimen, inherently valuable as a representation of a period,
style or method of construction.

Recommendation: The Historic Designation Advisory Board recommend that City Council
adopt an ordinance of designation for the proposed historic district with the design treatment
level of ?rehabilitation.? A draft ordinance is attached for City Council?s consideration.

REPORT

13

BIBLIOGRAPHY - Warren - Prentis Historic District

The two sources used to prepare this study report were:
1. City of Detroit, Historic Designation Advisory Board, North Cass Corridor Intensive Level Survey Detroit,

August, 1995, vol. 1,2, 3.

2. Zachary and Associates, Inc., Multiple Property Documentation Form for the CASS FARM UR VE AREA,
Detroit, May 1997.

. Below are sources used to prepare the documents listed'above:

Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. "Historical Projects of Albert Kahn Associates, 1nc.: 1896-1940." Job #535.
Baist. Baists Real Estate Atlas of Detroit. 1911.

Burton, Clarence M. The History of Detroit. Michigan 1701-1922. Volume I. Detroit: The Clarke Publishing
Company, 1922.

Children's Aid Society. Brief History of Children's Aid Society." n.d.
Children's Aid Society. Chiidren'sAide Society Annual Report." 1917.
City of Detroit Building and Safety Engineering Department, Building Permit Card Index:

City of Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board. "Proposed Art Center Music School Historic District, Final
Report."

City of Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board. "Proposed First Unitarian?Universalist Church Historic District,
Final Report." 1980.

City of Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board. Proposed Mackenzie House Historic District, Final Report."
1980.

City of Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board. "Proposed Robson?Dodge House Historic District, Preliminary
Report." 1980.

Coir, Mark. "National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form: George W. Loomer House." 1994.
Coir, Mark. "National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form: Mulford T. Hunter House." 1994.
Detroit Free Press. "Dr. George L. Renaud." July?~10, 1949.

Detroit News. ?Tonsil Caution Years Late.~. October 15, 1934.

Detroit News. May 17, 1940.

Detroit Public Library, Burton Historical Collection, Detroit Board of Education - Histories of the Public School of
Detroit, Volume January, 1967: Central High School.

Dleuber. Michigan Through the Centuries- New York: Lewis Historical Publishing Company, Inc., 1955.

Farmer, Silas. Historv of Detroit and Wayne and Early Michigan. Detroit: Silas Farmer and Company, 1880.

REPORT

14
Ferry, Hawkins. The Buildings of Detroit. Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 1980.
Florek, Marilyn. "National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form: Central Alliance Church." n.d.
Hacker, Amy. "State Register of Historic Sites Nomination Form: The Thompson Home.? 1974.

Marquis, Albert Nelson, editor. The Book of Detroiters: A Biographical Dictionary of Leading Living Men of the
Citv of Detroit. Chicago: A.N. Marquis Company, 1914.

McAlester, Virginia Lee. A Fisid Guide to American Houses. New York: Aifred A. Knopf, 1992.

Michigan History Division. Nationai Register of Historic Piaces Nomination Form: Wayne State University Historic
District." Lansing, Michigan, 1976.

Michigan Motor News. ?Society Survives from Civil War Days to Aid 1932 Orphans." October 1932, voi. 15, pp.
16-17.

Polk, R.L. Detroit Citv Directorv. R.L. Polk, Publishers: Detroit, various years.

Robinson, E. Atlas of the Citv of Detroit. New York: E. Robinson, 1885.

Robinson, Elaine. "National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form: Goodrich Building." 1989.

?Vollmert, Les. "National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form: Boydell Double House." 1980.

Wayne State University, Walter Reuther Archives, Vertical Files, University Buildings: Old Main I Central High School.
Weeks, J.W. Detroit Citv Directorv. Detroit: William A. Scripps Book and Job Printing House, 1879-1884.

Whitten, Hope. "National Register of Historic Piaces Nomination Form: The Thompson Home for Old Ladies." 1974.

Wayne County Registrar of Deeds, Tract Index.

REPORT

 

 

 

 

 

PROPOSED WARREN-PRENTIS AREA HISTORIC DISTRICT

(Boundaries of district outlined in heavy black) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

53de ?an of the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0W. Warm Gaunty. Michigan

+?1nd Dlsirld 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

