MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
June 20, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday, June
20, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at Altgeld Murray Community Building, 951 E. 132nd St., Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson, on
Wednesday, June 21st, the heads of all of major public housing agencies in the country will be in
Chicago for an annual conference. They will go on a tour of CHA and meet to discuss challenges
facing public housing agencies all across the country. Mayor Richard M. Daley and Senator
Obama are scheduled to be keynote speakers. Mr. Peterson continued by saying that this is an
opportunity for CHA to put its best face for a national audience and show them how much progress
the Authority has made. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by highlighting several of the ground
breaking and ribbon cutting affairs he had recently attended welcoming families back to CHA
while offering others job opportunities.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and
the public at large to address the Board. Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the
meeting, a Motion was introduced and seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately one (1) hour to discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective
negotiating matters, security and personnel matters. The Commissioners subsequently reconvened
in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive
Session.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion to approve resolution for Executive Session Item 1.
Executive Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-77
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 5, 2006, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for May 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for May
2006.
1

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Wiggins and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Executive Item 2
Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion to approve resolution for Executive Session Item 2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-78
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 14, 2006,
regarding authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$800,000 for the case known as K.R. Miller Contractors, Inc. v. Chicago Housing
Authority, 04 CH 16155;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel or her designee to enter
into a settlement agreement in the amount of $800,000 for the case known as K.R.
Miller Contractors, Inc. v. Chicago Housing Authority, 04 CH 16155. This
settlement is subject to the Chicago Housing Authority receiving approval from the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Executive Session Item 2 was seconded by Commissioner
O’Keefe and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Recused:

Commissioner Ponce

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented the report for
the Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner Young the Tenant Services Committee
Meeting was held on Wednesday, April 12, 2006 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate
offices.
The Committee was presented with an update on Job Placement Program by Rayne
Martin, Director of Resident and Relocation Services, and representatives from the Department of
Human Services and National Able.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.

2

 (Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the form of tenant selection plan, lease and resident handbook
to be used for Scattered Sites West off-site replacement housing known as The Fountain View. The
developer has an interest and desire to implement its own lease forms and policy that encourages
consistent community standards for the effective management of its mixed-income developments.
The tenant selection plan, lease and resident handbook have to accommodate various aspects of the
multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed-income transaction. The property’s specific
requirements for applicants contained in the admissions and continued occupancy policy are
derived from the CHA’s Minimum Tenant Selection Plan. The approval of this item is required at
this time to facilitate the closing of this development transaction. These documents have been
subject to negotiation among the CHA, the Developer and Lawndale LAC and the documents are
recommended as acceptable. A public comment period was held from May 10, 2006 through June
8, 2006. A public comment hearing was held on May 23, 2006 at the Douglas Park Field House.
Notice for the 30 day public comment period and comment hearing was provided to the public and
consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments prior to finalizing the documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-79
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 1, 2006,
entitled “Authorization for Approval of the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and
Resident Handbook for Scattered Sites West Replacement Housing at the Fountain
View and to Amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to
incorporate such documents as an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of tenant selection
plan, lease and resident handbook in substantially the form presented to the Board
for the Scattered Sites West off-site replacement housing at the development known
as The Fountain View. The Chairperson of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer
is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including, but not
limited to, changes based on HUD requirements or resulting from any applicable
notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A2)
Similar to Item A1, the resolution for Item A2 approves the form of lease, lease riders, tenant
selection plan and building rules to be used for Cabrini-Green off-site replacement housing known
as The Parkside of Old Town. Board approval is required at this time to facilitate the closing of this
development transaction. Documents have been subject to negotiation among the CHA, the
Developer and Cabrini-Green LAC and the documents are recommended as acceptable. A public
comment period was held from May 19, 2006 through June 19, 2006. A public comment hearing
was held on May 31, 2006 at the Chicago Police Department, 18th District. Notice for the 30 day
public comment period and comment hearing was provided to the public and consideration will be
given to any forthcoming comments prior to finalizing the documents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-80
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 1, 2006,
entitled “Authorization for approval of the Lease, Lease Riders, Tenant selection
Plan and Building Rules for Cabrini-Green Replacement Housing at the Parkside
and to amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate
such documents as an addendum thereto”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease, lease
riders, tenant selection plan and building rules in substantially the form presented to
the Board for the Cabrini-Green replacement housing at the development known as
The Parkside of Old Town. The Chairperson of the Board or the Chief Executive
Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including, but
not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements or resulting from any applicable
notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

3

 (Item A3)
In May 2006, a Request for Proposal was issued soliciting qualified individuals or firms to provide
safe, decent and affordable units to house the temporary relocation of CHA families while
redevelopment and rehabilitation is taking place. Based on the review of the proposals, it was
determined to award contracts to three vendors for approximately 50 units. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A3 approves the form of lease, public housing rider, drug-free lease addendum,
and Grievance Procedure for these units in the private market which will temporarily house
relocating CHA families. The form lease is the Chicago landlord – tenant lease. The public housing
rider, which will be signed by each leaseholder, contains additional tenant and landlord obligations
and responsibilities in accordance with public housing regulations. The Grievance Procedure is the
CHA’s resident grievance procedure, which was approved by the Board in January 2004. The lease
form and supplemental documents encourage consistent community standards, effective property
management, and comply with public housing regulations and obligations. The form of lease, the
public housing rider, drug-free lease addendum and Grievance Procedure were released for public
comment on April 6, 2006. A public hearing was held on April 20, 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 12, 2006,
entitled, “Authorization for approval of a Form of Lease, Public Housing Lease
Rider, a Drug-free Lease Addendum, and Grievance Procedure for Housing Units to
temporarily house families relocating from public housing”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the form of lease, public housing lease
rider, a drug-free lease addendum, and Grievance Procedure for the housing units to
be used to temporarily house families relocating from public housing. The Chairman
of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on public comments, HUD
requirements or other regulatory agency requirements. Such approval shall constitute
conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A4)
In March 2006 a Request for Proposal was advertised in area newspapers to provide safe, decent
and affordable units to house the temporary relocation of CHA families while redevelopment and
rehabilitation is taking place. Of the three proposals received and opened the evaluation committee
reviewed and scored each proposal based upon criteria set forth in the RFP. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A4 approves award of contracts to the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation, Urban Property Advisors and Carmen Navarro to temporary house CHA
residents during the relocation process, for approximately 50 units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-82
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 12, 2006, entitled “Ratification of award of three (3)
contracts to house the temporary relocation of CHA families.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners ratifies the cost negotiations and award of three (3)
twenty-four month base term contracts with two (2) one-year option periods for
temporary relocation housing for Chicago Housing Authority families in an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed $2,090,369.27 for the twenty-four (24) month base
term.

(Item A5)
As part of the Community and Supportive Services Plan for ABLA, residents are encouraged to
participate in educational and employment training programs. Since January 2001, CPS
implemented the Employability Plus Program at ABLA Homes that provides eligible residents with
a high school reentry program in order to receive their diploma. Additionally, there is a GED
program for residents who are not able to return to high school. A second component to the
program allows residents to participate in job training where they learn skills in trades such as
carpentry, masonry, plumbing, electricity and painting. Participants also attend workshops in the
following areas: educational public health on HIV/AIDS, drug abuse and public assistance
legislation. The Program is essential to the ABLA community, and supports the CHA’s Plan for
Transformation by linking families with opportunities that will assist their move toward self4

 sufficiency and integration into mixed-income communities. Accordingly, the resolution for Item
A5 approves the second one-year option of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago Board of Education.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-83
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 12, 2006, entitled “Recommendation to exercise the second
one year option of the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Board
of Education for the Employability Plus Program at ABLA Development”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to exercise the second one (1) year option of the intergovernmental agreement
(“IGA”) with the City of Chicago Board of Education for the Employability Plus
program at ABLA (“Contract No. 0675”)for the period of July 1, 2006 through June
30, 2007 for an amount not-to-exceed $79,300.00. The new total not-to-exceed
contract amount of Contract No. 0675 will be $296,850.00. The Board also
authorizes the third and fourth year option periods, exercisable at the CHA’s sole
discretion, which were included in Contract No. 0575.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves acceptance of an Illinois State Board of Education Grant for
the Summer Food Program in the amount of $3,390,508. The purpose of this program is to extend
the National Food Program through the summer vacation months to ensure that CHA youths
receive nutritional help needed for proper physical development. The Program for 2006 has been
developed to serve approximately 12,000 breakfast meals per day at approximately 145 sites at a
cost of $ 1.298 per meal, approximately 16,000 cold/hot lunches per day at approximately 145 sites
at a cost of $1.989 per meal, and approximately 1,800 snacks per day at a cost of $.59 each. The
meals will be served for two-hour periods, five days a week, in all CHA family developments.
There will also be approximately 70 special events during the term of the program at which meals
will be served. The program will run for 55 days and will begin June 19, 2006 and end September
2, 2006. In April 2006 the Authority advertised an IFB in area newspapers and also directly
solicited fifteen vendors, including one MBE/WBE firm, to provide food services for the program.
Only one bid was received from Open Kitchens, the company that has provided this service in past
years. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A6 also ratifies contract with Open Kitchens.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-84
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 12, 2006 entitled: “Authorization to accept a grant from the
Illinois State Board of Education for the Summer Food Services Program and
ratification of a contract with Open Kitchens Inc. for the 2006 Summer Food
Services Program.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to accept an Illinois State Board of Education Grant for the 2006 Summer Food
Program (“Program”) in the amount of $3,390,508.00 and ratifies a contract with
Open Kitchens, Inc. to provide food services for the Program, for the period of June
12, 2006 to September 2, 2006 for a total amount not-to-exceed $2,664,348.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Nesbitt and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
5

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
(Item A7)
Although CHA no longer directly provides social services to its residents, it still wants to ensure
that summer programs are available again this summer for its teenage residents. The City began
utilizing After School Matters as its independent contractor in 2003 to administer a preapprenticeship employment program for 14 and 15 year old teenagers throughout the City and to
competitively secure and provide the Program’s instructors. The CHA desires to contract directly
with After School Matters, as it has the last several summers, to ensure that a maximum of 420 slots
are available for CHA’s 14 and 15 year old residents. The Program is scheduled to run five days
per week, four hours per day, from July 3, 2006 through August 11, 2006. Participants will
receive a combination of academic training and professional skill development. Skilled teachers
will focus on teaching the hard skills of the discipline (such as sports, technology, business and
science or skilled trades, e.g. carpentry/plumbing.), the soft skills necessary to function in a
workplace (such as problem-solving and teamwork) and provide the structure to intertwine the
academic component. The College Prep Program, new this summer for CHA high school student
residents, will provide approximately 25 academically qualified CHA high school students with
tools and resources that will increase their likelihood for admission into four-year colleges or
universities. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A7 approves award of contract to After School
Matters.
Commissioner Young then introduced a Motion for the approval of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 12, 2006 entitled “Authorization to Enter Into a Contract
with After School Matters To Provide Various Summer Programs for CHA Student
Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee,
to enter into a noncompetitive contract with After School Matters, Inc., a not for
profit 501(c)(3) corporation, to provide: (1) a summer pre-apprenticeship
employment training program for fourteen and fifteen year old CHA residents for the
period of July 3, 2006 through August 11, 2006; (2) NeighborSports, an early
evening summer sports league that features basketball, soccer and volleyball for
boys and girls, ages thirteen through eighteen from July 5, 2006 through August 21,
2006; and (3) a college prep program for academically qualified CHA students from
July 5, 2006 through August 21, 2006 for a total amount not to exceed $529,000.00
for all programs.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A7 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.

6

 Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented his monthly report.
Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, April 12, 2006 at approximately 1:50 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Gates, then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for Items
B2 thru B7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations & Facilities
Committee.
(Item B1 - THIS NUMBER NOT USED)

(Item B2, B3 and B4
The Asset Management Department surveyed the scavenger services being provided across the
developments and found that the service and cost varied from development to development, even
within the same management company’s portfolio. Therefore, with expectations of standardizing
the performance and the cost of services being provided to each portfolio as a whole, the Asset
Management Department directed that each property management company for the Authority
contract with one waste removal vendor, for all of the sites within its portfolio. Accordingly, the
resolutions for Items B2, B3 and B4 approve award of contract to Allied Waste Services (B2 & B4)
and Waste Management Services (B3) for scavenger services at various CHA sites. These services
were properly procured by the Property Management Companies following HUD’s and CHA’s
guidelines.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-86
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 12, 2006 entitled “Approval for Jane Addams Hull House
Housing Resource Center to Enter into a Contract with Allied Waste Services for
Scavenger Services at Various CHA Sites”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the purchase of services by the Jane Addams
Hull House Housing Resource Center, the property management company for the
CHA, through a contract with Allied Waste Services for scavenger services in the
amount not-to-exceed $231,408.00 for a two year contract term with a one-year
option.

(Item B3)
Commissioner O’Keefe recused from voting on the following resolution for Item B3.

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-87
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 12, 2006, entitled “Approval for Hispanic Housing
Development Corp. to Enter into a Contract with Waste Management for Scavenger
Services at Various CHA Sites”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the purchase of services by Hispanic Housing
Development Corp., the property management company for the CHA, through a
contract with Waste Management for scavenger services in the amount not-to-exceed
$343,344.00 for a two year contract term with a one-year option.

(Item B4)
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-88
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 12, 2006 entitled “Approval for Urban Property Advisors
to Enter into a Contract with Allied Waste Services for Scavenger Services at
Various CHA Sites”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the purchase of services by Urban Property
Advisors, LLC, the property management company for the CHA, through a contract
with Allied Waste Services for scavenger services in the amount not-to-exceed
7

 $224,584.00 for a two year contract term with a one-year option.

(Item B5)
The Brinshore-Michaels development team was the successful respondent to CHA’s solicitation for
the planning and implementation of the Master Redevelopment Plan for the Henry Horner Homes
development. Pursuant to the Redevelopment Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site
remediation for pre-existing conditions on the development site on a phase-by-phase basis. Henry
Horner Phase IIB represents the second major phase of on-site redevelopment within the larger
Henry Horner Homes mixed income Revitalization Plan. The Brinshore-Michaels development
team has contracted with Walsh Construction as the General Contractor for the redevelopment of
the Phase IIB rental and if Walsh provides the environmental remediation work, various benefits to
the project will be realized such as: continuity of schedule; continuity of activity and economy of
scale. The estimated remediation costs for Henry Horner Homes Phase IIB rental redevelopment
site is $1,341,694. CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediation, foreseen and unforeseen
environmental conditions is capped at 225% of this estimated total cost, which is $3,018,812.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award of an environmental remediation contract
to Walsh.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, June 12, 2006,
requesting authorization to 1) enter into a contract with Walsh Construction
Company, Inc. for environmental remediation activities in connection with
Brinshore-Michaels development team’s implementation of the HUD approved
Revitalization Plan at Henry Horner Homes redevelopment site Phase IIB rental, and
2) Execute other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to 1) enter into a contract with Walsh Construction Company, Inc. for environmental
remediation activities at the Henry Horner Homes Phase IIB rental development site
for a total contract amount not to exceed $3,018,812 (225% of the estimated
remediation costs), subject to any necessary HUD approvals; and 2) Execute other
documents as necessary to implement the foregoing. The term of the contract shall
be the earlier of: (i) the receipt of a “No Further Remediation” letter from the IEPA
with regard to the Henry Horner Homes Phase IIB rental development site, or (ii)
two years, subject to a one year extension, at CHA’ election.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 authorizes the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners, the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) or the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) to execute and deliver the Bonds, all
Bond related agreements and related documentation in order to issue and sell not more than
$15,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the CHA’s Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds
(Parkside Project- Phase I), Series 2006A and Series 2006B, submit a Mixed Finance Proposal,
evidentiaries and amended Disposition Application to HUD; and loan certain HOPE VI moneys in
an amount not to exceed $8,200,000 to Parkside Four Phase I, L.P. and to ground lease the Project
site to Parkside Old Town I, LLC. The resolution for Item B6 further approves the CEO or his
designee to execute all closing documents in connection with the Cabrini Extension North Phase I
Condo redevelopment project. The Cabrini Extension North Phase I Condo (Parkside Condo)
Redevelopment Project is a mixed-finance, mixed-income redevelopment undertaking that
represents the first phase of on-site redevelopment within the larger Cabrini Green Homes area.
The development will be located in an area bounded by Larrabee Street to the West, Division Street
to the North, Seward Park to the East, and Oak Street to the South – the Cabrini Extension North
site. This phase of development will consist of approximately 280 new construction units,
consisting of 208 homeownership and 72 rental units. Parkside Old Town I, LLC is the developer
of the Project and Parkside Associates, LLC is the Managing Member. Kimball Hill Urban Centers
Chicago One, LLC, Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation and Cabrini Green LAC
Community Development Corporation each own a one-third membership interest in the Managing
Member. The Parkside Condo phase is expected to provide 72 rental units of replacement public
housing for Cabrini residents, 14 affordable for-sale units and 194 market rate for-sale units. A 128
unit condominium building including 29 public housing units, a 79-unit condominium building
including 17 public housing units, and 73 single-family town homes including 26 public housing
8

 units comprise the phase. Pursuant to the Cabrini Green Consent Decree, the CHA will lease the
land underlying both the condominium buildings and all town homes to the Developer pursuant to
99-year ground leases. The CHA will provide operating subsidy to pay the reasonable expenses of
operating the public housing units. The 72 public housing units will be subject to low-income
housing tax credit restrictions and reserved for households earning no more than 60% of AMI. The
affordable homeownership units will be sold to households with incomes no greater than 120% of
AMI. The direct costs for the 72 public housing rental units of the new Cabrini Extension North
Phase I Condo development total an estimated $22,148,425 and are expected to be funded by the
following sources of permanent financing: the CHA will issue tax-exempt bonds during
construction, Low Income Housing Tax Credits; HOPE VI funds, public housing capital funds or
development funds; TIF assistance and additional equity from the syndication of tax credits. The
for-sale housing units will be financed through a conventional construction loan and additional TIF
financing. The Bonds will be issued in two series and the proceeds will be loaned to the Parkside
Four Phase I, L.P. pursuant to one or more Loan Agreements. JPMorgan Chase, N.A. will purchase
the Series 2006A and 2006B Bonds. The Authority will provide permanent financing through its
loan of HOPE VI funds sufficient to retire the Series 2006A Bonds. The Bonds are not a debt of
any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision
thereof, other than the Authority. The Bonds are special limited obligations of the Authority
payable solely from the revenues of the Project and the other sources specified in the Indenture.
Commissioner O’Keefe recused from voting on the following resolution for Item B6.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-90
RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO EXCEED $15,000,000 AGGREGATE
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVENUE BONDS (PARKSIDE PROJECT—
PHASE I) OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY IN TWO SERIES AND AUTHORIZING THE SALE
THEREOF; AUTHORIZING THE LOAN OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE BONDS TO PARKSIDE FOUR
PHASE I, L.P., AND/OR AN AFFILIATED ENTITY, TO BE USED TO PAY COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION OF
72 UNITS OF RENTAL HOUSING IN THE PARKSIDE CONDO REDEVELOPMENT; AUTHORIZING THE
SALE OF THE BONDS TO JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. OR AN AFFILIATED ENTITY;
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF ALL BOND DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH
THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF THE BONDS; AUTHORIZING THE SUBMISSION OF A MIXED FINANCE
PROPOSAL, EVIDENTIARIES AND AMENDED DISPOSITION APPLICATION TO THE U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (“HUD”); AUTHORIZING THE GROUND LEASE OF THE
SITE OF THE PROJECT BY THE AUTHORITY TO PARKSIDE OLD TOWN I, LLC; AUTHORIZING THE
LOAN BY THE AUTHORITY OF HOPE VI FUNDS IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $8,200,000 TO
PARKSIDE FOUR PHASE I, L.P. TO PROVIDE PERMANENT FINANCING FOR CERTAIN COSTS OF THE
PROJECT AND TO RETIRE THE SERIES 2006A BONDS; AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND
DELIVERY OF EVIDENTIARY DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE PARKSIDE CONDO
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT, AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF ALL OTHER AGREEMENTS
IN CONNECTION THEREWITH; AND RELATED MATTERS.
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois
(the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq.,
and all laws amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local Government
Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of
Illinois (the “State”), including without limitation the Act, to issue its revenue bonds for the
purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the proceeds thereof to finance the
cost of the development and construction of multifamily rental housing located in the jurisdiction of
the Authority; and
WHEREAS, Parkside Old Town I, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (the
“Developer”), proposes to construct the “Parkside Condo” Redevelopment Project consisting of 72
rental units of replacement public housing for Cabrini Green residents, included within a
mixed-finance, mixed-income, redevelopment project that represents the first phase of on-site
redevelopment within the larger Cabrini Green Homes area, which phase will also include 14
affordable for-sale units and 194 market-rate for sale units, all in Chicago, Illinois (the “Project”);
and
WHEREAS, a portion of the costs of the Project will be financed through the issuance by the
Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2006A (Parkside Project—Phase I)
(the “Series 2006A Bonds”) and its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2006B (Parkside
Project—Phase I) (the “Series 2006B Bonds”) (collectively, the “Bonds”); and
9

 WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds will be loaned to an affiliate of the Developer,
Parkside Four Phase I, L.P., an Illinois limited partnership (and/or any other affiliated entity, the
“Borrower”); and
WHEREAS, the sole member of the Developer is Parkside Associates, LLC (the “Managing
Member”), an Illinois limited liability company; and Kimball Hill Urban Centers Chicago One,
LLC, an Illinois limited liability company, Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation, an
Illinois corporation, and Cabrini Green LAC Community Development Corporation, an Illinois
not-for-profit corporation, each own a one-third membership interest in the Managing Member; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing thereof will meet
the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is
now prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project through the
issuance and sale of the Bonds pursuant to one or more Indentures of Trust (the “Indenture”)
between the Authority and a corporate trustee to be determined, as Trustee (the “Trustee”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower
pursuant to one or more Loan Agreements between the Authority and the Borrower (the “Loan
Agreement”) and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under the Loan Agreement
will be evidenced by one or more Notes (the “Note”) from the Borrower to the Authority which
will be assigned by the Authority to the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, certain income and other rental restrictions required by Section 142 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) will be specified in one or more
Regulatory Agreements and Declarations of Restrictive Covenants (the “Regulatory Agreement”)
among the Authority, the Borrower and the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code
will be specified in one or more Tax Exemption Certificate and Agreements (the “Tax Agreement”)
among the Authority, the Borrower and the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, both series of Bonds will be sold by private placement to JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., or an affiliated entity (the “Bond Purchaser”) pursuant to one or more Bond Purchase
Agreements (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”) among the Authority, the Borrower and the Bond
Purchaser; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Note will be secured by one or more
mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with respect to the Project (the
“Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the Authority or the Trustee and, if to the
Authority, the rights of the Authority to such instruments and, as applicable, the Note will be
assigned to the Trustee pursuant to an assignment (an “Assignment”) from the Authority; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lease the site of the Project to the Developer pursuant to one or
more ground leases (the “Ground Leases”);
WHEREAS, the Series 2006A Bonds will be secured by and payable from certain HOPE VI
moneys (“HOPE VI Proceeds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow, and such
HOPE VI Proceeds, upon withdrawal from such escrow, will constitute a loan from the Authority to
the Borrower pursuant to a loan agreement (the “HOPE VI Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower;
and
WHEREAS, the Borrower will be required to operate 72 housing units within the Project for
the use and occupancy of public housing eligible individuals and, in connection therewith, the
Borrower will enter into a regulatory and operating agreement with the Authority, a declaration of
restrictive covenants with the Authority and HUD, and a mortgage and other collateral documents
and related agreements and instruments (collectively, and together with the HOPE VI Loan
Agreement, the “HOPE VI Borrower Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, other sources of funding for costs of the Project will be provided by the City of
Chicago (the “City”) pursuant to a contribution of proceeds of a tax-increment financing, equity
contributions by the Borrower and other sources; and
10

 WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds and the other funding sources may be disbursed
pursuant to a disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement Agreement”); and
WHEREAS all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”) (i)
have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii) will be paid on or
after the passage of this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City has approved (or is expected to approve) the transfer
to the Authority of a portion of the City’s available unused volume cap for calendar year 2006
pursuant to Section 146 of the Code for use by the Authority in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds, and the City and the Authority may enter into a volume cap transfer agreement (the “Cap
Transfer Agreement”) to reflect such transfer; and
WHEREAS, the Authority and the receiver for the Authority for the development of new nonelderly housing will enter into a Mixed-Finance Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract
with HUD; and
WHEREAS, the Indenture, the Loan Agreement, the Bonds, the Note, the Regulatory
Agreement, the Bond Purchase Agreement, the Tax Agreement, any Assignment, the Disbursement
Agreement, the Ground Leases, the Collateral Documents, the Cap Transfer Agreement and the
HOPE VI Borrower Agreements are referred to collectively herein as the “Authority Agreements.”
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
Section 1. The Authority is authorized to submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and amended
Disposition Application to HUD in connection with the Parkside Condo redevelopment project, and
to enter into various Ground Leases and other Authority Agreements with the other party or parties
thereto in substantially the same forms now before the Authority. The forms, terms and provisions
of the Authority Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved. The Chairman, the
Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority be, and each of them hereby
is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver, and, where necessary, the Executive
Advisor to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the
Authority be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix
the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the
Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and
delivered to the other party or parties thereto, in substantially the forms now before the Authority or
with such changes therein as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the
Authority shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such
approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the forms of Authority Agreements now
before the Authority. When the Authority Agreements are executed, attested, sealed and delivered
on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they shall be binding on the Authority. From
and after the execution and delivery of the Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and
agents of the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and
things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority Agreements shall constitute,
and hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the executed Authority Agreements
shall be placed in the official records of the Authority, and shall be available for public inspection at
the office of the Authority.
Section 2. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $15,000,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Indenture. The
Bonds shall bear interest at a variable rate of interest as shall be set forth in the Indenture, as
executed, in no event to exceed the greater of 9% per annum or 125% of the rate for the most recent
date shown in the 20 G.O. Bonds Index of average municipal bond yields as published in the most
recent edition of the Bond Buyer (or any successor publication or index). The Bonds shall mature
on such date or dates as shall be set forth in the Indenture, as executed, but in no event later than
four years following the date of their initial issuance and delivery to the initial purchasers thereof.
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Indenture, as
executed.
11

 Section 3. The Bonds and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the
Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement or from the other sources specified or referred to in the Indenture, which shall be
specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent provided therein.
The Bonds and all other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith shall not be a debt of
the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village, incorporated town or county,
nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be liable thereon, nor in any event
shall the Bonds or such obligations be payable out of any funds or properties other than those
pledged under the Indenture or those other agreements specifically securing the Bonds. The Bonds
shall not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt
limitation or restriction.
Section 4. The forms of the Bonds set forth in the Indenture, subject to appropriate
insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Indenture (as executed and
delivered) be, and the same hereby are approved. The Bonds shall be executed in the name, for and
on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman (or such other
officer authorized by law to execute the Bonds on behalf of the Authority) and attested with the
manual or facsimile signature of its Executive Advisor to the Board, Secretary or Assistant
Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Bonds on behalf of the Authority)
and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. The officers of the Authority
shall cause the Bonds, as so executed and attested, to be delivered to the Trustee for authentication.
When the Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the Authority in the manner contemplated by the
Indenture and this Resolution, they shall represent the approved forms of Bonds of the Authority.
Section 5. The sale of the Bonds to the Bond Purchaser at a purchase price of not less
than 98% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of
delivery, is hereby approved.
Section 6. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive
Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of
them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings of
the Authority (including, without limitation, environmental remediation agreements, investment
agreements, book-entry registration agreements, intercreditor agreements and other agreements
pertaining to the security of the Bonds) and to take such other actions as may be required or
desirable in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of the Authority Agreements,
the financing of costs of the Project, the HOPE VI proceeds and the issuance, sale and delivery of
the Bonds. In addition, subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds, any of the foregoing officers of the
Authority are hereby authorized to enter into amendments to the Authority Agreements or other
agreements or instruments entered into by the Authority in connection with the Bonds (without the
necessity of obtaining approval by the Board of Commissioners of the Authority to such action)
which are not inconsistent with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and which, in the
judgment of the officers executing the same, are not materially adverse to the interests of the
Authority.
Section 7. All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority that are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects, ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 8. The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public hearing
pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such public hearing by and on behalf of
the Authority with respect to the issuance of the Bonds is hereby ratified, authorized and approved.
Section 9. The Authority hereby allocates to the Bonds the “volume cap” reallocated or to
be reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of
the Bonds actually to be issued.
Section 10. The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Expenditures with proceeds of the Bonds.
Section 11. The Bonds, or any one or more series thereof, may be initially issued in bookentry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York
(“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities depository.
12

 Section 12. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if
any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of
this Resolution.
Section 13. All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby
superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 14.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its
passage, as by law provided.

(Item B7)
The Holsten Real Estate Development Corporation and the Cabrini Green Local Advisory Council
development team were the successful respondent to a Request for Qualification Habitat for the
redevelopment of Cabrini Extension North. In May 2005, Holsten, Kimball Hill and Cabrini Green
LAC Community Development Corporation entered into the Parkside Associates, LLC Limited
Liability Company Operating Agreement which governs the parties’ real estate development
relationship and responsibility. In June 2005, the Board approved entering into a Redevelopment
Agreement with Parkside Associates, LLC. Pursuant to the Redevelopment Agreement. CHA
agreed to fund the cost of site remediation. Site preparation for the new development has begun
with the City’s construction of public utility infrastructure. Private utility engineering has been
completed, and negotiations of required service agreement contracts are in progress. All of the
necessary environmental reports and studies have been completed for the development site. The
estimated remediation costs for the Cabrini Extension North Phase I Condo development is
$1,733,527. CHA’s contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and unforeseen
environmental conditions is capped at 200% of this estimated total cost. HUD has indicated that
since a competitive process was engaged to procure the Cabrini Redevelopment Team, the
environmental contract can be awarded to Parkside Old Town I, LLC. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item B7 approves award of contract to Parkside Old Town. By entering into this contract the
following benefits will be realized: continuity of schedule; continuity of activity; and economy of
scale.
Commissioner O’Keefe recused from voting on the following resolution for Item B7.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-91
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated, June 12, 2006,
“Authorization to enter into a contract with Parkside Old Town I, LLC, for
Environmental Remediation activities at Cabrini Extension North Phase I Condo
Redevelopment Program
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a contract for environmental remediation activities with Parkside Old
Town I, LLC an Illinois limited liability company, for a total contract amount not to
exceed $3,467,054 which represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the
Cabrini Extension North Phase 1 Condo Redevelopment Program in support of the
Cabrini Extension North Redevelopment Phase 1 Condo Redevelopment Program.
The term of the Parties contract shall be the receipt of a “No Further Remediation”
letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency with regards to the Cabrini
Extension North Phase 1 Condo Redevelopment Program, two years subject to a one
year extension at CHA’s election.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B2 thru B7 was seconded by Commissioner
Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe (Recused from voting on Item B3, B6 & B7)
Carlos Ponce
13

 Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was held on
Wednesday, June 14th at 2:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The Committee was
presented with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month of May 2006.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
C1 through C7, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves award of contract to Crowe Chizek to provide accounting
services to Resident Management Corporations (RMCs). To assist the RMCs in maintaining
accurate record of their financial transactions, the Authority solicited proposals from qualified firms
to provide accounting services for the RMC’s. These services will include development of policies
and procedures, including procurement practices, staff and management training, presentation to the
Board of Directors, development and implementation of a standardized accounting system. The
RFP was mailed to seventeen vendors and advertised in area newspapers. Of the three proposals
received Crowe Chizek and Company was chosen due to their ability to best meet the Authority’s
needs.
Commissioners Amey and Wiggins recused from voting on the following resolution for Item C1:
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-92
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 12, 2006, entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract
with Crowe Chizek and Company LLC to provide Accounting Services to the
Resident Management Corporations.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a two year contract with Crowe Chizek and Company LLC to provide
accounting services to the Resident Management Corporations in an amount not to
exceed $455,629.50 for the two year period, with a one year option subject to
Board and HUD approval, if required.

(Item C2)
The CHA entered into a contract with CCMSI in 2004 for third party administration (TPA) services
pursuant to a competitive procurement. Responsibilities of the TPA include management of CHA’s
workers compensation, first party property, general, auto, employment practice and public officials’
liability claims and management of workers compensation, general and auto liability claims under
the Private Management Insurance Program (PMIP). Also required was the establishment of a
comprehensive claims and management reporting system (RMIS) which would provide data and
reports that would be used both for internal and external use. The TPA also needed to provide such
services as payment of all claims cost, determination of liability and reporting of all high exposure
claims to the insurance carriers, thereby assisting the Authority in analyzing its risk and associated
costs. During the past two years, CCMSI has provided the CHA with outstanding service and has
performed all tasks expected of the TPA. CCMSI has utilized their expertise in investigation and
settlement of claims on behalf of the CHA/PMIP. Their RMIS allowed the Risk Management
Department to provide data and reports to CHA’s external auditor, insurance broker and senior staff.
CMSI also received favorable claim audits from the insurance carriers. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item C2 approves a contract extension with CCMSI under the same rates, terms and conditions
as provided in the original Contract.

14

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-93
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated June 12, 2006, entitled, “Authorization to exercise the option to
extend Contract No. 0671 with CCMSI for Third Party Administration Services ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 0671 with CCMSI (“Contract”) for
the period of July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007 to provide third party administration
services for a total amount not-to-exceed $265,684 pursuant to the first extension
option.

(Item C3)
The resolution for item C3 approves submittal of the revised FY2006 Performance Funding System
Calculation (PFS). HUD uses the PFS to determine a public housing authority’s eligibility for an
operating subsidy. The PFS is applicable to all public housing authority owned units under an
Annual Contributions Contract. The CHA is required to submit a PFS Calculation detailing the
total operating subsidy for fiscal year 2006. Based on the formula established by HUD as a part of
the Moving-to-Work Demonstration Agreement, the CHA is requesting a revised operating subsidy
in the amount of $175,779,730. This figure was determined by using the formula in the MTW
Agreement. Unlike the procedure used in prior years, HUD has requested each Authority to submit
its PFS Schedule prior to the release of final pro-rations. This is being done in order to determine
the overall need of Public Housing Authorities. Upon release of the final pro-ration amount, the
CHA’s FY2006 Comprehensive Budget will be adjusted accordingly.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-94
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated June 12, 2006,
requesting authorization to submit a revision of the FY2006 Performance Funding
System Calculation to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and
approval of the FY2006 Performance Funding System Performance Calculation
Revision.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the FY2006 Performance Funding System
Calculation Revision and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute and submit the Performance Funding System Calculation and all necessary
related documents to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item C4)
Item C4 approves execution of an Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC), C1014, for Project Nos. IL06P002169, 170, 180, 182 and 233. The Purpose of these Amendments
are as follows: The Increase Development Grant Amendment adds additional Development Funds
to Project 180. The Unit Change Amendment adds to the CHA ACC the 100 units of Project 233,
the Park Boulevard 1B mixed finance development, and removes 40 units from the CHA ACC
reflecting the reformulation of Project 182 for the closing out of units by the creation of new Project
IL06P802236 (236) under ACC C-1150 and the related transfer of funds from Project 182 to
Project 236 as documented by the Decrease Development Grant Amendment. The Addendum is
being modified to move IL06P002169 and 170 into the completed project portion and to establish
Project 233 in the development portion on the CHA ACC. Project 182 is being reformulated so that
completed units can be closed out. Remaining funds of Project 182 will be moved to the Receiver
ACC under Project 236 and the corresponding 40 units to be developed under Project 236 are
removed from the Addendum. Project 180 will be receiving additional funds. Also, one unit is
being moved from Project 213 to Project 201.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-95
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 12,
2006, entitled Recommendation to Execute Amendment to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 for Project Nos.
IL06P002169, 170, 180, 182 and 233.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

15

 THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) shall enter into the Amendments
modifying the terms of the Annual Contributions Contract C-1014 with U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) to (1) add funds
to Project IL06P002180 by an Increase Development Grant Amendment; (2)
reformulate Project IL06P002182 (“182”), to allow for the closing out of
units thereunder, and thus transfer funds from Project 182 through a Decrease
Development Grant Amendment to new Project IL06P802236 under the
Annual Contribution Contract C-1150 between HUD and Daniel E. Levin and
the Habitat Company as the Receiver for the CHA and remove the
corresponding 40 units under Project 182 from CHA ACC under a Unit
Change Amendment; (3) add 100 units of Project IL06P002233, the Park
Boulevard 1B, mixed finance development to the CHA ACC by the aforesaid
Unit Change Amendment; and (4) modify the Addendum to the ACC to
reflect the foregoing and to move Projects IL06P002169 and 170 to
completed project section of the Addendum and move one unit from Project
IL06P002213 to Project IL06P002201.

FURTHERMORE, the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to execute such Amendments to the Annual Contributions Contract
C-1014 in quintuplicate and the Custodian and Keeper of Records is
authorized and directed to attest and impress the official seal of the Chicago
Housing Authority on each such counterpart. The aforesaid Amendments
shall be substantially in the attached form.
(Item C5)
The CHA requires a consultant to analyze CHA’s Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program
(HCVP) and make recommendations for its administration, and develop statements of work that
may be utilized to solicit interested parties to submit proposals for the administration of HCVP.
The CHA’s overall purpose is to increase competition for the administration of the HCVP, reduce
costs, improve internal controls and decrease cycle times to service tenants and landlords when it
re-solicits for a HCVP Administrator. Specifically, the CHA anticipates that the consultant will:
explore how other HCVP are organized and administered; identify and interview subject matter
experts in the field; identify innovative solutions (within and outside of Public Housing industry)
and recommend alternative operating models; promote competition into the administration of
HCVP; reduce overall program costs by at least 10%; ensure adequate internal controls are
maintained; and Reduce turnaround time in servicing tenants and landlords and improve all
customer service. Accordingly, the CHA released a Request for Proposal in December 2005. The
solicitation was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. Five proposals were
received and evaluated. Following the initial evaluation, two respondents, were determined to be in
the competitive range. After oral presentations and negotiations, the evaluation committee
determined that Nan McKay and Associates had the best ability to provide the required consulting
services at a reasonable price. The resolution for item C5, therefore, approves award of contract to
Nan McKay.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-96
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 12, 2006
entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter into a contract with Nan McKay &
Associates, Inc. for consulting services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to negotiate and enter into a contract with Nan McKay and Associates, Inc for an
eighteen (18) month term to provide consulting services to the CHA for its Section 8
Housing Choice Voucher Program in an amount not-to-exceed $876,490.00.

(Item C6)
The resolution for Item C6 approves the execution of contract with Linton Real Estate Development
for the lease agreement at 1550 W. 88th Street. The Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) Program has
over 36,000 participants in the City of Chicago with over 11,000 of those participants living in the
southwestern corridor of the City. In order to provide better services and access to Special Programs
included in the HCV Program, the CHA has decided to extend and expand the Satellite office on the
southwest side of Chicago. In October 2003, the CHA initially executed a Lease Agreement with
Linton Real Estate, Inc. for a three year term. The initial Lease was due to expire in mid-October
2006. However, due to numerous expansion needs for the Program, Linton Real Estate
Development agreed to a mutual termination of the Lease and to execute a new Lease Agreement
for a cumulative 18,000 square feet of office space at the Premises. The CHA’s HCV satellite
16

 office has served families on the southwest side of Chicago by conducting workshops on Family
Self Sufficiency (FSS), Choose to Own (CTO), the Mobility Program and landlord education. This
site has also been used by CHA/CHAC staff to assist clients with paperwork, respond to inquiries
from both tenants and landlords and refer families to supportive services on-site. There will be staff
available on-site from CHAC, Inc., and the Service Connector Program which allows easy access to
counselors and/or staff for assistance in various areas. The additional CHAC staff being added to
the office will now include the entire Inspections Department for CHAC. The Premises has ample
free parking and easy access to public transportation for Section 8 applicants and participants.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006 – CHA- 97
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 12, 2006,
entitled “Authorization to Ratify the Execution of a New Lease Agreement for the
Premises Located at 1550 W. 88th Street, Chicago, Illinois”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY,
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee’s execution of a new Lease Agreement between Linton Real Estate and
Development & Management Co. Inc. and the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA)
for a cumulative 18,000 square feet of office space (within the 1st and 2nd Floors) at
the Premises known as 1550 W. 88th Street, Chicago, Illinois. The ratification of this
Lease Agreement commits the CHA to a lease term of three (3) years at an initial
monthly rental rate of $18,750. The Total Base Rent for the three year term is
$765,000.00 plus any proportionate share of real estate taxes and operating expenses.
The one (1) year Extension Option rent shall be at a 7% increase from the third year
annual rent.

(Item C7)
The resolution for Item C7 approves a lease agreement between the CHA and Major Adams
Community Committee (MACC) for the leasing of approximately 12,000 square feet of nondwelling space at 125 North Hoyne. The MACC is a not-for-profit agency that provides youth and
family-oriented programs to the residents of the Henry Horner/West Haven community. The
MACC currently provides homework assistance, tutoring, access to computers, recreational
activities, music and dance instruction, fitness and wellness instruction, sport leagues, and Teen
Reach programs to approximately 400 residents. The MACC previously occupied space at another
CHA-owned building, 1836 West Washington. At the beginning of 2005, the CHA vacated and
demolished this building in order to make land available for the next phase of redevelopment at
Henry Horner. As a result, the CHA made a commitment to assist the MACC with finding a new
home at a location that would allow them to continue to make their programs readily accessible to
the residents of the Henry Horner/West Haven community.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 12, 2006, entitled “Request for Authorization to Enter into a
Lease Agreement to Lease CHA-Owned, Non-Dwelling Premises Located at 125
North Hoyne.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a lease agreement to lease its non-dwelling premises located at
125 North Hoyne.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C7 was seconded by Commissioner
Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey (Recused from voting on Item C1 only)
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins (Recused from voting on Item C1 only)
Sandra Young
17

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

18

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 