MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 15, 2003
The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual Meeting on
Tuesday, July 15, 2003 at 8:30 a.m. at the Douglas Park Field House, located at 1401 South
Sacramento in Chicago.
The Chairperson announced that the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Housing Authority was being
held in accordance with the Bylaws of the Authority for the election of Officers. The agenda for
the Annual meeting also included a presentation of Certificates of Appreciation to the Local
Advisory Councils and report from the Chief Executive Officer on Plan accomplishments, to date.
Chairperson Gilliam then introduced the Honor Guard of the 2nd Battalion, 24th Marines, 4th
Division for the Posting of the Colors. Immediately after, Derek Hill, CHA Press Secretary, led
the audience in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance. Commissioner Harris’ Centering Thoughts and
the delivery of the Homily by Reverend Johnny Miller of Mt. Vernon Baptist Church which
focused on the topic of empowering ‘CHAnge’ by having residents convert opportunity into
action, then followed.
On behalf of the Board of Commissioners and staff, Commissioner Sandra Young then presented
Certificates of Appreciation to the Local Advisory Council Presidents for their continuous support
in the Plan For Transformation.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board. Immediately after, Camille Jackson, Dalphine AllenJasper and Bill Lueninghoener, residents of the CHA, then shared their thoughts and feelings on
how the Plan For Transformation not only changed their physical space but their perceptions on
where they live and how they live.
The meeting was then called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; News
Media; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:

1

 Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then announced that he would forego his prepared speech
and in its place gave an impassioned and heartfelt speech on what he intends and aspires to
accomplish for all residents of the CHA. Mr. Peterson then thanked the resident leadership,
Board of Commissioners and his staff for their unfailing support during his tenure at the CHA and
concluded his discourse by saying that he would continue fighting to end the cycle of poverty so
prevalent in CHA.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Vice-Chairperson. A Motion
was made by Commissioner Gates and properly seconded by Commissioner Amey to nominate
Commissioner Lori Healey for the position of Vice-Chairperson. There being no other nomination
on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval for the reelection of Commissioner Lori Healy as Vice Chairperson of the Chicago Housing Authority.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records. A Motion was made by Commissioner Harris and properly seconded by Commissioner
Ivers to nominate Lee Chuc-Gill for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records. There being
no other nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous
approval for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records of the Chicago
Housing Authority.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting
held on June 17, 2003. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were unanimously
approved and accepted as submitted.
Commissioner Gates, Committee Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then
presented the Joint Finance & Audit and Operations & Facilities Committees’ report. Per
Commissioner Gates, the Committees met on Wednesday, July 9, 2003, at the Corporate Office
located at 626 West Jackson. Staff presented to the Committee the Treasury and Cash Flow
Report as of June 30, 2003.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for Items
A1 through A10 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Joint Finance &
Audit and Operations & Facilities Committees:
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget. The impact of this
budget revision resulted in the following increase and/or decrease due to the realignment of the
budget to reflect current activities or projected spending in stated line item: the General Fund
increased by $3,439,269.00, for a fund total of $876,685,389.00; the HOPE VI Fund increased by
$1,000,000 for a fund total of $53,876,934; the City State fund decreased by $20,868 for a fund
total of $11,554,549.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA- 95
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated June 13, 2003,
entitled “Approval of the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“Approval of the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:
1.
2.

3.

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of
Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with
the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago Housing
Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2

 THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves Modification No. G-10 with F.H. Paschen/S.N. Nielsen to
complete the following additional work needed at various senior housing locations: electrical and
plumbing repairs, installation of new door and door frames, abatement and installation of new
floor tile, bathroom improvements and new kitchen equipment. This contract modification is
necessary due to concealed and/or changed field conditions or applicable building codes not
determinable prior to the preparation of the specifications and execution of the original contract;
design and/or specification corrections and owner directed changes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-96
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 20, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification G-10 to Contract No. 9698 with
F.H. Paschen/S.N. Nielsen for general renovation work at various Senior Housing
locations”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification G-10 to Contract No. 9698 with F.H.
Paschen/S.N. Nielsen for an amount not-to-exceed $168,987.00 for the general
renovation work at various senior housing locations and the new total fixed price
amount of Contract No. 9698, including all contract modifications through G-10, is
$22,814,970.27. The time for completion of work under the contract will remain
unchanged.

(Item A3)
The Wentworth Park Field House and the Property Management Office are separate buildings but
covered under one roof structure. The resolution for Item A3 amends the Chicago Park District
(CPD) Memorandum of Agreement as it relates to the Wentworth Park Field House renovation and
grants approval for the Park District to renovate and administer the entire roof replacement under
one contract. The total roof replacement cost is $204,875 of which CHA’s share will be 50% or
$102,437.50 The benefits of this transaction include aesthetic consistency, economies of scale,
2003 pricing, maintaining roof integrity and a complete warranty for one roof system.
Commissioner Amey recused from voting on this item only
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-97
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 13, 2003,
requesting authorization to 1). Amend the Chicago Park District (CPD)
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) as it relates to the renovation of the
Wentworth Gardens Park Field House, 2). To approve $102,437.50 for the roof
replacement of the Wentworth Management office that will be done as part of the
CPD’s Field House Roof Replacement contract and 3). To execute other documents
as necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to 1). Amend the Chicago Park District (CPD) Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)
as it relates to the renovation of the Wentworth Gardens Park Field House, 2). To
approve $102,437.50 for the roof replacement of the Wentworth Management
office that will be done as part of the CPD’s Field House Roof Replacement
contract and 3). To execute other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing.

3

 (Item A4)
The CHA/Habitat issued a Request For Qualification (RFQ) to competitively solicit qualified firms
to provide off-site replacement housing units to the CHA for public housing eligible families. The
RFQ was advertised in area newspapers and the CHA directly solicited 387 firms. Through the
RFQ, CHA/Habitat sought Developer/Development teams/owners of new properties and owners of
existing properties who are interested in receiving financial assistance from CHA/Habitat in return
for settling aside no more than 30% of the units in each property for public-housing eligible
families. The successful respondents to the RFQ would become pre-qualified developer/owners
eligible to propose and close the development transaction or dedication of specific numbers of
public housing units under a mixed-finance arrangement with CHA/Habitat for a two year period.
The resolution for Item A4, accordingly, establishes a pool of pre-qualified housing developers,
development teams and multi-unit building owners for delivering off-site replacement units.
Commissioner Gates recused from voting on this item only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to maintain a pool of prequalified housing developers,
development teams and multi-unit building owners for the specific intention of
delivering off-site replacement housing to the Chicago Housing Authority for
public housing eligible families.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to maintain a
pool of pre-qualified housing developers, development teams and multi-unit
building owners for the specific intention of delivering off-site replacement housing
units to the CHA for eligible families under a mixed-finance arrangements with
CHA/The Habitat for a two year period (from the date of the “Notice of
Qualification”). The resultant individual acquisition transactions will be presented
to the Board of Commissioners as they are negotiated and will be subject to HUD
and any other necessary approvals.

Firms:
Brinshore Development, LLC
L. R. Development Company
Redevelopment Services Corporation
Galvan & Associate/Signature/Housing Properties
Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development
Nia Architects (MBE)/Signature Development

The Michaels Development Company
4301 N. Sheridan, LLC
Bonheur Development Corporation (MBE)
Near West Side Community Development
The Renaissance Companies

(Item A5 & A6 & A7)
The resolutions for Item A5, A6 and A7 approves the form of lease and Resident Selection Plans
for the new Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A, Domain Lofts (Cabrini) and Madden Wells Phase I-A
developments. The owner entities, East Lake/West End I-A, L.P. (Rockwell), Chicago
Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation (Cabrini) and Madden Wells Phase I-A
Associates, LLC (Madden/Wells), respectively, have an interest and desire to implement their own
lease forms and policies that encourages consistent community standards for the effective
management of their mixed income developments. The lease and policies have to accommodate
various aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics of mixed finance transactions.
The approval of the form of leases and Resident Selection Plans is required to facilitate the closing
of these development transactions. The Resident Selection Plans have been subject to extensive
negotiation among the CHA, the developer/owner entity, the Working Group and the Local
Advisory Council. Notice for the public comment period was given in accordance with applicable
requirements and consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments in finalizing the
documents with the Developer and the owner entity.
(Item A5)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 13, 2003,
entitled “Authorization for Approval of the Form of Lease and Resident Selection
Plan for the new Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A Development and to amend the
4

 CHA’s Admission and Occupancy Policy to Incorporate Such Document as an
Addendum Thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and
Resident Selection Plan in substantially the form presented to the Board for the new
Rockwell Gardens Phase I-A development (a new name for this development is to
be determined) and hereby approves an amendment to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as
an addenda. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby
authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including changes based on
HUD requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice
and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A6)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-100
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 13, 2003,
entitled “Authorization for Approval of the Form of Lease and Tenant Selection
Plan for the Domain Lofts (Cabrini) Development and to amend the CHA’s
Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate such Document as an Addendum
Thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and Tenant
Selection Plan in substantially the form presented to the Board for the Domain Lofts
(Cabrini) development and hereby approves an amendment to the Chicago Housing
Authority’s Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved forms as
an addenda. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby
authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including changes based on
HUD requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice
and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A7)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-101
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 14, 2003,
entitled “Authorization for Approval of the Form of Lease and Tenant Selection
Plan for the New Madden Wells Phase I-A Development and to amend the CHA
Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate such Document as an Addendum
Thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and Tenant
Selection Plan in substantially the form presented to the Board for the new Madden
Wells Phase I-A development and hereby approves an amendment to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Admission and Occupancy Policy to incorporate the approved
forms as an addenda. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer is
hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including changes based
on HUD requirements, or such changes, if any, resulting from any applicable notice
and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the
Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A7.
(Item A8)
Pursuant to a 2001 Request for Proposal issued by Habitat and the City of Chicago’s Department
of Planning, the development team of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC, or its affiliate, was
selected to be the developer for the redevelopment to the CHA’s Madden/Wells Site. In August
5

 2002, the CHA Board approved entering into a Redevelopment Agreement with Oakwood
Boulevard Associates, LLC. Pursuant to the Agreement, CHA is required to fund the cost of site
remediation for pre-existing conditions on the entire development (other than costs the Developer
would have incurred in any event). CHA’s contractual responsibility is capped at 200% of the
estimated total cost. The estimated remediation cost for this development is $1,560,000 for a total
of $3,120,000. HUD has indicated that since a competitive process was engaged to procure the
Madden/Wells Phase I Redevelopment Team and since the engineered barrier approach to
remediation involves construction elements to be performed post-closing, there is justification to
enter into a contract with Oakwood Boulevard for remediation activities. Awarding this contract
to Oakwood Boulevard will also result in continuity of schedule, continuity of activity and
economy of scale. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A8 approves contract with Oakwood
Boulevard Associates, LLC for environmental remediation activities at the Madden/Wells Phase
1A Development site.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on this item.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-102
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated July 1, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, LLC, or its Affiliate for Environmental Remediation Activities at the
Madden/Wells Phase 1A Development Site”
THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC, or its
affiliate (upon approval of MBE/WBE and Section 3 compliance plans by CHA’s
Compliance Department) for environmental remediation activities at the
Madden/Wells Phase 1A development in support of the Madden/Wells
Redevelopment Site for a total amount not to exceed $3,120,000 (the maximum
remediation amount). The term of the contract with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, LLC, or its affiliate shall be the earlier of: the receipt of a “No Further
Remediation” letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency with regard
to the Madden/Wells Phase 1A Redevelopment Site, or two years, subject to a one
year extension if approved by HUD.

(Item A9)
Leo Burnett agreed to design and implement a pro-bono campaign, which has a market value of
approximately $1.5 million, to improve the image of CHA. As a prerequisite for undertaking this
project, the CHA was required to commit to expend up to $200,000 in order to purchase printed
materials, billboards, posters and advertising space needed for production of the developed and
approved campaign. Leo Burnett has worked for the past nine months on this project and is ready
to proceed with the printing of materials for the outreach campaign. Leo Burnett will facilitate the
production and placement of these materials with traditional advertising vendors and with sister
city agencies such as Chicago Transit Authority, the Chicago Park District and the Chicago Public
Schools. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A9 approves funding in the amount of $200,000 for
the implementation of CHA’s outreach and marketing campaign designed by Leo Burnett.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003 – CHA-103
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated June 30, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to Provide Funding for Leo Burnett’s Implementation of the
CHA’s Outreach and Marketing Campaign.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to provide funding for the implementation of CHA’s outreach and
marketing campaign, designed by Leo Burnett, in an amount not-to-exceed
$200,000.

(Item A10)
6

 The resolution for Item A10 approves a contract with Constellation Energy Group since the
existing agreement with ComEd expired on April 30, 2003. The CHA released a Request for
Proposal for electrical supply to seven Alternative Retail Electric Suppliers and received two bids.
The lowest responsive and responsible bidder was Constellation New Energy Inc. Constellation
New Energy Inc. will provide a portfolio price for the energy commodity that accommodates all
640 CHA accounts. Constellation New Energy will also provide a usage band of 30% in the nonsummer months and 15% in the summer months. In addition, Constellation New Energy will
provide the CHA a free web-based energy information management platform that the CHA can
utilize to view bills and access energy related information. This resolution also ratifies approval
granted CHA to lock in its current CTC rates with ComEd through December 31, 2006.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-104
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 2, 2003, entitled “Authorization to enter into a Service
Agreement with Constellation New Energy, Inc. for CHA’s electricity requirements
for a twenty-one month period with one year option and lock-in CHA to current
CTC Rates with Commonwealth Edison”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a service agreement with Constellation New Energy, Inc. for
electrical services in an amount not-to-exceed $13,000,000.00 for a twenty-one
month period with a one year option, and ratifies CHA’s locking its to current CTC
rates for all eligible accounts with Commonwealth Edison through December 31,
2006.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A10 was seconded by
Commissioner Young the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey (recused from voting on item A3 only)
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates (recused from voting on item A4 only)
Lori Healey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young (recused from voting on items A7 & A8)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Joint Finance & Audit and Operations & Facilities Committees
report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her report.
Per Commissioner Young, the Committee met on Wednesday, July 9, 2003, at the Corporate
Office located at 626 West Jackson. The Committee was presented with reports on Horner and
Madden/Wells Needs Assessment and Case Management Approach.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee:
(Item B1)
In August 2002, the Board approved a Development Agreement with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, the selected development team for the Madden/Wells redevelopment project. The
Community Builders (TCB), as a joint venture partner and lead developer with Oakwood
Boulevard Associates, is responsible for the overall management of the Phase I redevelopment
process. This includes preparing funding applications, obtaining financing, construction, and
coordination of community and supportive services. The resolution for Item B1 approves a
contract with TCB to provide community and supportive services to families that have chosen to
return to the Madden/Wells mixed-income community. Case management services will be
specifically designed to address site specific criteria and barriers a family may face in meeting the
7

 criteria and thus returning to the Madden/Wells community. The scope of services also includes
outreach and engagement, assessment, case management and referrals. Services will also be
available to residents, post occupancy in order to help families to successfully maintain their
housing once they move in.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on this item.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-105
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 17, 2003, entitled ”Authorization to enter into a contract
with The Community Builders to provide community and supportive services for
the Wells-Madden Park Community”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter a contract with The Community Builders, to provide community and
supportive services to the Madden-Wells community in an amount not to exceed
$650,000, subject to HUD Approval.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves contract with Leadership Council for Metropolitan Open
Communities to provide a Gautreaux –style mobility counseling program – a voluntary program to
provide more comprehensive counseling service to CHA families and encourage mobility moves
to opportunity areas. Gautreaux-style counseling is more specialized than other relocation
counseling as it includes group briefings, readiness assessments, pre-inspection escorts, CHA prequalification processing, as well as more intense and aggressive landlord outreach.
The
implementation of this program will increase housing opportunity for families selecting Section 8
as their permanent housing choice. Since few organizations can provide Gautreaux-style
counseling services and/or are presently providing counseling services to CHA residents via other
programs, it is in the best interest of the Authority to enter into contract with Leadership Council
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-106
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 30, 2003, entitled “Authorization to enter into a Contract
with Leadership Council for Metropolitan Open Communities, Inc. for Gautreaux
Style Mobility Counseling”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a contract with Leadership Council for Metropolitan Open
Communities, Inc. for a Gautreaux-Style mobility counseling for a twenty-four
month period, in an amount not-to-exceed $l,552,950.00, subject to HUD approval.

(Item B3)
According to Federal regulations, the CHA is required to maintain the Administrative Plan for
Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs that
outlines the rules and procedures necessary to administer the voucher program.
The
Administrative Plan is also used by the program administrator, CHAC, Inc., to ensure proper
administration of the voucher program according to polices set forth by the CHA Board of
Commissioners. Based on modifications to the administrative procedures to the Housing Choice
Voucher Program and to bring the Administrative Plan into conformance with updates and
amendments to the Federal regulations, the CHA has amended the Administrative Plan.
Accordingly, the Resolution for Item B3 approves amendment to the Administrative Plan for the
Housing-Choice Voucher, Project Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-107
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 24, 2003,
entitled “Approval of the Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers,
Project-Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs;”

8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
plans and resolutions related to the approval of such plan.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based Vouchers and
Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated July 15, 2003, attached hereto as Exhibit
A.

THAT,

the revised Administrative Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project-Based
Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs dated July 15, 2003, shall be
effective August 1, 2003.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B3 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Lori Healey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young (recused from voting on Item B1)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the Annual and Regular Meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:
S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 