Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
November 20, 2012
Pomeroy Senior Apartments – 5650 N. Kenmore
Name

1

2

3

William Lawrence Scott
III

Francine Washington

George Blakemon

Question/Comment

Response

Mr. Ponce, one of the first meetings I attended I was
impressed that you brought students to witness
democracy in action. Last month, I spoke about CHA
youth. I got the opportunity recently to go to the
Chicago Board of Education. I would like for CHA to
identify more of the student leaders and get student
credit for them to start attending City meetings - such
as CHA meetings. I would like CHA to send youth to
the Presidential Inauguration. We have 100’s of good
young people and we need to shine the spotlight on
them. I am fired up about this, and it gives me
something to do.
[Commissioner] Ponce, I am going to miss you, I love
disagreeing with you. I would like to say, Lake Parc is
being renovated. I spoke with Sanjiv, I have some
concerns. I am not going to go into them now, but I
have these concerns. Sanjiv is going to look at this,
and then we'll see what happens.
I live to serve. I don't serve to live. That means I don't
serve to get paid. We need good public servants. I
am black. I have seen CHA dismantle government
housing. I have seen the process of coming back,
which never happens. I have seen black leadership
be greedy and in cahoots to displace CHA residents.
[30 seconds remaining] It says 30 seconds, you didn't
say that for everyone else. We always want to silence
those who disagree with us. We don't want to be
transparent. The constitution says blacks should get
all kinds of services. They are letting illegal
immigrants come in and displace black people. I am
going to walk away, be respectful, and I will be back.
You should have a time clock.

1

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

Your comment has been received.

 4

5

Tracey Champion

Jackie Paige

I was going through a hardship, I had to go through
Victims Assistance. I want to give thanks to Mary
Howard and Eric Garrett and Crystal Palmer. I
appreciate you all. They say the system doesn't work
- the staff has been great. But we need to rewrite the
Victims Assistance system - it's not great and we need
to rework it. I want to say thank you to my
management, I appreciate you. I appreciate CHA.
1) First I would like to say thank you to Mr. Woodyard
- I wrote you a letter on an issue, and the issue was
resolved by Sydney Jones. You do listen. I
appreciate what you said about the homes and your
open mindness - it shows that we are listened to. You
are open-minded about ABLA homes.
2) I am speaking not to say anything against Resident
Services, it's about programs in general. When Ms.
Howard gave her presentation, the number of people
impacted were less than 1%. I am wondering what
kind of a system do you have in place to address how
money is being used for Resident Services? For
rehab you have a formula - do you have something
like that for all programs, to show that the programs
are reaching residents in a meaningful way?

2

Resident Services will meet with Ms. Champion privately to
better understand her concerns.

1) Thank you for your comment.
2) Mary Howard's presentation was about youth programming
only. The engagement number reflected only the number of
opportunities CHA offered youth during the summer of 2012, not
all services CHA offers. While there is no specific formula,
overall, about 70 percent of CHA’s public housing residents are
engaged with their providers. The CHA tracks and measures
the success of its programs to ensure that residents are
impacted in a meaningful way.

 