May 13, 2015

Item No. 7

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A PRELIMINARY COMMITMENT LETTER
FOR 7245 N. ROGERS AVENUE
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution authorizing the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee execute a preliminary commitment letter for 7245 N. Rogers
Avenue.
CORPORATE GOAL
The proposed preliminary commitment letter supports Plan Forward Goal #1: coordinating public and
private investment to develop healthy, vibrant communities.
The purpose of this resolution is to execute a preliminary letter of commitment for a PRA Housing
Assistance Payments Contract for eleven units detailed below. This preliminary letter of commitment
will be valid for one year in order to allow the developer to secure development and construction
financing from other sources. Once all financing is secured, the full development plans will be submitted
to CHA Board prior to execution of any contract.
FUNDING: Housing Choice Voucher Program
PROPERTY SUMMARY
Development
Name
7245 N. Rogers
Avenue

Community /
Ward /
Alderman
Rogers Park/
49th Ward/
Joseph Moore

Developer / Owner

Target
Population

PRA
Units

Total Units

Chicago Metropolitan
Housing Development
Corporation

Families

11

42

Initial
Estimated
Contract
$77,544/year

Total
Estimated
Contract
$1,341,001
(15 years)

Application
Received

CONTRACT SUMMARY
Development
Name

Funding

Contract
Term

Contract
Type

7245 N. Rogers
Avenue

Housing Choice
Voucher
Program

15 Years

AHAP/ HAP
Contract

March 2015

 Proposed Development: 7245 N. Rogers Avenue
 Rehabilitation of 3-story elevator building containing 42 units in the Rogers Park community
area consisting of 12 studios, 24 one-bedroom and 6 two-bedroom units. Three studios, 6 onebedroom and 2 two-bedroom units will be PRA for families.

Building amenities will include a large community room and computer center and laundry
facilities on each floor.
Developer Background
 CMHDC was established in 1982 to serve as a financial instrument CHA to provide funding for
affordable housing development. In 1997, CMHDC transitioned into a non-profit corporation
focusing on the development and operations of affordable housing.
 In 2010, CMHDC created CMHDC Development Services to acquire and redevelop properties
outside of the city of Chicago. Combined, the two entities have developed and currently own
and operate over 800 affordable units.
 In August 2014, CMHDC was approved as one of CHA’s Pre-qualified Development Teams.
 Skender Construction will be the general contractor and Ludwig & Company will be the
property manager.
Conclusion
The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable Chicago
Housing Authority Board policies and all applicable federal laws.
The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute a preliminary commitment letter for 7245 N.
Rogers Avenue.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-41

WHEREAS,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 13, 2015 requesting authorization to execute a preliminary commitment
letter valid for one year for PRA assistance for 7245 N. Rogers Avenue;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a preliminary commitment letter valid for one year for PRA assistance for 7245 N.
Rogers Avenue.

3

 