Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of January 16, 2007
Patrick Sullivan Apartments, 1633 West Madison, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/
1.

Helen Chambers

2.

Donna Underwood

3.

Michele Towns

4.

Melvin Bailey

5.

Deverra Beverly

6.

Mary Baldwin

Question/Comment
Welcomed Commissioners and general public to
Patrick Sullivan Apartments.
Requesting reimbursement for expenses
associated with temporary Section 8 move.
Mold in new unit, on the floor and on the walls due
to sewer back-up. Requesting carpet to be
replaced.
Are Rockwell contractors required to hire
Rockwell residents until work is done?
Residents are coming to her with issues instead of
property manager.
Residents are not being hired under Section 3
requirements. CHA management should require
general contractors to abide by provisions under
Section 3.
Requesting that resident leadership be informed
of personnel changes directly affecting Asset
Management.
Continued concern about lack of Service
Connector Program in Rockwell.
Rockwell residents still not being hired under
Section 3.

7.

Karen Pride

8.

Michel Pearson

Acknowledged Commissioners for support during
her tenure.
Has submitted recertification paperwork to Urban
Properties at least 5X and paperwork keeps
coming up missing. To date, has reached out to
Urban Properties, CHA and HUD and issues has
not been resolved. Received 5 day notice and
staff at Urban will not address her ongoing
concern.

Status
Comments Noted.
On Wednesday January 2007, the unit was inspected for mold
by Site Superintendent and CHA staff.
After careful review, it was determined no mold existed in unit.
At residents’ request, wall was painted and the carpet in hallway
has been replaced.
The CHA’s preference is for Rockwell residents to be hired first.
Please note these decisions are also based on skills and other
issues that could result in a residents’ not continuing to be
employed.
Contractors that do not abide under provisions of Section 3 are
subject to a penalty.

The CHA’s Asset Management department currently has a
system in place in which all property managers are apprised of
any relevant personnel changes in the Asset Management
Division. Comments Noted.
All of the Rockwell buildings have been closed. All families who
lived in Rockwell have moved to another CHA development or
into the HCV program. In either case, they will be serviced by
the office in their community area. In addition, there is a
service provider on-site at Rockwell to assist the residents
who have returned to mixed income housing.
Comments Noted
Staff continues to investigate this issue.

 