MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
January 21, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
January 21, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at the Lake Parkside Senior Apartments, 5670 West Lake in
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson’s report
consisted of an update on the Hilliard and Horner rehab projects. Mr. Peterson then highlighted
many of the items on the agenda seeking Board approval, including the renewal of CHA’s cable
show, the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Mayor’s Office of People with Disabilities to
inspect units and the purchase of 16 one-bedroom units in the old Montgomery Ward building.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session whereby Chairperson Gilliam
announced that Commissioner Gates had joined the meeting during Executive Session.

1

 At this time the Chairperson introduced the Minutes for the months of November and December
2002. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes for the following meetings were
unanimously accepted:
Regular Board Meeting of November19, 2002
Regular Board Meeting of December 17, 2002 and
Special Teleconference Meeting of December 19, 2002
Commissioner Davis then presented a Motion to amend the Minutes of the December 17, 2002
Meeting to correct Resolution No. 2002-CHA-182, due to a scrivener error where there was an
inadvertent additional zero in the not-to-exceed amount and a technical error in the use of term
sole-source. The Minutes of the Meeting of December 17, 2002 were unanimously approved as
amended. The Minutes of the Meeting of November 19, 2002 and Special Teleconference
Meeting of December 19, 2002, were also unanimously approved as presented.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
An Omnibus Motion to approve the Resolutions for Item 1 through Item 5 discussed in
Executive Session was then presented by Commissioner Gates.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-1
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 19,
2002, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter
of John Herrera vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 98 WC 9382, and pay a
settlement amount of $155,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of John Herrera vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, 98 WC 9382; and pay a settlement amount of $155,000.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-2
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 19,
2002, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter
of Jan Kobylarczyk vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 99 WC 19355 and 99 WC
19356 and pay a total settlement amount of $150,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Jan Kobylarczyk vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, 99 WC 19355 and 99 WC 19356; and pay a total settlement
amount of $150,000.

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-3
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 19,
2002, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter
of Laura Williams vs. Chicago Housing Authority, a Municipal Corporation, 99 L
7737, and pay a settlement amount of $200,000.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Laura Williams vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, a Municipal Corporation, 99 L 7737, and pay a settlement

2

 amount of $200,000.

(Executive Session Item 4)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-4
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 19,
2002, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter
of God’s Gang vs. Chicago Housing Authority, 02 CH 05932 and pay a
settlement amount of $250,000.00.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of God’s Gang vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, and pay a settlement amount of $250,000.00.

(Executive Session Item 5)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-5
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 3, 2003, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for December 2002.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for
December 2002.

The Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 through 5 was seconded by
Commissioner Davis and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
A Motion to approve Gene ral Item No. 1 was then presented by Commissioner Gates.
(General Item No. 1)
The resolution for General Item 1 ensures that the Board’s selection of Oakwood Boulevard
Associates conforms to all pertinent regulations, policies and statutes.

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-6
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed a Board Letter dated December 18,
2002, requesting that the Chicago Housing Authority confirm and reapprove the
selection of the Oakwood Boulevard Associates as the development team for
Phase I of the Madden Park, Ida B. Wells, and Darrow Homes redevelopment
project; and

3

 WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners determines that it is in the best interest of the
Chicago Housing Authority to re-select and confirm Oakwood Boulevard
Associates to lead the development team and to re-enter into any agreements with
it;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners (i) confirms and reapproves the selection of
Oakwood Boulevard Associates (a joint venture of The Community Builders,
Inc., Granite Development, Inc., and Thrush Development) to lead the
development team for Phase I of the Madden Park, Ida B. Wells, and Darrow
Homes redevelopment project and (ii) reapproves and confirms all matters
approved by and actions taken by or for the Chicago Housing Authority with
respect to Oakwood Boulevard Associates.
The Board of Commissioners further authorizes and directs the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to re-enter into any agreements with Oakwood Boulevard
Associates. All such contracts shall comply with all applicable federal regulations
and contracts.
This resolution is effective upon its adoption.

The Motion to adopt the Resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Healey
and the result of a roll-call vote was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers

Recused:

Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Earnest Gates then presented the following report. Per Commissioner Gates, a
Joint Operations & Finance Committee meeting was held on Wednesday January 15, 2003, at
1:00 p.m. at the Corporate Office, 626 W. Jackson. Todd Gomez, Chief Financial Officer and
his staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of December 31,
2003.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Joint
Operations and Finance Committees:

(Item A1)
CHA is committed to expanding the availability of accessible units for people with disabilities
throughout its inventory. Since 2002, the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities (MOPD)
has conducted architectural accessibility reviews on drawings for all properties prior to
undergoing substantial rehabilitation or redevelopment to ensure compliance with CHA’s
accessibility goals, as well as all local, state and Federal requirements. However, accessibility
reviews were not conducted on properties during or after the construction phase. MOPD and
CHA believe that unit inspections during and after construction would help to ensure that the
units are built according to plans and in accordance with federal and state requirements. In
cases where MOPD discovers units or buildings are not in compliance, MOPD shall provide

4

 staff support to help decide on and implement suggested remedies with CHA and its
contractors. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities for an accessibility review program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-7
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated December 31, 2002,
entitled “Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Chicago Housing Authority and the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an intergovernmental agreement between the Chicago
Housing Authority ("CHA") and the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities
to establish an accessibility inspection program during the construction and
rehabilitation of CHA units, for a fee of $120,000, for a one-year term, with three,
one-year option to extend, subject to Board approval and, if required, HUD
approval.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves submittal of an application to HUD for disposition of land,
approves submittal of a Mixed Finance Proposal to HUD and approves execution of other
documents necessary for the Madden/Wells redevelopment project.
The Madden/Wells
redevelopment calls for a mixed- income, mixed-tenure community of approximately 3,000
units, of which 1,000 will be targeted to public housing residents; approximately 680 will be
affordable, and approximately 1,320 will be market rate. The first phase of redeve lopment is the
construction of 508 units primarily on the former Madden Park and Darrow sites, with a small
portion of units on the Ida B. Wells site. In Phase 1, there are 183 units for sale and 325 rental
units. The Oakwood Boulevard Associates (“OBA”) development team, comprised of The
Community Builders, Inc., Granite Development, and Thrush-Madden, Inc. was selected as the
result of an RFP issued by the CHA and The Habitat Company, as the court-appointed
Gautreaux Receiver for the CHA, and the City, for the redevelopment of Madden/Wells site.
The units for sale will be developed by Thrush-Madden, Inc., and Granite Development
Corporation. Of the 183 units for sale, approximately 111 are market rate and 62 are affordable,
and 10 are targeted for sale to CHA families. The rental units will be developed by The
Community Builders, Inc., and Granite Development Corporation. Of the 325 rental units, 126
are public housing, 104 are affordable, and 95 are market rate. The rental units will be
developed in two sub-phases, Phase 1A (163 units) and Phase 1B (162 units). The project
partnership will enter into a 99-year ground lease with CHA for the Phase 1A and Phase 1B
Rental Development Site. The name of the project partne rship for Phase 1A is Madden Wells
Phase 1A Associates Limited Partnership. The name of the project partnership for Phase 1B
shall be the yet-to-be formed Madden Wells Phase 1B Associates Limited Partnership. The
Mixed Finance Proposal sets forth the financing structure for Phase 1A Rental, to which the
CHA, the Habitat Company, the City of Chicago and other investors have agreed in principle.
The financing plan for Phase IA of this development totals approximately $34 million. CHA
will loan up to $6,000,000 in HOPE VI and/or MROP funds from the $12 million originally
approved for Phase 1 by Board Resolution on August 20, 2002; Tax Credit Equity will provide
approximately $13.4 million; a lender will provide an amount of approximately $3.5 million in
a first mortgage FHA guaranteed loan and an additional $1.4 million in an FHA guaranteed loan
which will be repaid by TIF revenues; the City of Chicago Department of Housing HOME
funds will provide up to $10 million; FHLB will provide $500,000. A pro-rata share of all
sources will be disbursed during construction. In addition, the CHA will provide an operating
subsidy of $340 per unit. This amount will increase at the CPI or 2% annually, whichever is
less, beginning in 2003 for the term of the Regulatory and Operating Agreement with the CHA.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-8
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December 20,
2002, requesting authorization to submit applications to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for 1) Disposition of

5

 land formerly known as Clarence Darrow Homes, Madden Park Homes, Ida B.
Wells Homes, and Wells Extension (the Madden/Wells site); 2) submit a Mixed
Finance Proposal to HUD for the Madden/Wells Phase 1A project; and 3) execute
such other documents as may be required to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to:
1) submit a Disposition Application to the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development (“HUD”) for CHA land known as the Madden/Wells
Site; requesting specific authorization for the disposition by negotiation and
execution, on a phase-by-phase basis, long term land lease(s) for Madden Wells
Phase 1A, Phase 1B and Phase 1 Sale; 2) submit a Mixed Finance Proposal to
HUD for the Madden/Wells Pha se 1A Rental finance structure; and 3) execute
such other documents as may be required to implement the foregoing.

(Item A3)
Oakwood Boulevard Associates was the team selected for the redevelopment of Madden/Wells
Phase I site into a mixed- income community. On December 18, 2001, a Board Resolution was
issued authorizing a Letter of Intent to negotiate and execute a long term land lease and to
demonstrate site control by Oakwood for purposes of applying for low-income housing tax
credits. Since the December 18, 2001 Board Resolution, Madden Wells Phase 1A Associates,
LLC (“LLC”), formed by The Community Builders, Inc. (70% partner) and Granite
Development Corporation (30% partner), applied for and received an allocation of $1.1 million
in low income housing tax credits from the Illinois Housing Development Authority. The
resolution for Item A3 approves extension of a Letter of Intent which memorializes the CHA’s
commitment to negotiate and execute a long term land lease for the Madden/Wells Phase 1A
Site, thereby permitting Madden Wells Phase IA Limited partnership to continue to maintain
site control for one additional year.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-9
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 20,
2002, requesting authorization of the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
extend a Letter of Intent to negotiate and execute a long term land lease for the
development of Madden/Wells Phase IA site in favor of Madden Wells Phase 1A
Limited Partnership, of which the managing general partner is Madden Wells
Phase 1A Associates LLC, and concurs with the recommendation contained
therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissio ners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend a Letter of Intent to negotiate and execute a long term land
lease for the Madden/Wells Phase 1A Site for an additional one- year term to
Madden Wells Phase 1A Limited Partnership, of which the managing general
partner is the Madden Wells Phase 1A Associates LLC, and thereby maintain site
control over the Madden/Wells Phase 1A Site. The Letter of Intent shall be valid
through August 31, 2003, with one (1) remaining one- year option, subject to
annual Board of Commissio ners’ approval beginning on August 31, 2003.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves execution and issuance of a Letter of Intent and Related
Actions for the development of the Madden Park/Ida B. Wells/Darrow Homes Phase 1B to
Oakwood Boulevard Associates. The purpose of the Letter of Intent is to memorialize the
Chicago Housing Authority’s commitment to negotiate and execute a long term land lease; to
demonstrate site control and thereby permit the development team of Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, Inc. to apply for low-income housing tax credits to finance the development of this
site. The Madden/Wells Phase 1B site is roughly bounded by a half block west of South

6

 Langley Ave. on the west, East 38th Street on the north, South Cottage Grove Ave. on the east,
and East Pershing Road (39th Street) on the south. The Letter of Intent will contain a provision
that allows the CHA to terminate its commitment at any time so that if negotiations with the
Oakwood Boulevard Associates development team are not successful, or if a tax credit
application has not been submitted by April 21, 2003, the Letter of Intent will have no impact
on other redevelopment activities contemplated on this site. The Letter of Intent will also be
subject to the execution of the Development Agreement and a Ground Lease satisfactory to both
parties.
Commissioner Young recused from voting on Item A4.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-10
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 20,
2002, requesting authorization of the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute and issue a Letter of Intent to negotiate and execute a long term land lease
for the development of Madden/Wells/Darrow Phase IB site in favor of yet-to-be
formed Madden Wells Phase 1B Limited Partnership, of which the managing
general partner will be the yet-to-be formed Madden Wells Phase 1B Associates
LLC, an affiliate of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, Inc., and concurs with the
recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute and issue a Letter of Intent to negotiate and execute a long
term land lease for the development of Madden/Wells/Darrow Phase 1B site in
favor of the yet-to-be formed Madden Wells Phase 1B Limited Partnership, of
which the managing general partner will be the yet-to-be formed Madden Wells
Phase 1B Associates LLC, an affiliate of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, Inc., in
exchange for $1. The Letter of Intent shall be valid through August 31, 2003, with
two (2) one-year options, subject to annual Board of Commissioners’ approval
beginning on August 31, 2003.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to take all actions necessary to support the tax credit application of the
Oakwood Boulevard Associates, Inc. on the Madden/Wells/Darrow Phase 1B site
in accordance with the Phase I plan approved by the Madden/Wells Working
Group.

(Item A5)
Centrum Properties, Inc. is converting the former Montgomery Ward catalogue building into a
mixed-use development that includes 298 condominium units of which 16 one-bedroom units
are being offered as replacement housing for Cabrini Extension North families. The purchase
of these units will help satisfy the Cabrini Consent Decree that requires the replacement of 700
public housing units for Cabrini Extension North families. Because the $216,900 per unit cost
far exceeds the CHA’s allowable total development cost (TDC) threshold of $105,045,
CMHDC has agreed to purchase the units in order to receive assistance from the City of
Chicago Department of Housing through its state Affordable Housing Tax Credit Program.
The City will issue the tax credits to CMHDC and CMHDC will assign the tax credits to
Centrum Properties in exchange for a per unit discount of approximately $23,126 which will
reduce the per unit cost to $193,774. The remaining per unit acquisition gap of $100,112 will
be donated by Centrum Properties, Inc. as a public benefit. The CHA will make a loan to
CMHDC in the amount of $1,498,606 with a 20 year term. At the end of the 20 year term,
CMHDC will transfer the units to CHA in exchange for an amount equal to 15% of the effective
TDC limitation at the time of the transfer. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 authorizes a
Loan Agreement with CMHDC for the purchase of 16 one-bedroom units in the Domain Lofts
Development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-11

7

 WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has received the Board Letter dated December 20,
2002, entitled “Request for Authorization to enter into a Loan Agreement with
Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation (“CMHDC”) for the
purchase of the 16 One-Bedroom Units within the Domain Lofts Development”
and concurs in the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a loan agreement with Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation (“CMHDC”) in an amount of $1,498,606, subject to
any necessary HUD approvals, for the purchase of the 16 one-bedroom units
within the Domain Lofts Development as replacement housing for Cabrini
Extension North. CHA will be utilizing $1,680,720 of Cabrini 1994 HOPE VI
Grant funds, of which $1,498,606 shall be made as a loan to CMHDC, and
$182,114 will be used to pay Receiver Fees/Administrative costs and other
development related costs. The term of the CHA loan to CMHDC shall be for 20
years. Subject to HUD approval of this transaction, at the end of the 20 year term,
the CHA loan amount of $1,498,606 will be utilized as consideration for the CHA
acquisition of the units from CMHDC. CMHDC shall transfer the 16 units to
CHA in exchange for an amount equal to 15% of the effective Total Development
Cost (TDC) at the time of such transfer in year 2023.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 amends the Intergovernmental Agreement for La nd Acquisition
between the CHA and the City of Chicago approved by the CHA Board of Commissioners in
July 2002. The amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement would relieve the City, at this
time, from an obligation to reimburse the CHA for funds expended for land acquisition cost as
part of the CHA Plan for Transformation. The new Agreement would allow the CHA to use the
City’s existing land acquisition process, staff and eminent domain authority. This Agreement
would also allow the City to use funds available to CHA to acquire properties that will be
mutually agreed upon by all parties as being necessary for the development of mixed- income
communities.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-12
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 15, 2003
entitled “Authorization To Amend the Intergovernmental Agreement For Land
Acquisition Between The Chicago Housing Authority, The Habitat Company and
The City Of Chicago” and concurs with the recommendations contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend the Intergovernmental Agreement for Land Acquisition with
the City of Chicago, and the Habitat Company relieving the City, at this time,
from its commitment to reimburse the CHA in an amount not to exceed
$15,000,000 for land acquisition cost under the CHA Plan for Transformation and
to authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute all other
documents as may be necessary to implement this amendment to the Agreement.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Davis and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young (Recused from voting on Items A2, 3, & 4)

8

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The joint Operations and Finance Committee report was also
accepted in total.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, January 15 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item B1)
In 2002, the CHA started a show for cable T.V. in order to reach a wide base of CHA residents
and the Chicago Area public to provide a better understanding of the different elements of the
Plan for Transformation. Due to the very effective response the show received during its first
season, the CHA proposes to continue with the Cable Show “A Better Place”. This show will
continue to inform residents and the general public of the work being done under the Plan for
Transformation as well as the programs and services available to residents. The show, in
addition to being a primary communications tool, is also serving as a conduit of information and
inspiration to current residents. In November 2002, a Request for Proposal was advertised in
area newspapers for the development and production of a Cable Television Show and the RFP
was mailed to ten (10) prospective respondents, including six (6) MBE/WBE’s. Of the four
responses received, all were deemed responsive. The resolution for item B1 approves award of
contract to Fries Frame Productions, based upon the evaluation committees’ recommendation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated December 20, 2002, entitled “Authorization to enter into a
contract with Fries Frame Productions for the development and production of a
CHA Cable Show.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or
his designee, to enter into a contract with Fries Frame Productions, for the
development and production of a CHA cable show in firm fixed price amount of
$500,000 for 16 to 20 episodes, for one (1) year, beginning January 1, 2003
through December 31, 2003, with one (1) additional year option, subject to
HUD and Board approval.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves a Funding Agreement for Fiscal Year 2003 with the Central
Advisory Council (CAC). A Funding Agreement between the CHA and the CAC is required by
HUD Regulations 24 CFR 964.150 for funding provided by a housing authority for a duly
elected resident council. This agreement places financial responsibility on the CAC to govern,
control and document use of CHA provided funds approved in the CAC’s 2003 operating budget
in the amount of $1,423,687.00 for the period beginning January 1, 2003, and ending December
31, 2003.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-14
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated
December 26, 2002, entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a
Funding Agreement for Fiscal Year 2003 with the Central Advisory
Council;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

9

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central
Advisory Council for the 2003 fiscal year in an amount not-to-exceed One
Million Four Hundred Twenty Three Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Seven
and No/Dollars ($1,423,687.00) for the period beginning January 1, 2003
and ending December 31, 2003.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves a Funding Agreement with the Senior Housing Advisory
Council (SHAC) for Fiscal Year 2003. A Funding Agreement between the CHA and SHAC is
required by HUD Regulation, 24 CFR 964.150, for funding provided by a housing authority for
a duly elected resident council. The Agreement will place independent financial responsibility
on the SHAC to govern, control and document CHA funds provided for the 2003 operating
budget in an amount not to exceed $300,000 for the period of January 1, 2003 through
December 31, 2003. SHAC is managed by the three duly elected presidents of the Senior
Housing Local Advisory Councils and maintains offices at 6401 S. Yale, 3030 West 21st Place
and 1845 N. Larrabee. The purpose of SHAC is to act for and on behalf of the residents who
live in CHA senior buildings. The Agreement will contain provisions to ensure compliance with
all state, local and federal laws, rules and regulations and require SHAC to account for use of
the funds under the Agreement. The Agreement will also permit the CHA to review and audit
the Books and Records of the SHAC.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-15
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated December
26, 2002, entitled “Authorization to Negotiate and Enter into a Funding
Agreement with the Senior Housing Advisory Council”;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to negotiate and enter into a Funding Agreement with the Senior
Housing Advisory Council for the period commencing January 1, 2003 and
ending December 31, 2003, in an amount not to exceed Three Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($300,000).

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B3 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
At this time, the Chairperson presented a Motion to reconsider the voting for items presented by
the Joint Operations and Finance Committee (A1 through A6) due to a correction with regards
to the items recused by Commissioner Young. Commissioner Healey seconded the Motion and
Commissioner Young corrected her recusals to reflect Items A2, A3 and A4 as opposed to Item
A3, A4 and A5.

10

 There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 