June 13, 2012

ITEM NO. A1

RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO TWO-YEAR CONTRACTS WITH
NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING SERVICES, SPANISH COALITION FOR HOUSING,
RESURRECTION PROJECT AND THE LAW PROJECT TO PROVIDE PRE-
PURCHASE AND POST-PURCHASE HOMEOWNERSHIP COUNSELING AND
LEGAL SERVICES FOR PARTICIPANTS OF THE CHOOSE TO OWN
HOMEOWNERSHIP PROGRAM

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATION

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer or his designee to execute contracts with Neighborhood Housing Services 
Spanish Coalition for Housing Resurrection Project, and The Chicago Lawyers?
Committee for Civil Rights (?The Law Project?), in an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$243,450 for a two (2) year base term with two (2) additional one-year option periods to provide
pre-purchase and post-purchase counseling and legal services for participants of Choose
to Own Homeownership Program.

FUNDING SUMMARY
General Fund
Vendors:
Neighborhood Housing Services Spanish Coalition for Housing

1279 North Milwaukee Suite 500
Chicago, Illinois 60622
Base Term Contract Amount: $84,250

Resurrection Project

1818 South Paulina Street

Chicago, Illinois 60608

Base Term Contract Amount: $41,000

Speci?cation No.: 11-00863

Contract Type: Fee for Service
Contract Period: Two (2) Years
Aggregate Contract Amount: $243,450

Option Period: Two (2) One-Year Options

1922 North Pulaski Road
Chicago, Illinois 60639
Base Term Contract Amount: $58,200

The Law Project

100 North LaSalle - Suite 600
Chicago, Illinois 60602

Base Term Contract Amount: $60,000

Dates Advertised: 12/27, 28, 30, 2011
Pre-Proposal Conference: 1/9/2011

Date Proposals Due: 2/3/2012
Advertisement: Chicago Sun Times,
Chicago Defender, and Extra

Number of Pick-Ups: 32

Number of Proposals Received: 7
Number of Vendors Solicited: 79

MBE: 2 WBB: 3 DBE: 2

Noti?cation to Assist Agencies: 64

Neighborhood Housing Services: Waiver Approved

 

Section 3: Hiring Subcontracting 1.5% (5) Other Economic Opportunities
Spanish Coalition for Housing: Waiver Approved
Section 3: 1 Hiring (S) Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities
Resurrection Proiect:

20% MBE 
Section 3: Hiring (5) Subcontracting 1.5% (5) Other Economic Opportunities
The Law Project: Waiver Approved
Section 3: 1 Hiring (S) Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

EXPLANATION

The purpose of Request for Proposal No. 11-00863 (the was to solicit vendors to
continue providing Choose to Own Homeownership Counseling Services or the
?Program?). For the past 10 years, CTO has provided Housing Choice Voucher 
tenants the option to own a home within the city of Chicago by utilizing the voucher subsidy to
help families pay a portion of their mortgage. In 2011, CHA expanded the CTO program to also
include public housing families. CTO is aligned with corporate strategies of helping
families maximize their potential and move toward economic independence.

Choose to Own Prom History
The CTO program has provided opportunities for CHA families to own a home within the city of

Chicago since 2002. CHA uses the voucher subsidy to help CTO participants pay a portion of
their mortgage for up to 15 years (up to 30 years for elderly residents or people with
disabilities). Homeownership programs, like CTO, have been implemented by housing
authorities throughout the country with the support of HUD. program continues to be
successful due to the broad network of partnerships that support residents before and after
purchasing a home.

Since 2002, the CTO program has helped more than 360 families purchase homes, 42 of which
are now paying 100% of their mortgage and no longer receiving any subsidy toward their house
payment. Since expanding the Program to public housing families in 2011. the ?rst two families
are close to ?nalizing their home purchase and several more are working through the homebuyer
process.

From 2002 through 2010, the Program was administered through subcontracts administered by
Quadel, former HCV contract administrator. In 2011, CHA took over direct
administration of CTO by contracting directly with HUD certi?ed homeownership counseling
agencies. In December 2011 CHA released an RFP to competitively procure new contracts to
continue the Program.

 1,9 Homeownership Counseling ng?ces

CTO includes pie-purchase counseling to help families navigate the home buying process,
coordination of legal services, and post-purchase counseling services as needed. Pre- and post-
purchase homeownership counseling is provided by HUD certi?ed homeownership counseling
agencies and is required for participants to complete the CTO program. Participants may
purchase a single-family home, townhouse, condominium, or cooperative anywhere in Chicago.

HCV and public housing families interested in homeownership must ?rst attend an orientation
conducted by CHA staff, apply to the CTO and pass a ?nancial review that includes a credit
check and established savings. Program participants will then be referred to one of the
recommended agencies for pre-purchase counseling. Pre-purchase counseling includes an initial
assessment to review credit, budget and individual planning. Participants will engage in a
minimum of eight (8) hours of classroom training prior to being eligible to purchase a home.
Pre-purchase courses include, but are not limited to, ?nancial literacy, responsibilities of
homeownership, selecting a home, selecting a loan, purchase prices and the closing process.
Throughout the purchase process, CTO participants will receive legal support that may include,
but not be limited to review and negotiation of the sales contract, representation at the closing,
and estate planning.

In the ?rst year after closing on the new home, participants will engage in post-purchase
counseling on a quarterly basis. Activities may include, but are not limited to, assessment of
expenses, review of the household savings plan, seasonal maintenance, and foreclosure
prevention.

anmtg Background
The Contractors selected to operate the Program will be responsible for providing pre- and post-

homeownership counseling, legal services and additional support throughout the home buying
process. The four (4) selected vendors have a unique combination of experience to provide these
services and are all HUD certi?ed agencies. Following a competitive procurement process,
CHA is recommending:

0 NHS will provide pre- and post-homeownership counseling services. NHS has provided
homeownership counseling services to CHA families since the inception of the Program
in 2002. CHA has been satis?ed with performance.

0 SCH will provide pre- and post-homeownership counseling services to CTO participants.
SCH has provided homeownership counseling services to CHA families since the
inception of the Program in 2002. CHA has been satis?ed with performance.

0 The Resurrection Project will provide pre-homeownership counseling services. Since
1990, the Resurrection Project, as a HUD certi?ed agency, has provided homeownership
counseling services to low- and very-low income residents throughout the Chicagoland
area, however this is their ?rst time providing services through CTO Program.

0 The Law Project will provide legal assistance to program participants. Since 2002, the
Law Project has provided legal assistance to CTO participants. CHA has been satis?ed
with The Law Project?s performance.

Procurement History
The CHA advertised the RFP on December 27, 2011 to solicit vendors to provide pre and post

homeownership counseling and legal services. The RFP was advertised in the Chicago Sun
Times, Extra, and the Chicago Defender. Additionally, 64 Assist Agencies received noti?cation
of the solicitation, and copies were made available at the CHA of?ces at 60 East Van Buren, 13th
Floor. The CHA also directly solicited 79 ?rms, and posted the solicitation announcement on
the CHA website and in BuySpeed. A Pre?Proposal Conference was held on January 9, 2012
with representatives from nine (9) ?rms in attendance. On February 3, 2012, the CHA received
seven (7) proposals. An Evaluation Committee consisting of three (3) members evaluated all
proposals.

After the Evaluation Committee completed its analysis of the proposals, a competitive range was
set and approved by the Contracting Of?cer. Five (5) ?rms were found to be within the
competitive range. The decision to forego oral presentations, due to the small size of the
procurement and the information provided and detailed in the original proposals, was approved,
and best and ?nal offers were requested and submitted by each of the ?ve ?rms. Based upon the
evaluations of the written proposals and best and ?nal offers, it was determined that four (4) of
the ?ve (5) ?rms, Neighborhood Housing Services of Chicago, Spanish Coalition for Housing,
The Resurrection Project and The Law Project will provide the best overall service and value to
the CHA. The recommended contract awards are based on the anticipated number of referrals
each agency will receive for their proposed services and the fees each agency proposed in their
Best and Final Offers.

Conclusion

Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer, or his designee, to enter into fee-for-service contracts for two (2) year base terms, with
two (2) one-year options with (1) Neighborhood Housing Services in an amount not-to-exceed
$84,250 for the base term; (2) Spanish Coalition for Housing in an amount not-to-exceed
$58,200 for the base term; (3) Resurrection Project in an amount not-to-exceed $41,000 for the
base term and (4) The Law Project in an amount not-to-exceed $60,000 for the base term for an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed $243,450 to provide pie-purchase and post-purchase counseling
and legal services for participants of Choose to Own Homeownership Counseling

Program.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-44

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the

Board Letter dated June 13, 2012, entitled TO ENTER
INTO TWO-YEAR CONTRACTS WITH NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING
SERVICES, SPANISH COALITION FOR HOUSING, RESURRECTION
PROJECT AND THE LAW PROJECT TO PROVIDE AND
POST-PURCHASE COUNSELING AND LEGAL SERVICES FOR
PARTICIPANTS OF THE CHOOSE TO OWN 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into fee-for-service contracts for a two (2) year base term, with
two (2) one-year options with (1) Neighborhood Housing Services in an amount
not-to-exceed $84,250 for the base term; (2) Spanish Coalition for Housing in an
amount not-to-exceed $58,200 for the base term; (3) Resurrection Project in an
amount not-to-exceed $41,000 for the base term and (4) The Law Project in an
amount not-to-exceed $60,000 for the base term, for an aggregate amount not-to-
exceed $243,450 to provide pre-purchase and post-purchase counseling and legal
services for participants of Choose to Own Homeownership Counseling

Program.

mum? 

Jun 

Board of Con- ?sion?n

     

 
    

