REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CHA Corporate Offices
60 East Van Buren 12th Floor Loft, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, May 19, 2015
8:30 a.m.

AGENDA
I.

Roll Call

II.

Closed Meeting

Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1); purchase, sale and lease of real estate property
under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c)(11); review of
closed meeting minutes under (c)(21) and audit reviews under (c)(29).

III.

Open Session - Roll Call

IV.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

V.

Approval of closed and open meeting minutes for April 21, 2015.

VI.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Tenant Services Committee Report – Mildred Harris, Chairwoman
1. Recommendation to accept a Grant Award in the amount of $1,158,300 and execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Department of Family and Support
Services, and increase the Resident Services budget in order to amend contracts with
CHA’s current FamilyWorks providers in an additional aggregate amount not-to-exceed
$300,000 to implement and administer the Summer Youth Employment Program – Ellen
Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Mary Howard, Deputy Chief Housing Officer, Resident Services
2.

Recommendation to exercise the first one-year option with TEC Services Consulting, Inc.
to provide oversight, maintenance and program coordination at CHA Computer Labs in an
amount not-to-exceed $1,350,000 – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Mary Howard,
Deputy Chief Housing Officer, Resident Services

3.

Ratification of acceptance of a Grant Award from HUD in the amount of $3,000,000 for
the Jobs Plus Pilot Program; increase the FY2015 Comprehensive Budget and enter into
sub-contract agreements with Chicago Workforce Partnership, not-to-exceed $773,000
and Metropolitan Family Services, not-to-exceed $800,000 – Mary Howard, Deputy Chief
Housing Officer, Resident Services; Margaret Jones, Director, Grant Administration

 Operations and Facilities Committee Report – Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman
4.
Authorization to exercise a two-year extension option with Constellation Energy
Services, Inc. for the supply and delivery of electricity to various CHA residential sites
and facilities in an amount not-to-exceed $6,632,320 – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing
Officer; Tim Veenstra, Deputy Chief Housing Officer
5.

Authorization to proceed with the application process for additional properties under
Phase 1 of the Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Program for approximately 13
properties as necessary or required – Ellen Sahli, Chief Housing Officer; Tim Veenstra,
Deputy Chief Housing Officer

Real Estate Development Report – Jack Markowski, Chairman
6.
Authorization to enter into a contract with Solomon Cordwell Buenz for a firm fixed price
in the amount of $328,626 to provide Master Planning Technical Services for the CHA
Redevelopment Area contiguous to Oakwood Shores – Eugene Jones, Chief Property
Officer; Maya Hodari, Development Manager
7.

Authorization to execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for 7245 N. Rogers Avenue –
Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Jolene Saul, Director, PRA & Acquisitions

8.

Authorization to execute a Housing Assistance Payments Contract for 3714 W.
Wrightwood – Eugene Jones, Chief Property Officer; Jolene Saul, Director, PRA &
Acquisitions

9.

Authorization to execute an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments
Contract for Jeffery Towers, 7020 S. Jeffery Boulevard – Eugene Jones, Chief Property
Officer; Jolene Saul, Director, PRA & Acquisitions

Finance & Personnel Committee Report – Mark Cozzi, Chairman
10. Personnel Actions – José R. Alvarez, Chief Administrative Officer
VII.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Michael Merchant

VIII.

Public Participation

IX.

Adjournment

2

 