Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of October 16, 2007
Wentworth Gardens Fieldhouse, 3770 S. Wentworth Avenue, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/
1.

State Rep Ken Dunkin

2.

Beatrice Harris

3.

Rev. Freddie Batchelor

4.

Tzinyona Frazier

5.

Juanita Johnson

6.

Georgia Curtis

Question/Comment
What should CHA, elected official and residents
do to close financial, capital and social service
gaps?
Welcome Commissioners to Wentworth Gardens.
Is supportive of Plan For Transformation, however
change has to come not only from the federal
government in terms of financing but also change
has to come from corrupt developers and
management companies. A new standard has to
be put forth starting with ministers, politicians and
the community at large.
Why aren’t there enough jobs for residents? Jobs
are given only to latinos and not to Altgeld
residents.

Holds a license in painting and is unable to get a
job from the Altgeld redevelopment project.
Requesting a split lease for daughter who is 20
years and has 2 children. Has filed complaint with
management and Commissioner Young and no
response to date.
Ceded time to Cheryl Johnson.

Status
The CHA is in contact with State Representative Ken Dunkin
and actively exploring these areas.
Comments Noted
Comments Noted

The CHA is working to help Ms. Frazier access the Section 3
program. In addition, she is working with Service Connector.
She will interview with the Post Office for temp. employment for
the Holiday. The CHA is working to assist Ms. Frazier with her
employment barriers.
Property Management asserts that Ms. Johnson has been hired
as a Section 3 worker at least two (2) times. Leaseholder never
requested a Split Family Transfer for her daughter. Daughter
was signed out of the house by L/H 4/11/06. L/H completed an
Out of Household Statement

 7.

Cheryl Johnson

In June 2007 presented documents to
Commissioners requesting removal of East Lake
as property managers. Requesting letter of
response from Commissioners.
Representing Gloria Campbell, senior citizen,
13054 S. Evans, who lost her microwave, dishes,
clothes and other personal belongings during
relocation. Requesting hand rail for tub.

8.

Isaac Jackson
13125 S. Corliss

Is qualified to train HQS teams and to date is
unable to get Section 3 job.
When is the LAC election? Has not received
petition in rent statement. When will petition be
sent out?

The Board of Commissioners is in receipt of your letter. The
Agency prescribes to a policy of ongoing monitoring and
enforcement of the Private Property Management contracts.
The Asset Management department of the CHA regularly
monitors the performance of all Private Management
Companies to assess their performance. Based on the
compliance requirements, East Lake’s management practices
are in compliance with their contract. As a result, East Lake will
continue in their role as property managers for several CHA
properties.
Property Management asserts that Ms. Campbells’ dishes,
clothes and other personal belongings were delivered safely to
her new unit during the move. With regards to the microwave,
after review of the appliance it was determined that it was
unsanitary and would be detrimental to the purpose of the move
to bring the microwave in its current condition.
About the tub, Property Management will raise this issue with
the contractor but are unable to install hand rails at this time due
to the fact that it would void the current warranty for the tub
surround.
The CHA’s policy requires that Section 3 job opportunities be
offered first to any qualified residents who live in developments
where the work is being performed. Section 3 workers are hired
from referrals from the Section 3 database, which is available
through the CHA Department of Human Resources.
An LAC election is planned for 2008, but a date has not been
determined yet.

 9.

Vivian Mudo

When will residents receive petition for LAC
Election?
Why can’t she purchase cable since she pays
over $1000 for rent?
Why do children who live with her have to park 3
blocks from apartment due to parking sticker
requirement?
Why does she have to pay $7 for light bulbs to be
placed in her unit?

The LAC election is planned to be held in 2008. CHA staff, HUD
and others are still in the process of determining the direction
and feasibility of the LAC presidents’ role moving forward.
The CHA’s Procurement and Contracts Department currently
has a RFP out for Cable television services in Altgeld Gardens.
Parking information was posted for 45 days and hand delivered
to each occupied unit in May 2006. The following information is
needed to receive a parking sticker. Once all information is
reviewed they will receive a sticker;
1. Must be on the lease
2. Valid Driver’s License
3. Valid vehicle registration
4. Current City and State stickers
5 Proof of current automobile insurance coverage

10.

Barbara Simmons

Is requesting washing machines and dryers for
disabled senior citizens in Altgeld Gardens.

11.

Tom Bennett.

12.

Francine Washington

On Monday, July 16, the Stabauch company told
Tomas Bennett Ltd that the lower winning bid had
0 day due diligence period and a 30 day close.
To date, 90 days, why isn’t it closed? Did CHA
take $1million less?
Millions of dollars are being spent to transform
Wentworth, Ickes and Altgeld, what will CHA do to
maintain them?

13.

Linda Porter

Her door was kicked; bricks and bottles thrown at
her window by vandals who congregate in nearby
playground. Management is saying that she has
to pay for damages. Can playground be fenced to
avoid further damages.
Altgeld needs cable in order for children to have
access to educational programs which will also
help in keeping them inside.

The light bulb is a fluorescent tube and is sold to residents at
vendor’s cost.
According to the dwelling lease approved by the Board of
Commissioners (Sept. 2005), Washing machines and dryers are
prohibited in dwelling units.
The building is under contract and is scheduled to close before
year end.

With regards to Altgeld, the East Lake Management team
assigned to Altgeld has implemented brochures detailing the
rules and regulations of Altgeld-Murray homes. The brochure
was hand delivered and leaseholder signed date of receipt. The
management team enforces strict compliance.
Property Management asserts that Ms. Porter was not charged
for the repair of the door. In addition, a purchase order has been
issued to vendor to install chain link fence around playground.
The CHA’s Procurement and Contracts Department currently
has a RFP out for Cable television services in Altgeld Gardens

 