Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
January 17, 2012
Fosco Park Fieldhouse – 1312 S. Racine
Name

Question/Comment

Response

Loretta Kidd

I am a landlord and we have an unfavorable tenant on
the 2nd floor. We tried calling Section 8 and sent
them a letter and it has still been going on since
September. We need some help.

HCV has worked with the commenter to successfully resolve
this issue.

Dennis Hood

This is my home. I was also a resident at Lathrop. I
would like to say, I need contracts.

Alisa Barnes

I have been a resident for 22 years and the
neighborhood has come a long way. The services
with Heartland are excellent and they have helped me
get a job. My case manager has been great.
I work at Rush Hospital and I grew up in ABLA. This
neighborhood is great and I would like to thank you
all. My issue is, for Roosevelt Square, the
management is disrespectful sometimes. In
Roosevelt Square, there are unprofessional
employees working at the front desk and I would like
Roosevelt Square to have more consideration for their
tenants.
I am a resident at ALBA and I want to say thanks to
Commissioner Beverly. I also want to say thanks for
the Safe Passage program.
I grew up in ALBA and I work with some of the
students with the CHA program in collaboration with
CPS. I asked the Board of Education if I could come
work in the area and this program is the only program
in CPS, that allows kids to come back and receive
their high school diploma and get their GED.

Vendors can register with CHA in BuySpeed and indicate if they
are a small business or Section 3 business (which includes
ROB). BuySpeed allows potential vendors to view open
solicitations and download CHA bid opportunities. To stay
updated with CHA’s contract opportunities, please visit the
following link:
http://www.thecha.org/pages/open_solicitations/110.php.
Thank you for your comment and we're happy to hear your
FamilyWorks provider has been beneficial.

1

2

3
Clarice Williams

4

Emma Arnold
5
Robert Smith
6

1

CHA believes that customer service is the key to successful
management and resident relations. Related Management is
the property manager for Roosevelt Square and has committed
to review their policies and provide additional customer service
training for their staff to ensure a consistently professional and
respectful environment for all residents.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment and for the work that you're doing.

 Ida Brantley
7
Francine Washington

8

Paul McKinley

9

I having been living in ABLA since the age of four.
Commissioner Beverly is a hard-worker and is always
there for the residents. She has a Christmas party for
people in need.
Ms. Beverly says the new CEO listens. On 57th
street, Norfolk railroads is taking over. Residents
need to relocate. I am asking CHA to speak with our
residents and provide them with incentives if they
have to move. They should be given compensation
since the railroad company is doing it for the
homeowners.
The letter is concerning Section 3. You must adhere
to all federal guidelines. What is happening with
Section 3, CHA has made no intentions to adhere to
guidelines. The Board voted on contracts that made
no gains with putting CHA residents on these jobs. I
can't make accusations, but I am here to inform you
that in Chicago, we make sure you put our people to
work.

Thank you for your comment.

CHA is still in negotiations with Norfolk Southern. No decisions
on incentives have been made.

If a selected contractor is unable to meet the Section 3 hiring or
contracting requirements, it must thoroughly document its
inability to comply and must instead donate to CHA’s Section 3
Fund, which provides other opportunities for CHA residents.
Furthermore, CHA residents are no longer required to register
for Section 3, instead, they should work with their FamilyWorks
provider to complete a workforce survey and apply for
opportunities as they become available.
To learn more about CHA’s Section 3 program, please visit this
link:
http://www.thecha.org/filebin/8_29_11_Section_3_BOC_August
2011.pdf

2

 Betty Thompson

I am a resident at Lake Parc Place. There are four
projects there and not one has started. One is for
security doors, then the computer lab, the
maintenance for the lighting rooms and the lobby
area. They are trying to do renovation, but the
buildings are awful looking. When are the projects
going to start and when will Section 3 participants be
looked at for jobs at this site?

Ms. Gaines

I want to talk about leadership. Commissioner
Beverly is loyal and if she can help you, she will. We
all love you commissioner.
I would like to concur with Ms. Gaines, Ms. Beverly is
special. I work for an alcohol and substance abuse
organization and we have an abundance of resources.
CPD is doing the best job they can but I want to
remind people that they can't do it by themselves.
That's where we help, we do assessments and
workshops.
I was raised in ABLA, my mom is about to be 90 and
we have been here since 1956. Ms. Beverly was a
friend and neighbor and she is a blessing. I also
really like my case manager.
I have been a resident at ABLA for a long time. Ms.
Beverly has been an inspiring woman for me.

10

11
Mike Watson

12

Denise Bolden
13
Bettye Hubbard
14

3

i) At the January Board meeting Sanjiv Jain provided Ms.
Thompson with the potential scope of work that will take place at
Lake Parc Place, with a follow-up for confirming timelines, etc.
ii) Sanjiv followed up with several telephone updates on the
status of the 3 (not 4) projects ongoing and planned for at Lake
Parc (a. Life Safety - ongoing; b. Computer Lab – planned; c.
ADA Retrofit - planned).
iii) Capital Construction staff visited Lake Parc on 1/30/12 and
met with the PPM and residents to provide an update of the
projects outlined in item 2 above.
iv) The current status is as follows: The Life Safety
Improvements to include the View light panels in the doors were
completed on 1/27/12 for both buildings. The computer lab at
the 3983 building is scheduled to begin by March 2012 with
completion by June 2012. The ADA conversion of 56 dwelling
units is scheduled for April Board approval with construction to
begin May 2012 and completed by May 2013.
v) Concerning the Life Safety project, this project was for
multiple developments and therefore Section 3 hires may have
been chosen from other locations. For the computer lab project,
they will hire one construction clerk and one laborer, although
this contract has not yet been fully executed. For the ADA
Retrofit (Envelope improvements, with mechanical & plumbing
upgrades at Lake Parc Place Apartments) this contract has not
been awarded and therefore no Section 3 hiring plan has been
established.
Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment and for the work that you're doing.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

 