MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 21, 2009
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
April 21, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. at the Wicker Park Apartments, 1414 North Damen, Chicago,
Illinois.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, Kris Warren, Chief Operating Officer;
Scott Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General
Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session.
The Chairman announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board
would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent
litigation, personnel related matters, collective negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of
real estate property; establishment of reserves and settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
Mr. Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly activity report. Per Mr.
Jordan this has been an exciting and productive month in that CHA received $144 million from
the Federal package stimulus boost that will be used to aid in the rehab and upgrade of older
properties and to enhance safety and security with the installation of cameras and other
equipment. Mr. Jordan then announced that similar to last year ComEd and Peoples’ Gas agreed
to participate in the “All Clear” program to assist CHA leaseholders clear their past due utility
accounts. Over the past two years the program has helped almost 4,000 residents become current
in their utility bills. Mr. Jordan then announced that Coleman Place, a mixed-income community
replacement housing for Robert Taylor, is completely leased up, on time and on schedule.
According to Mr. Jordan, to date, 99 new mixed income units have been completed and a total of
114 families have moved into new mixed income units this year. Per Mr. Jordan, these numbers
are expected to increase due to special programs funded by CHA, the Partnership for New
Communities and the federal government whereby incentives are made available to first time
homebuyers who purchase a home in one of the Plan For Transformation communities. Mr.
Jordan concluded his report by announcing the Senior Housing Campaign kick-off to make
seniors aware of the excellent housing available to them citywide.
Chairman Nesbitt then announced that Commissioner Mendenhall submitted his resignation
today due to his obligations associated with his professional and civic responsibilities. Chairman
Nesbitt acknowledged Commissioner Mendenhall’s contribution to the CHA and the Plan For

1

 Transformation and commended him for his hard work during his tenure. Commissioner
Mendenhall thanked the Chairman, Commissioners and CHA residents for their leadership and
support and pledged his continued support to CHA and CHA residents. Commissioner
Mendenhall then left the meeting in session.
Chairman Nesbitt then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, the Chairman introduced the
Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of resolutions for
Executive Session Item 1 and 2.
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 3, 2009, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for March 2009.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
March 2009.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-47
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 21, 2009,
requesting authorization to 1) enter into negotiations to execute a land transfer
agreement and 2) take actions as necessary to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to enter into negotiations to execute a Land Transfer Agreement and
such documents and to take actions as may be necessary or appropriate to set forth
an agreement among the Chicago Housing Authority, The City of Chicago, and
Sinai Health System for the implementation of a multi-phased, mixed-use
redevelopment project in the North Lawndale Neighborhood, subject to any
necessary approvals of the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), the City of Chicago and the State of Illinois.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.

Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion for the approval of resolution for General Item 1.

2

 General Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-48
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 21, 2009,
requesting authorization to: 1) approve B-M Ogden, LLC as the selected
developer for the initial housing phase in the Lawndale Complex Redevelopment
area; 2) enter into a pre-development loan agreement with B-M Ogden, LLC; 3)
execute other documents and take such actions as may be necessary to implement
the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) approve B-M Ogden, LLC as the selected developer for the initial
housing phase in the Lawndale Complex Redevelopment area; 2) enter into a predevelopment loan agreement with B-M Ogden, LLC; 3) execute other documents
and take such actions as may be necessary to implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairman of the Operations Committee, then presented a report for the
Joint Tenant Services and Operations Committee Meeting held on Wednesday, April 15, 2009.
Per Commissioner Ponce, the Joint Committees were presented with a report on Section 3 and
Minority compliance and an update on Section 8 Mod Rehab and Housing Choice Voucher
Programs.
Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1, thru A7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Joint Tenant
Services and Operations Committees.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves amendment of the contracts with CVR Associates and
Quadel Consulting Corporation. In 2008, the Board of Commissioners authorized contracts with
CVR and Quadel for the administration and operation to the Housing Choice Voucher Program
Both contracts have terms that end December 31, 2010, with one 2-year option to extend. After
reviewing the vendors’ budgets and administrative needs of the program, staff is recommending
an increase for both contracts from $61,394,171to $66,500,000 due to the following key factors:
A 6.7% increase in the number of families served; addition of 28 staff to manage the HCV Call
Center to improve customer service; increase staff to support work related to the multiple,
unanticipated HUD Office of Inspector General’s Audits; resolution of previously unknown
issues regarding the quality of CHA’s HCV program performance and to increase Housing
Quality Standards inspections by 15%.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the board of commissioners of the Chicago housing authority has reviewed the
board letter dated April 15, 2009, entitled “authorization to increase the funding
for the base term of the contracts with CVR associates, inc. and Quadel consulting
corporation for the administration and operation of the Chicago housing
authority’s section 8 moderate rehabilitation and housing choice voucher
programs”;

3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend the contracts with CVR Associates, Inc. (base contract term of
two (2) years and nine (9) months) and Quadel Consulting Corporation (base
contract term of two (2) years and seven (7) months) and to increase combined
not-to-exceed funding for the contracts’ base term from $61,394,171 to a
combined amount not-to-exceed $66,500,000 for the administration and operation
of the Chicago Housing Authority’s Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation and
Housing Choice Voucher Programs.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves an agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment
Contract with Victory Centre of South Chicago. Victory Center is a 72 unit affordable senior
housing development located on South Burley Avenue in the South Chicago community. It will
be the new construction of a 5 story building containing all one-bedroom apartments for
households 62 years old and older. Eighteen of the units will receive Project-based Voucher
assistance. Building amenities will include a warming kitchen and community room, a beauty
parlor, activity areas, a fitness room with exercise equipment and lounges, a library, a computer
room and on-site parking. 20% of the units will be fully accessible and the remaining 80% will
be adaptable. Also, the building will be connected to the Supportive Living Facility (SLF) that is
currently under construction. Combined, the campus will be one of the first senior housing
projects in the United States to receive LEED Certification. The buildings will be physically
connected allowing residents of the senior apartments to participate in activities and dining in the
SLF and allowing residents in the SLF to reach the City of Chicago Senior Satellite Center also
located in the senior building. In addition, the two buildings will share a secured courtyard for
outdoor activities including raised planting beds to allow gardening by the residents. The site is
well served with neighborhood shopping and services. The owner is a partnership comprised of
Pathway Senior Living, LLC and NHS Redevelopment Corporation as the general partner. The
only cost to CHA toward this development will be the project-based rental subsidy. Projectbased Voucher statutes and regulations will be followed in leasing the18 Project-based Voucher
assisted units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-50
WHEREAS; the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated April 15, 2009 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Enter into an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 18 units at Victory Center of South
Chicago, a low-income senior housing development and 2.) Execute all other
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or her
designee to 1.) Enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract (AHAP) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for 18
units at Victory Centre of South Chicago, a low-income senior housing
development and 2.) Execute all other documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the Tenant Selection Plan (TSP), lease, lease riders, and
bylaws to be used for Robert Taylor Homes replacement housing units at Legends South Phase
A-2. The 138 units, including 60 designated for public housing, 50 as affordable housing, and 28
as market rate units, will be operated by the private developer and made available to previous
residents of Robert Taylor Homes. A public comment period was held from March 9, 2009
through April 7, 2009. A public comment hearing was held on March 18, 2009 at the Hansberry
Square Community Center. Notice for the 30-day comment period was published in the Chicago
Sun-Times, Chicago Defender, and Extra newspapers, as well as posted on the CHA website and
CHA’s Administrative Offices. Consideration will be given to any forthcoming comments prior
to finalizing the documents.

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2009 -CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009,
entitled “Authorization for approval of the Tenant Selection Plan, lease, lease
riders, and bylaws for Robert Taylor Homes Replacement Housing at the on-site
development known as Legends South Phase A-2 and to amend the CHA
Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as
an addendum thereto”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Tenant Selection Plan,
lease, lease riders, and bylaws in substantially the form presented to the Board for
the Robert Taylor Homes replacement housing at the development known as
Legends South Phase A-2. The Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to
approve final changes in these forms, including, but not limited to, changes based
on HUD requirements, or resulting from any applicable notice and comment
process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves Contract Modification No. 2 with Carnow, Canibear &
Associates. In 2008 the CHA exercised Option Year No. 1 to Contract No. 6042 with Carnow to
extend the term of the contract from August 1, 2008 through July 31, 2009 for an amount not-toexceed $250,000.00. Since entering Option Year No. 1, the need for Carnow’s particular area of
expertise has been greater than anticipated, and their funding for the full Option Year is nearly
expended. In order to ensure that their services will be available until the end of Option Year No.
1, additional funding in the not-to-exceed amount of $250,000.00 is needed to cover the
additional work projected. To ensure that the CHA will have firms in place with enough capacity
to address all of the CHA’s environmental consulting needs, a new solicitation for Authoritywide environmental testing and consulting services is already being developed and should be
advertised in time to ensure that new contracts are in place prior to the expiration of Carnow’s
Option Year No. 1.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. 02 TO
CONTRACT NO. 6042 WITH CARNOW, CONIBEAR & ASSOCIATES, LTD.
TO ADD FUNDING TO OPTION YEAR NO. 1”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into Modification No. 02 to Contract No. 6042 with Carnow,
Conibear & Associates, Ltd. to add funding to Option Year No. 1 in the not-toexceed amount of $250,000.00. The new total contract value of Contract No. 6023
is the not-to-exceed amount of $1,000,000.00.

(Item A5)
The CHA advertised an Invitation for Bid (IFB) in February 2009 for the renovation of sixtythree Family Housing units at Lawndale Gardens, Phase 2. Renovation of all other units
includes carpentry repairs, door and hardware replacement, new kitchen and bathroom fixtures,
equipment and accessories, painting, and entirely new MEP systems, equipment and fixtures.
Exterior work includes concrete, new windows, tuckpointing, new roofing and new exterior
doors and signage. Site work includes the installation of new paving and walkways,
landscaping, a parking lot, and new lighting. Environmental work will also be performed. The
IFB was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. The CHA received and opened
ten bids. After a thorough review of all bid submittals staff held a clarification meeting with the
lowest apparent bidder, Walsh Construction Company. A scrivener’s error in the BF pages was
corrected during this meeting; however, its correction did not change Walsh’s status as the
lowest bidder. As a result of the review of the bid materials and the clarification meeting, it was
determined that Walsh is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Accordingly, the

5

 resolution for Item A5 approves award of contract to Walsh Construction for the family housing
renovation at Lawndale Gardens, Phase 2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH WALSH
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY OF IL FOR THE FAMILY HOUSING
RENOVATION AT LAWNDALE GARDENS (IL2-005) – PHASE 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Walsh Construction Company of IL in the
amount of $8,307,767.00 for the site work and renovation of sixty-three (63)
Family Housing units at Lawndale Gardens (IL2-005) – Phase 2, to be completed
by November 28, 2009.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item A6)
An Invitation for Bid (IFB) to perform interior demolition and environmental work at Kenmore
Apartments, 5040 N. Kenmore Avenue, was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA
website in February 2009. The environmental work includes, but is not limited to, asbestos
remediation, lead remediation, microbial remediation, excrement remediation, environmental
cleaning and refuse disposal. This work is needed to prepare for the release of a separate
solicitation to renovate approximately one hundred (100) units at Kenmore Apartments later in
the year. Based on the four bids received and opened clarification meetings were held with the
two lowest bidders. As a result of the review of the bid materials and the clarification meetings,
it was determined that Chicago Commercial Contractors, LLC is the lowest responsive and
responsible bidder at $976,730.00. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A6 approves award of
contract to Chicago Commercial Contractors for the interior demolition at Kenmore Apartments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH CHICAGO
COMMERCIAL CONTRACTORS, LLC FOR INTERIOR DEMOLITION AT
KENMORE APARTMENTS (IL2–010)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Chicago Commercial Contractors, LLC in the
amount of $976,730.00 for interior demolition work at Kenmore Apartments
(IL2-010), a Senior Housing development at 5040 No. Kenmore Ave. The work is
to be completed in ninety-one (91) calendar days from the date set forth in the
Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item A7)
The resolution for Item A7 approves submittal of a DeMinimus Demolition and Disposition
application to HUD for the demolition of 3 units located at 4556 S. Woodlawn and to convey the
land to the Shakespeare Townhome Association upon receipt of approval from HUD. In June of
2001, the CHA purchased twelve units located in four buildings in the Shakespeare Townhomes.
Three of the CHA units located at 4556 S. Woodlawn have suffered extensive interior and
exterior damage, including a leaning building, cracking of exterior and interior walls and water
leaks from the roof and walls, as a result of severe settlement of the foundation. The three (3)
damaged units are governed by the Shakespeare Townhome Association. The Shakespeare

6

 Townhome Association Declaration requires each unit owner to make any necessary repairs
inside and outside of its unit, including masonry repairs. After a thorough engineering and
geotechnical investigation, it was determined that the three (3) units are unfit for occupancy and,
after assessing the repair options and costs, that the most expedient and cost effective method of
repair would be to dismantle the existing three (3) units, construct a new façade end wall and
landscape the remaining site. The new landscaped areas will be conveyed to the Shakespeare
Townhome Association in order to allow the Association to have legal responsibility for the site
and relieve CHA as owner of the units of future townhome assessment payments. Per HUD
regulations at 24 CFR Part 970.8, permission to demolish or dispose of all or a portion of a
development must be requested via submission of the applicable HUD form 52860, and must
include a copy of a resolution by the Authority’s Board of Commissioners approving the
application. The demolition of this property qualifies under HUD’s de minimus rule which
provides that in any five (5) year period, a Public Housing Authority (“PHA”) may demolish 5%
of its dwelling units or five (5) dwelling units, whichever is less by submitting an abbreviated
demolition application. HUD’s acknowledgement of the request allows the PHA to proceed with
the demolition, and pursue the subsequent disposition of the underlying land.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009,
entitled “REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO SUBMIT A DE MINIMUS
DEMOLITION AND DISPOSITION APPLICATION TO THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOR THE
DEMOLITION OF THREE (3) UNITS LOCATED AT 4556 S. WOODLAWN
AND TO DISPOSE OF THE UNDERLYING LAND TO THE SHAKESPEARE
TOWNHOME ASSOCIATION”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a de minimus demolition and a disposition application to the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the demolition
of three (3) units located at 4556 S. Woodlawn and to demolish said property and
convey the underlying land to the Shakespeare Townhome Association upon
receipt of approval from HUD.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Item A1 thru A7 was seconded by Commissioner
Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The joint Tenant Services and Operations Committee report was
also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ivers, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, April 15, 2009, at approximately 2:20 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices. The Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury & Cash Flow Report for the month of March 2009.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1, thru B4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.

7

 (Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the revised FY2009 Budget. The CHA is required to
submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget detailing each of
the following: General Fund, Section 8 Non-MTW, HOPE VI and Other Funding Programs, and
the use for these funds. The FY2009 budgeted expenditures have been revised from
$881,928,660 to $911,368,182, resulting in a $29,439,522 increase. The major changes by
funding source are as follows: General Fund: total revenues and associated expenditures
increased by $28,980,644 for a fund total of $874,643,232. This change reflects anticipated
spending of capital stimulus funds and reflects an increase in the number of vouchers, and
funding previously approved for the Property Purchase Initiative. Section 8 Non-MTW Fund:
total revenues and associated expenditures increased by $81,697 for a fund total of $5,798,259.
This is due to an increase in the average cost per voucher. Hope VI and City State Budget
remained unchanged at $26,294,672 and $1,188,829, respectively. Other Funding. The total
revenues and associated expenditures increased by $377,181 for a fund total of $3,443,190. This
increase is due to non-federal funds being allocated to support general expenses.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 15, 2009,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2009 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2009 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #1”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Amended and Restated Moving To Work Demonstration
Agreement of the Chicago Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves submission of a 2009 Neighborhood Stabilization Program
Grant Application to the Illinois Department of Human Services (IDHS) for the Property
Investment Initiative (PII). Funds from NSP will be used to acquire housing units with three or
more bedrooms and will help IDHS meet its goal to secure housing options for families earning
below 50% AMI. The IDHS Request for Proposal was published March 4, 2009, and makes
available approximately $47 million in assistance through the FY2009 NSP Program. The stated
purpose of the program is to provide assistance to local governments, developers, non-profit
organizations and public housing authorities to acquire, redevelop, or resell foreclosed properties
that might otherwise become sources of abandonment and blight within their communities.
Eligible activities through NSP include 1) establishing financing mechanisms; 2) the purchase
and rehabilitation of homes and residential properties; 3) the establishment of land banks of
foreclosed homes; 4) demolition of blighted structures; and 5) redevelopment of demolished or
vacant property. The program targets individuals and families earning 50% below AMI and
special needs populations (including individuals with disabilities) as priority populations.

8

 RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009,
entitled Authorization to Submit a 2009 Neighborhood Stabilization Program
Grant Application to the Illinois Department of Human Services for the Property
Investment Initiative;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to authorize the submission of a 2009 Neighborhood Stabilization
Program grant application to the Illinois Department of Human Services for the
Property Investment Initiative and to execute such other documents and take such
other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item B3)
In May 2006, the Board approved award of contract to Sentinel for a firm fixed price of
$410,265 for a two year base term, with the option of three, one year term extensions. The one
year term extension options were fixed at an amount not-to-exceed $208,736. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B3 approves contract extension with Sentinel Technologies for Cisco
Equipment Maintenance Service to continue uninterrupted maintenance services in the amount
of $208,227.
RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE (1) YEAR
EXTENSION OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 6036 WITH SENTINEL
TECHNOLOGIES FOR CISCO EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the second one (1) year extension option of Contract No.
6036 with Sentinel Technologies for Cisco Equipment Maintenance Services, in
the amount of $208,227.00.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves the second one year option of contract with Fastch, Inc. for
Sun Maintenance Services. The CHA utilizes Sun hardware and software to support
internal/external communications and the CHA’s essential operating functions. Every CHA
computer is linked together via Sun hardware and software components. Critical core
applications, i.e., Lawson ERP, Yardi, and the Relocation Management Tracking System, would
be adversely affected should the Sun components cease to be operational, and the CHA would be
unable to execute a timely recovery as a result. The Contract was initially awarded at the firm
fixed price of $251,308.16 for a two year base term, with the option of three, one year term
extensions, at a firm, fixed price of $128,181.22, $132,196.48, and $132,196.48 for each of the
respective successive option years.

RESOLUTION NO. 2009-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2009,
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE SECOND ONE (1) YEAR OPTION
OF CONTRACT NO. 6035 WITH FASTECH, INC. FOR SUN
MAINTENANCE SERVICES”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the second one (1) year option with Fastech, Inc., for Sun
Maintenance Services in the amount of $132,196.48.

9

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B4 was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

10

________________________
Martin Nesbitt
Chairman

 