MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 15, 2002
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
October 15 2002 at 8:30 a.m. at the Marcy Newberry Center in Rockwell Gardens located at 2540
West Jackson, in Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was then called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and
absent were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Lori Healey
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
today’s agenda includes the recommendation for approval of the CHA’s Plan for Transformation –
Year 4. By the end of next year, approximately 14,000 of the planned units will have been
completed. The majority of these will be senior and scattered sites rehabs. Also, by the end of Year
4, CHA will have broken ground at seven of the nine major family developments and start to
replace them with viable mixed-income communities. Mr. Peterson then provided the
Commissioners with statistics on the Service Connectors Program and the projected goals for Year
4. Mr. Peterson concluded his presentation by informing the Commissioners that during Year 4,
the number of families returning to CHA will exceed those moving out.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and
the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to discuss
pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and personnel
matters.

The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced a Motion to approve the minutes for the Annual Meeting of August 20, 2002 and
Regular Meeting of September 17, 2002. The minutes for both meetings were unanimously
approved.
1

 Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
A Motion to approve the Resolution for Item No. 1 discussed in Executive Session was then
presented by Commissioner Davis.
(Executive Session Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-136
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 2, 2002 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for September 2002.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for September
2002.

The Motion to adopt the Resolution for Executive Session Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner
Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolution adopted.
General Item 1
On January 6, 2000, the Board of Commissioners approved the agency’s Plan For Transformation
(Plan), calling for sweeping changes in the administration and operation of the CHA. The Plan was
approved by HUD and incorporated into a Moving To Work (MTW) Agreement, executed on
February 6, 2000. The agreement was subsequently amended in February 2001, requiring CHA to
produce and submit an Annul MTW Plan to HUD no less than 60 days prior to the start of CHA’s
fiscal year. The Plan – Year 4 marks a continuation of the original Plan and does not contain any
significant deviations. Rather, it details the steps necessary to achieve the original Plan’s stated
goals. It also includes a list of additional amendments CHA is requesting in order to continue to
implement the Plan. The resolution for General Item 1 approves the MTW Plan-Year 4 and grants
authorization to submit said plan to HUD.
Commissioner Ivers presented a Motion for the approval of the Resolution for General Item 1:
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-137
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated September 16,
2002 requesting approval of the CHA MTW Plan-Year 4, Moving to Work Annual
Plan FY2003" and that the Board of Commissioners Chair sign the "PHA
Certifications of Compliance with MTW Plan Requirements and Related
Regulations", attached hereto
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the attached CHA MTW Plan-Year 4 and the
"PHA Certifications of Compliance with MTW Plan Requirements and Related
Regulations", and grant authorization to submit it to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development.

2

 The Motion to adopt resolution for General Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular meeting
on Wednesday, October 9, 2002 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. No presentations were
scheduled to come before the Committee.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
In January 1999, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) awarded $5million to the CHA to implement
programs to assist residents in achieving self-sufficiency. The original grant period was from
January 1999 through December 2001 and was extended by a previous modification to December
2002. Further time and additional resources are needed to meet the placement and retention goals
required under the terms of the grant agreement. The resolution for Item A2 approves modification
of the sub-grant agreement to extend the term through June 30, 2003 for an additional not-to-exceed
amount of $534,927.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002 CHA-138
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated September 25, 2002 entitled “Authorization to modify sub-grant
agreement with the Mayor’s Office Of Workforce Development under the U.S.
Department Of Labor Welfare To Work Competitive Grant”.
.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes modification of the sub-grant
agreement to the Chicago Works Project partner, Mayor’s Office of Workforce
Development (“MOWD”), under the U.S. Department of Labor Welfare to Work
Competitive Grant to extend the term of the agreement to June 30, 2003 for an
additional amount of $534,927.

(Item A2)
The Authority is currently negotiating a new contract to administer the CHA’s Section 8 program
with Quadel Consulting Corporation. Quadel was the sole respondent to the 2001 Request for
Proposal and is the CHA’s current administrator of the Section 8 programs. Negotiations
commenced in February 2002 and are ongoing. In August 2002, the Board approved Modification
No. 8 for an additional $3,165,564 for a two month contract extension and an increase in fees for
further extensions. The resolution for Item A2 authorizes Modification No. 9 for the period of
October 1 through November 30 for an amount not to-exceed $3,000,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-139
3

 WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 9, 2002
entitled "Authorization to Amend Contract No. 8565 between Quadel Consulting
Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for the Administration of the
Section 8 Programs";
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Modification No. 9 of Contract No. 8565 between Quadel Consulting
Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for the expenditure of a not to
exceed amount of $3,000,000.00, which shall be funded by previous authorized
amounts remaining from prior contract modifications and additional funding in the
amount of $511,391, to Quadel Consulting Corporation for the administration of the
Section 8 programs for the period of October 1, 2002 through November 30,
2002,subject to approval by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Davis, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented the
following report. Per Commissioner Davis, a Joint Operations & Facilities and Finance & Audit
Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, October 9, 2002 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson
Office. Todd Gomez, Chief Financial Officer, and his staff presented the Committee with the
Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of September 30, 2002 and a very informative and
comprehensive report on the FY2003 Budget, which will come before the Board for approval at the
November meeting. Jan Laskey, Managing Director of the MAP Department, presented the
Committees with a comprehensive report on the Plan For Transformation – Year 4.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the approval and adoption of
Resolutions for Items B1 through B13 discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the joint
Committees:

(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves amendment of the revised 2002 Budget. The impact of this
budget revision resulted in the following changes: total revenue and associated expenditures
increased by $26,357,698 in the General Fund due to the allocation of capital funds to the various
CHA Senior properties; total revenue and associated expenditures decreased by $53,297 in PHDEP
due to reduction in planned expenditures and total revenue and associated expenditures decreased
by $28,593,107 in HOPE VI Fund due to the realignment of the budget based on projected spending
in F2002 at various CHA properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-140
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated September 12,
2002, entitled “Approval of the Revised 2002 Comprehensive Budget”;
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“Approval of the Revised 2002 Comprehensive Budget”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:
1.
2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of
Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with
the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago Housing
Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

Item B2
Pursuant to the Authority’s Plan For Transformation, the Authority has undertaken to transform
public housing in the City of Chicago. A key component of the Plan is the development of mixedincome communities. Westhaven Park Apartments Phase I (Henry Horner Phase IIa1) will consist
of 155 units (87 public, 31 affordable and 37 market) located on a portion of each of the two CHAowned parcels that comprise to total Horner Phase II Site. This will be the first new mixed income
community developed entirely on CHA-owned land. In order to facilitate the funding of the
development, the Authority intends to leverage the anticipated revenue stream through the issuance
and sale of the Bonds and the application of the proceeds thereof to fund property improvements.
The Bonds will be issued pursuant to two Indentures of Trust and the proceeds thereof will be
loaned to West Maypole, L.P., the borrower, pursuant to two loan Agreements. Bank of America
will provide construction financing by purchasing the Series 2002A1 and 2002A2 Bonds and by
providing a letter of credit to Fannie Mae in connection with the Series 2002B Bonds during the
construction and lease up phase. The Authority will provide permanent financing through its loan
of HOPE VI funds sufficient to retire the Series 2002A1 Bonds. Fannie Mae will provide
permanent financing through its purchase of the Series 2002B Bonds. The Bonds are not a debt of
any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State of Illinois or any political subdivision
thereof, other than the Authority. The Bonds are special limited obligations of the Authority
payable solely from the revenues of the Project and the other sources specified in the Indentures.
The Resolution for Item B2 approves issuance of Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds Series
2002A1 and A2 and Series 2002B, authorizes to loan HOPE VI moneys to West Maypole, L.P., to
Ground Lease Project Site to West Maypole, to execute and deliver documents in connection
therewith and perform the activities contemplated thereby.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-141
RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO EXCEED
$20,000,000 AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF MULTI-FAMILY
HOUSING REVENUE BONDS (WESTHAVEN PARK APARTMENTS— PHASE
I) OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY IN THREE SERIES AND
AUTHORIZING THE SALE THEREOF; AUTHORIZING THE LOAN OF THE
PROCEEDS OF THE BONDS TO WEST MAYPOLE, L.P. TO BE USED TO PAY
COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE WESTHAVEN PARK APARTMENTS
PROJECT—PHASE I (ALSO KNOWN AS THE HENRY HORNER HOMES
PROJECT—PHASE IIA1); AUTHORIZING THE SALE OF THE SERIES 2002A1
BOND AND SERIES 2002A2 BOND TO BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. AND THE
SALE OF THE SERIES 2002B BONDS TO FANNIE MAE; AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF ALL BOND DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION
WITH THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF THE BONDS; AUTHORIZING A GROUND
LEASE OF THE SITE OF THE PROJECT BY THE AUTHORITY TO WEST
MAYPOLE, L.P.; AUTHORIZING THE LOAN BY THE AUTHORITY OF HOPE
VI FUNDS TO WEST MAYPOLE, L.P. TO PROVIDE PERMANENT FINANCING
5

 FOR CERTAIN COSTS OF THE PROJECT AND TO RETIRE THE SERIES 2002A1
BONDS, AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF ALL AGREEMENTS IN
CONNECTION THEREWITH; AND RELATED MATTERS.

WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois
(the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq.,
and all laws amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local Government
Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of
Illinois (the “State”), including without limitation the Act, to issue its revenue bonds for the
purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the proceeds thereof to finance the
cost of the development and construction of multifamily rental housing located in the jurisdiction of
the Authority; and
WHEREAS, West Maypole, L.P., an Illinois limited partnership (the “Borrower”) proposes to
finance a portion of the costs of the construction of Phase I of the Westhaven Park Apartments
Project (also known as Phase IIa1 of the Henry Horner Homes HOPE VI Revitalization) consisting
of 155 apartment units in 15 buildings in Chicago, Illinois (the “Project”) through the issuance by
the Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bond, Series 2002A1 (Westhaven Park
Apartments—Phase I) (the “Series 2002A1 Bond”), its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bond,
Series 2002A2 (Westhaven Park Apartments—Phase I) (the “Series 2002A2 Bond”) and its
Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 2002B (Westhaven Park Apartments—Phase I) (the
“Series 2002B Bonds” and, together with the Series 2002A1 Bond and the Series 2002A2 Bond,
the “Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, the general partner of the Borrower is West Maypole Partners, LLC, an Illinois
limited liability company; and
WHEREAS, the Commissioners of the Authority, on June 18, 2002 and July 16, 2002 adopted
resolutions authorizing the submission of a mixed-finance proposal for the Project to the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) and a request to HUD to ground
lease the site of the Project to the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing thereof will meet
the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is
now prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project through the
issuance and sale of the Series 2002A1 Bond and Series 2002A2 Bond (collectively, the “Series
2002A Bonds”) pursuant to an Indenture of Trust (the “Series 2002A Indenture”) between the
Authority and LaSalle Bank National Association, as Trustee (the “Series 2002A Trustee”) and
through the issuance and sale of the Series 2002B Bonds pursuant to a Trust Indenture (the “Series
2002B Indenture”) between the Authority and LaSalle Bank National Association, as trustee (the
“Series 2002B Trustee” and, together with the Series 2002A Trustee, the “Trustee”) (the Series
2002A Indenture and the Series 2002B Indenture being referred to collectively herein as the
“Indentures”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Series 2002A Bonds and the Series 2002B Bonds will be
loaned by the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a Loan Agreement (the “Series 2002A Loan
Agreement”) between the Authority and the Borrower and a Financing Agreement (the “Series
2002B Loan Agreement”) between the Authority and the Borrower, respectively (the Series 2002A
Loan Agreement and the Series 2002B Loan Agreement being referred to collectively herein as the
“Loan Agreements”) and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under the Loan
Agreements will be evidenced by Notes (individually, the “Series 2002A Note” and the “Series
2002B Note” and, collectively, the “Notes”) from the Borrower to the Authority which will be
assigned by the Authority to the respective Trustees; and
WHEREAS, certain income and other rental restrictions required by Section 142 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) will be specified in one or more
Regulatory Agreements and Declarations of Restrictive Covenants (the “Regulatory Agreements”)
among the Authority, the Borrower and the Trustee; and
6

 WHEREAS, the Project consists of two noncontiguous parcels referred to herein as the “East
Parcel” and the “West Parcel” and a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds will be loaned to the
Borrower to finance costs of the East Parcel and a portion of the proceeds of the Bonds will be
loaned to the Borrower to finance costs of the West Parcel; and
WHEREAS, certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code
will be specified in one or more Tax Exemption Certificate and Agreements (the “Tax
Agreements”) among the Authority, the Borrower and the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2002A Bonds will be sold by private placement to Bank of America,
N.A. (the “Bank”) pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (the “Series 2002A Bond Purchase
Agreement”) among the Authority, the Borrower and the Bank; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2002B Bonds will be sold by private placement to Federal National
Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (the “Series 2002B
Bond Purchase Agreement” and, together with the Series 2002A Bond Purchase Agreement, the
“Bond Purchase Agreements”) among Fannie Mae, the Authority and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Series 2002B Note will be secured by a
Multifamily Mortgage, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement (the “Series 2002B
Mortgage”) from the Borrower to the Authority and the rights of the Authority to the Series 2002B
Note and Series 2002B Mortgage will be assigned to the Series 2002B Trustee and Fannie Mae
pursuant to an Assignment of Mortgage Loan (the “Assignment”) from the Authority; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the Series 2002B Bonds, the Authority will enter into an
Assignment of Management Agreement (the “Management Agreement Assignment”) among the
Borrower, the Authority and the manager of the Project, and a Replacement Reserve and Security
Agreement (the “Replacement Reserve Agreement”) between the Borrower and the Authority
(which agreements may also be assigned by the Authority to Fannie Mae and/or the Series 2002B
Trustee); and
WHEREAS, from and after the Conversion Date (as defined in the Series 2002B Indenture)
Enterprise Mortgage Investments, Inc. will act as servicer of the Series 2002B Note on behalf of
Fannie Mae; and
WHEREAS, the Bank will issue a letter of credit for the benefit of Fannie Mae in connection
with the Series 2002B Bonds during the construction and lease-up phase of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Authority will lease the site of the Project to the Borrower pursuant to a
Ground Lease (the “Ground Lease”) between the Authority and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2002A1 Bond will be secured by and payable from certain HOPE VI
moneys (“HOPE VI Proceeds”) received by the Authority and deposited pursuant to a HOPE VI
Collateral Escrow Agreement (the “Escrow Agreement”) among the Authority, Daniel E. Levin and
the Habitat Company, jointly, as court-appointed receiver for the Authority for the development of
new non-elderly housing (the “Receiver”), the Borrower and an Escrow Agent; and
WHEREAS, such HOPE VI Proceeds, upon withdrawal under the Escrow Agreement, will
constitute a loan from the Authority (of approximately $13,500,000) to the Borrower pursuant to a
Loan Agreement (the “HOPE VI Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower will be required to operate 87 housing units within the Project for
the use and occupancy of public housing eligible individuals and, in connection therewith, the
Authority will enter into a Regulatory and Operating Agreement (the “HOPE VI Regulatory
Agreement”) with the Borrower and a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants (the “HOPE VI
Declaration”) with the Borrower and with HUD, and the Borrower will execute and deliver to the
Authority a Mortgage, Note, Assignment of Rents and Leases, UCC Financing Statements,
Environmental Agreement and related agreements and instruments (the “HOPE VI Borrower
Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, other sources of funding for costs of the Project will be provided by (a) the City
of Chicago (the “City”) pursuant to an $8,500,000 subordinate loan by the City to the Borrower,
7

 (b) the Illinois Housing Development Authority (“IHDA”) pursuant to a $750,000 subordinate loan
by IHDA to the Borrower, and (c) equity contributions by the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds and the other funding sources will be disbursed
pursuant to a Construction Loan Escrow and Disbursement Agreement (the “Disbursement
Agreement”) among the Authority, the Receiver, the Trustee, the Bank, Fannie Mae, the Borrower,
the City, IHDA, the Project contractor and a disbursing agent; and
WHEREAS, notice of a public hearing with respect to the proposed issuance of the Bonds was
published in the Chicago Sun Times, La Raza and the Chicago Defender; and
WHEREAS, on October 11, 2002, said public hearing was conducted on behalf of the
Authority pursuant to which an opportunity was provided for residents and other interested persons
to present arguments for and against the Project and the proposed issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”)
(i) have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii) will be paid on
or after the passage of this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City has approved the transfer to the Authority of up to
$20,000,000 of the City’s available unused volume cap for calendar year 2002 pursuant to Section
146 of the Code for use by the Authority in connection with the issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Authority, the Receiver and HUD will enter into a Mixed-Finance
Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract with HUD; and
WHEREAS, the Indentures, the Loan Agreements, the Bonds, the Notes, the Regulatory
Agreements, the Bond Purchase Agreements, the Tax Agreements, the Assignment, the Escrow
Agreement, the Ground Lease, the Series 2002B Mortgage, the Management Agreement
Assignment, the Replacement Reserve Agreement, the HOPE VI Loan Agreement, the HOPE VI
Regulatory Agreement, the Mixed-Finance Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract, the
HOPE VI Declaration, the HOPE VI Borrower Agreements and the Disbursement Agreement are
referred to collectively herein as the “Authority Agreements”; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has caused to be prepared and presented to this meeting each of the
Authority Agreements;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
Section 1. The Authority is authorized to enter into the Authority Agreements with the
other party or parties thereto in substantially the same forms now before the Authority. The forms,
terms and provisions of the Authority Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority be, and
each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and deliver, and, where
necessary, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Secretary or any
Assistant Secretary of the Authority be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and
directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the
name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority Agreements to be
executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or parties thereto, in substantially the
forms now before the Authority or with such changes therein as the individual executing the
Authority Agreements on behalf of the Authority shall approve, his or her execution thereof to
constitute conclusive evidence of such approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the
forms of Authority Agreements now before the Authority. When the Authority Agreements are
executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they
shall be binding on the Authority. From and after the execution and delivery of the Authority
Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to
carry out and comply with the provisions of the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority
Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the
8

 Authority Agreements shall be placed in the official records of the Authority, and shall be available
for public inspection at the office of the Authority.
Section 2. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $20,000,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Indentures. The
Bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates as shall be set forth in the Indentures, in no event to
exceed the greater of 9% per annum or 125% of the rate for the most recent date shown in the 20
G.O. Bonds Index of average municipal bond yields as published in the most recent edition of the
Bond Buyer (or any successor publication or index). The Bonds shall mature on such date or dates
as shall be set forth in the Indentures, but in no event later than 40 years following the date of their
initial issuance and delivery to the initial purchasers thereof. The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Indentures.
Section 3. The Bonds and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the
Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the respective Loan
Agreements or from the other sources specified or referred to in the respective Indentures, which
shall be specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent provided
therein. The Bonds and all other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith shall not be a
debt of the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of Illinois or any
political subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village, incorporated town or
county, nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be liable thereon, nor in
any event shall the Bonds or such obligations be payable out of any funds or properties other than
those pledged under the Indentures or those other agreements specifically securing the Bonds. The
Bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory
debt limitation or restriction.
Section 4. The forms of the Bonds set forth in the Indentures, subject to appropriate
insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Indentures (as executed and
delivered) be, and the same hereby are approved. The Bonds shall be executed in the name, for and
on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman (or such other
officer authorized by law to execute the Bonds on behalf of the Authority) and attested with the
manual or facsimile signature of its Executive Advisor to the Board, Secretary or Assistant
Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Bonds on behalf of the Authority)
and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. The officers of the Authority
shall cause the Bonds, as so executed and attested, to be delivered to the Trustee for authentication.
When the Bonds shall be executed on behalf of the Authority in the manner contemplated by the
Indentures and this Resolution, they shall represent the approved forms of Bonds of the Authority.

Section 5. The sale of the Series 2002A Bonds to the Bank at a purchase price of not less
than 97% (exclusive of original issue discount) of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus
accrued interest, if any, to the date of delivery, is hereby approved. The sale of the Series 2002B
Bonds to Fannie Mae at a purchase price not less than 97% (exclusive of original issue discount) of
the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of delivery, is hereby
approved. The Bonds may be sold with original issue premium or discount.
Section 6. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive
Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of
them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings of
the Authority (including, without limitation, environmental remediation agreements, investment
agreements, book-entry registration agreements, and intercreditor agreements) and to take such
other actions as may be required or desirable in connection with the execution, delivery and
performance of the Authority Agreements, the financing of costs of the Project and the issuance,
sale and delivery of the Bonds.
Section 7. All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects, ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 8. The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public hearing and
the conduct of such public hearing by and on behalf of the Authority with respect to the issuance of
the Bonds is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
9

 Section 9. The Authority authorizes any public hearings pursuant to Section 147(f) of the
Code for future issuances by the Authority of multifamily housing revenue bonds to be conducted
either at meetings of the Board of Commissioners or any committee of Commissioners of the
Authority or separately, on behalf of the Authority, by any designee of the Chairman of the
Authority or, in the absence of such designation, by the Authority’s Managing DirectorDevelopment, or Director-Development Management, its Chief Financial Officer, or its Deputy
Chief Financial Officer which are hereby designated hearing officers of the Authority for such
purpose. The officers of the Authority are authorized to seek the approval of the Bonds by an
“applicable elected representative” of the City pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code.
Section 10. The Authority hereby allocates to the Bonds the “volume cap” reallocated by
the City to the Authority in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds
actually to be issued.
Section 11. The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Expenditures with proceeds of the Bonds.
Section 12. The Bonds, or any one or more series thereof, may be initially issued in bookentry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York
(“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities depository.
Section 13. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if
any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of
this Resolution.
Section 14. All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby
superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 15.
This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its
passage, as by law provided.
(Item B3 - THIS NUMBER NOT USED)
(Item B4 – THIS NUMBER NOT USED)

(Item B5)
CHA is entering into an agreement with West Maypole, L.P., a limited partnership controlled by
Brinshore Development and The Michaels Development Company for the redevelopment of Horner
Homes Phase IIa1. As part of the Horner redevelopment, CHA is responsible for all environmental
remediation and legal costs associated with any potential liabilities from preexisting conditions. In
order to provide the CHA with protection from any unanticipated environmental liability, CHA
engaged its broker of record, Near North Insurance Brokerage, Inc., to solicit competitive bids for
environmental insurance. In response to this solicitation, 3 bids and 3 declinations were received.
After review of the responses, CHA’s Risk Management Department and the Office of
Development Management selected XL Capital Group based upon a price and coverage analysis for
a ten year environmental insurance Policy. The resolution for Item B5 approves a ten year
environmental insurance policy for Horner Phase IIa1 to be written through XL Capital Group.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA -142
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September 19,
2002 entitled "Authorization to Award Environmental Insurance Coverage for Henry
Horner Homes to XL Capital Group” and concurs with the recommendation
contained therein.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
procure a ten- year environmental insurance policy for Henry Horner Homes Phase
IIa1 through its broker of record, Near North Insurance Brokerage, Inc., to be written
10

 through XL Capital Group for a one-time premium not-to-exceed $278,332, subject
to HUD approval, if required.
(Item B6)
In support of the Horner Phase IIa1 redevelopment project (also known as Westhaven Park
Apartments-Phase I), the resolution for Item B6 approves award of contract to Walsh Construction
Company for environmental remediation activities. The Brinshore-Michaels development team was
the successful respondent to the CHA’s solicitation for the redevelopment of Horner. As part of the
Revitalization Plan approved by HUD, the entire development team was outlined along with the
roles that each team member would play. Walsh Construction was named as the general contractor
and HUD has indicated that they accept the competitive procurement process for the remediation
activities. The benefits on the selection of Walsh are namely the continuity of schedule, continuity
of activity and economy of scale.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-143
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 30, 2002
entitled “Authorization to enter into a contract with Walsh Construction Company of
Illinois for environmental remediation activities in connection with the Brinshore
Michael Development Team as a result of the HUD approved Revitalization Plan at
the Henry Horner Homes Redevelopment Site”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes, the Chief Executive Officer or his designee,
subject to approval of MBE/WBE and Section 3 compliance by the Contracting
Officer and HUD approval, to enter into a contract with Walsh Construction
Company of Illinois, for a total amount not-to-exceed $2,300,000 (for estimated
remediation cost of Phase IIa1) plus an additional amount for unforeseen conditions
to the extent required by the Development Agreement (only if required for
unforeseen conditions) for environmental remediation activities in support of the
Henry Horner Homes Phase IIa1 (also known as Westhaven Park Apartments-Phase
I) redevelopment project. CHA anticipates that should such unforeseen conditions
arise, they will be covered by insurance, with the exception of up to a $600,000.00
deductible, which will be covered by CHA’s insurance reserves. The term of the
Walsh contract shall be the earlier of, receipt of a “No Further Remediation” (NFR)
letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency with regard to Henry
Horner Homes Phase IIa1.

(Item B7)
The East Lake Management and Development Corporation was selected as the result of an RFQ
issued by the CHA and the court-appointed Gautreaux Receiver and The Habitat Company for the
redevelopment of the Rockwell Gardens site into a mixed-income community. The Development
Agreement calls for the development of a mixed-income community of approximately 780 units,
including 520 rental units and 260 for-sale units. Of the rental, 260 are planned as public housing
units, 200 as affordable units and 60 as market-rate units. Under the Development agreement, the
Developer will be responsible for certain planning and predevelopment activities, assembling
financing, construction, and managing the development process. The CHA and Receiver are
committing an amount not to exceed $31,970,644 in funding, consisting of 2001 HOPE VI
Revitalization funds. The resolution for Item B7 approves the Redevelopment Agreement with The
Habitat Company, the Receiver and East Lake Management and Development Corporation for the
mixed finance development of Rockwell Gardens, subject to HUD approval.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-144
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 13,
2002, requesting authorization to enter into a Redevelopment Agreement with East
Lake Management and Development Corporation for the mixed-finance
development of Rockwell Gardens.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into, on behalf of the Authority, a Redevelopment Agreement with Daniel E.
Levin and The Habitat Company, the Gautreaux Receiver (“Receiver”) and East
Lake Management and Development Corporation (“Developer”) for the mixed
finance development of Rockwell Gardens in a contract amount not to exceed
11

 $31,970,644, subject to HUD approval. The not-to-exceed contract amount is
exclusive of any environmental remediation costs that may be required for the
redevelopment of site.
(Item B8)
The City of Chicago is working with various developers on future developments in the metropolitan
area. The resolution for Item B8 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement for land transfers with
the City in exchange for CHA-owned parcels. The CHA will transfer 11 parcels needed for various
projects to the City. In exchange, the City will transfer 29 City-owned parcels to the CHA to
implement the CHA’s various redevelopment efforts. The CHA parcels to be conveyed to the CHA
will be redeveloped in association with the Taylor off-site and Washington Park redevelopments.
The City parcels exceed the square footage of the CHA owned parcels by approximately 900 square
feet. An environmental review will be completed for the City’s land prior to conveyance. If
conditions exist that require remediation costs to be incurred, Board approval will be sought.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-145
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated October 15, 2002
entitled “Approval of Intergovernmental Agreement for Land Transfers with the City
of Chicago for City-Owned Parcels in Various Communities in Exchange for CHAOwned Parcels in Various Communities and Authorization for Submission of
Disposition and Acquisition Applications to the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development” and concurs with the recommendations therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to (1) execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago to convey
218,076 sq. ft. of CHA-owned parcels in various communities to the City of Chicago
in exchange for the acquisition of 218,948 sq. ft. of City-owned parcels in various
communities; (2) submit the necessary disposition and acquisition applications to the
U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to implement the land
transfer agreement; and (3) execute any other necessary documents for the land
transfer.

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves Contract Modifications with K.R. Miller in an aggregate
amount of $229,951.56 for general renovations at fifteen senior housing locations. The reasons for
the change orders necessitating this contract modification are as follows: discovered or changed
conditions which could not have been reasonably determined at the time of contract document
preparation, owners directed changes and design corrections.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-146
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated September 25, 2002,
entitled, “Authorization to execute Modification No. 5 G-03, G-04 and G-05 to
Contract No. 9684 with K.R. Miller Contractors, Inc. for general renovation of
fifteen (15) Senior Housing locations”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute the following Contract Modifications to Contract No. 9684 with K.R.
Miller Contractors, Inc. for an aggregate amount of $229,951.56 for the general
renovations at fifteen (15) Senior Housing locations: (a) No. G-03 for $57,237.84;
(b) No. G-04 for $49,342.72; and (c) No. G-05 for $123,371.00, which is subject to
HUD approval. The new contract amount, including these three contract
modifications, will be $28,515,776.53. The time for completion of work under the
contract will remain unchanged.

(Item B10)
The Authority issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) in July 2002, soliciting qualified firms to provide
emergency repairs for all pump systems, which are part of the heating plants at various CHA
developments. Of the five bids received, they were all deemed responsible. Due to the possibility
that multiple emergencies could arise at the same time and exceed the manpower capabilities of any
one or two of the contractors, it was decided to award contracts to the three lowest responsive and
responsible bidders for a cumulative amount not-to-exceed $150,000.
12

 RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-147
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated September 30, 2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into three (3)
separate contracts with All Chicago Inc., Bert C. Young & Sons Corporation and
Omni Pump Repairs, Inc. for emergency pump repair services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into three (3) separate contracts with All Chicago, Inc., Bert C. Young &
Sons Corporation and Omni Pump Repairs, Inc. for emergency pump repair services
at various CHA heating plant locations in a not-to-exceed amount of $50,000.00
each, for a cumulative amount not-to-exceed $150,000.00 for a twenty-four month
term with one, one year option, subject to HUD approval.

(Item B11)
The Authority issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) in July 2002, soliciting qualified firms to provide
emergency boiler repair services at various CHA heating plants. Of the five bids received, they
were all deemed responsible. Due to the possibility that multiple emergencies could arise at the
same time and exceed the manpower capabilities of any one or two of the contractors, it was
decided to award contracts to the three lowest responsive and responsible bidders for a cumulative
amount not-to-exceed $200,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-148
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 30, 2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into three (3) separate
contracts with All Chicago, Inc., Heatmasters Inc. and Bert C. Young & Sons
Corporation for emergency boiler repair services.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into three (3) separate contracts with All Chicago, Inc., Heatmasters, Inc.
and Bert C. Young & Sons Corporation for emergency boiler repair services in an
amount of $66,666.00 each, for a cumulative amount not-to-exceed $200,000.00 for
a twenty-four month term with one, one year option to extend, subject to HUD
approval.

(Item B12)
The Authority issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) in July 2002, soliciting qualified firms to provide
emergency boiler repair services at various CHA development heating plants. Of the nine bids
received, one was deemed non-responsive. Due to the possibility that multiple emergencies could
arise at the same time and exceed the manpower capabilities of any one or two of the contractors, it
was decided to award contracts to the three lowest responsive and responsible bidders for a
cumulative amount not-to-exceed $150,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-149
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 30, 2002 entitled “Authorization to enter into three (3) separate
contracts with All Chicago, Inc., B.H.U.R., Inc. and C & P Maintenance Co., Inc. for
emergency HVAC Repair services.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into three (3) contracts with All Chicago, Inc., B.H.U.R, Inc. and C & P
Maintenance Co., Inc. for emergency HVAC repair services in an amount of
$50,000.00 each for a cumulative amount not-to-exceed $150,000.00 for a twentyfour month term with one, one year option to extend, subject to HUD approval.

(Item B13)
The resolution for Item B13 approves modification of the Comprehensive Grant Program Budget
allocation from the Dearborn Homes Resident Management Corporation (RMC) to McCormack
13

 Baron Management Services, Inc. for the continuation of building consolidation and renovation of
units under the CHA’s “Make-Ready” program. The reallocation of these funds is necessary due to
McCormack Baron succeeding Dearborn Homes RMC as the property manager at Dearborn
Homes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-CHA-150
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated September 30,
2002 entitled, “Authorization to modify Comprehensive Grant Program Budget
Allocation and Disbursement for building consolidation initiative”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the modification to Board Resolution No.
2001-CHA-106 in order to reallocate Comprehensive Grant Program (“CGP”) funds
in a cumulative not-to-exceed amount of $2,505,000 from the Dearborn Homes
Resident Management Corporation to McCormack Baron Management Services,
Inc. for the continuation of building consolidation and renovation of units under the
CHA’s “make-ready” program and authorizes the CHA to proceed with the
disbursement of the CGP funds to McCormack Baron Management Services, Inc. for
the purpose of “make-ready” unit construction. The total amount of Comprehensive
Grant Program funds to be allocated and disbursed to the Private Management Firm
is as follows:

Development

Private Management Firm

Dearborn

McCormack Baron

Preliminary Make-Ready
Budget Estimate
$2,505,000

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B13 was seconded by
Commissioner Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The joint Operations and Finance Committee report was also accepted in
total.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded and
carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B: Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
S/B: Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

14

 