June 13, 2012 ITEM NO. A2

RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH HOUSING CHOICE
PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS AND HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES UNLIMITED TO
PROVIDE MOBILITY COUNSELING PROGRAM

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

RECOMMENDATI 
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners (?Board?) authorize the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to execute contracts with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois 
and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$1,341,780 for a 1-year base term with 3 additional 1-year option periods to provide 
Mobility Counseling Program (the ?Program") for eligible families moving to Opportunity
Areas.

FUNDINQ SUMMARY

General Fund
Vendors:
Housing Choice Partners of Illinois Housing Opportunities Unlimited
28 East Jackson Suite 1109 50 Red?eld Street Suite 101
Chicago, Illinois 60604 Boston, Massachusetts 02122
Base Term Contract Amount: $700,700 Base Term Contract Amount: $641,080
Speci?cation No.: 12-00902 Dates Advertised: 3/12, 14, 16/ 2-12
Contract Type: Cost Reimbursement Pro-Proposal Conference: 3/26/2012
Contract Period: One (1) Year Date Proposals Due: 4/16/2012
Aggregate Contract Amount: $1,341,080 Advertisement: Chicago Sun Times,

Chicago Defender, and Extra

Option Period: 3 l-Year Options Number of Pick-Ups: 16

Number of Proposals Received: 2
Number of Vendors Solicited: 13
MBE: 0 WBE: 6 DBE: 0
Noti?cation to Assist Agencies: 64

Housing Choice Partners of Illinpis: Waiver Approved

Section 3: Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

 

 

Housing Opmrtunities Unlimited: Partial Waiver Approved
1.6 (Indirect) 

Section 3: 2 Hiring Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

EXPLANATION

Mobili? Counseling Histog
The impetus for the Program is to assist families receiving a Housing Choice Voucher 

subsidy in moving to an Opportunity Area within the city of Chicago. An Opportunity Area has
previously been de?ned as a community (census tract) with less than 23.49% of individuals
having income below poverty level and no more than 30% of resident families being African
American. Working closely with Business and Professional People for the Public Interest
CHA has re-defined Opportunity Area to communities that have no more than 20% of
individuals having income below poverty level and no more than 5% of the housing stock are
subsidized housing units. The Program?s goal of de-concentrating subsidized units and
encouraging families to move to Opportunity Areas is aligned with new corporate
strategies that focus on helping families maximize their potential, move toward economic
independence and creating complete, healthy and strong communities.

Supported by HUD as an effective means to meet the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility
Act of 1998, Mobility Program helps educate HCV tenants about relocation into
Opportunity Areas within the city of Chicago. Counseling agencies provide HCV families with
the tools needed to make informed choices on the neighborhoods that are best for their family
crime statistics, availability of transportation and information on local schools for their
children) and establish relationships with landlords to ensure quality units are available for HCV
families who desire to relocate to Opportunity Areas. Counseling agencies also work with
landlords to educate them on exception rents and promote HCV tax incentive options.
Ultimately, the Mobility Program seeks to increase the number of families receiving an HCV
subsidy in Opportunity Areas, while addressing the existing barriers of mobility. Any lease
compliant HCV family, currently not living in an Opportunity Area is eligible for services
through the Mobility Program.

From 2001 through 2010, the Program was administered by Quadel, former HCV
contractor. In January 2011, CHA took over direct administration of the Program by contracting
directly with counseling agencies that were already providing similar services to public housing
families impacted by relocation.

Since taking over direct administration of the Program, CHA has worked closely with advocates
to expand mobility services. CHA now offers more housing choices to participants moving to
Opportunity Areas by approving special exception payment standards up to 300% of the HUD
published Fair Market Rent for Chicago. From January 2011 through May 2012, the
Program has provided community tours to over 500 families and assisted 437 families move to
Opportunity Areas throughout the city of Chicago. This is more than a 50% increase in moves to
Opportunity Areas from 2010. It is anticipated that at least 400 families will move to an
Opportunity Area during the ?rst year of these agreements.

Mobility Counseling Services

The target population for the Mobility Program includes:
0 current HCV participants not currently residing in an Opportunity Area;
0 new participants moving in from the HCV waitlist; and

 HCV participants porting in from another housing authority.

contracted counseling agencies will conduct outreach to HCV participants using a variety
of methods including, but not limited to: targeted outreach to families living in communities with
the highest level of subsidized units, presentations at HCV moving brie?ngs and special events,
and through website.

Interested families must ?rst attend an orientation conducted by one of the recommended
mobility counseling agencies. After completing the initial orientation, participants will be
engaged in mobility counseling workshops. The counseling sessions will include
topics such as: (1) housing search techniques, identifying appropriate neighborhoods and tenant
rights; (2) comparing schools, crime statistics, transportation options, employment opportunities,
etc.; (3) selecting schools using test scores, class sizes, dollars spent per pupil; and (4)
information on resources available in community areas, techniques for locating additional
community resources, what it means to be a good neighbor, etc.

Engaged families will also participate in community tours to Opportunity Areas and attend open
houses of available units. The counseling agencies will provide information and resources on
Opportunity neighborhoods including, but not limited to, public transportation, available
community and social services, day care facilities, schools and other resources that speci?cally
address the needs of the individual family. Once an appropriate unit has been selected, the
counseling agencies will assist in facilitating the process for a move with the HCV department
unit inspection, rent calculation, leasing process, move papers, etc.). Upon ?nalizing the
move to an Opportunity Area, HCV families will be eligible for a move incentive of up to $500
that may be utilized for security deposit assistance, new ?rmiture or other costs associated with a
move.

Counseling agencies will provide follow-up services to families at 30 days and 180 days a?er the
move. Follow-up services may include: (1) verifying all school age family members are enrolled
in a school and provide additional services, if necessary, to help the family determine the most
appropriate school choices; (2) ensuring the family is aware of, and engaged where appropriate,
with available community and city services, including being referred to CHA supportive
services; and (3) coordinating with the owner and/or property manager on any issues that may
have arisen with the leaseholder since their move-in.

Contractor Backgmund
The two (2) selected vendors have a unique combination of experience to provide mobility

services. Following a competitive procurement process, CHA is recommending:

HCP has provided relocation services to CHA public housing families through the
relocation program since 2003 and mobility services to the HCV population since 2011.
In addition to the Program, HCP will continue to assist public housing families referred
by CI-IA for relocation services if the family is being required to relocate due to
scheduled building closure for rehabilitation or redevelopment, emergency situations or
special requests as determined by CHA has been satis?ed with 
performance.

I has more than 30 years experience providing mobility counseling services, case
management, and resident services in more than 15 states and the District of Columbia.
HOU has worked in a diverse range of experience working with low and mixed-income
communities. HOU specializes in assisting communities that are in transition due to
redevelopment.

Procurement Hiya
The CHA advertised the Request for Proposal No. 12-00902 on March 12, 2012 in the

Chicago Sun Times, Extra, and the Chicago Defender to solicit vendors to provide relocation and
mobility counseling services and educate CHA families on the bene?ts of moving into
Opportunity Areas. Additionally, 64 Assist Agencies received noti?cation of the solicitation,
and copies were made available at the CHA of?ces at 60 East Van Buren, 13th Floor. CHA also
directly solicited 13 ?rms, and posted the solicitation announcement on website and in
BuySpeed. A Pre-Proposal Conference was held on March 26, 2012 with representatives from 3
?rms in attendance. On April 16, 2012, the CHA received 2 proposals, from HOU and HCP. An
evaluation committee consisting of 3 members evaluated both proposals.

After the evaluation committee completed its analysis of the proposals, a competitive range was
set and approved by the Contracting Of?cer. Both ?rms were found to be within the competitive
range and were invited to participate in oral presentations on May 2, 2012. After the
presentations, and additional clari?cations via telephone, best and ?nal offers were requested and
submitted by both ?rms. Based upon the evaluations of the written proposals, oral presentations
and best and ?nal offers, it was determined that both vendors would provide the best overall
service and value to CHA.

9932M
Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to authorize the Chief Executive

Of?cer, or his designee, to enter into cost reimbursement contracts for a one (1) year base term
with Housing Choice Partners of Illinois in an amount not-to-exceed $700,700 for the base term
and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an amount not-to?exceed $641,080 for the base term,
with each contract having 3 additional l-year options, to provide Mobility Counseling
Program.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-45

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the

Board Letter dated June 13, 2012, entitled TO ENTER
INTO CONTRACTS WITH HOUSING CHOICE PARTNERS OF ILLINOIS
AND HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES UNLIMITED TO PROVIDE 
MOBILITY COUNSELING 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into cost reimbursement contracts for a 1-year base term with
Housing Choice Farmers of Illinois in an amount not-to-excwd $700,000 for the
base term and Housing Opportunities Unlimited in an amount not-to-exceed
$641,080 for the base term, with each contract having 3 additional 1-year options,
to provide Mobility Counseling Program.



A 
I, I
Board of Com? taioners

   
   

   
 

q,l- 14:2. Li": . 
m! Max?:- arrange fee-he.? ?It mm.mt-asla.org

