MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
June 19, 2018
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, June 19, 2018, at approximately 11:00 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices
located at 60 E. Van Buren in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker then called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Absent:

Francine Washington

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting at 8:30 a.m. today
at the CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the following
committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer, Harte and Matos. Present also but
not counted for the quorum were Chairman John Hooker, Vice-Chairman Craig Chico and
Commissioner Jack Markowski. Committee members then voted to adjourn to closed session to discuss
certain audit reviews and investigatory matters. Committee members then returned to open session and
discussed, voted and recommended for approval the following five items.
On behalf of the Finance & Audit Committee, Committee Chairman Markowski presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 1 through 5.
(Item 1)
HUD requires public housing authorities to annually publish a complete set of financial statements
presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and audited in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1 approves the CHA’s Single Audit Report, Financial Statement
Audit and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the year ended December 31, 2017, and
authorize the CEO to submit such documents to HUD. The CHA is required to submit the Single Audit
1

 Report to HUD by September 30, 2018, nine months after the end of its fiscal year (December 31, 2017).
For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Authority engaged Ernst and Young to audit its results and
issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report in accordance with HUD requirements.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 19, 2018 and
attached hereto entitled “Recommendation to Accept and Submit to HUD the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Single Audit Report, Financial Statement Audit and Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report for The Year Ended December 31, 2017”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby accepts the Authority’s 2017 Single Audit Report,
and Financial Statement Audit and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for The Year
Ended December 31, 2017

THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit the Single Audit Report, Financial Statement Audit and
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the year ended December 31, 2017 to the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves the execution and delivery of the final form of Master Trust
Indenture, Supplemental Trust Indenture, if required, Bond Purchase Agreement, the Bonds and such
other documentation in order to issue and sell not more than $350,000,000 principal amount of Chicago
Housing Authority General Obligation Bonds in one or more tax-exempt and/or taxable series. The
Chicago Housing Authority will complete numerous capital projects in the next 3-5 years using these
bond proceeds. The projects include needed repairs and maintenance to CHA’s public housing portfolio
and development projects that will result in new mixed income and project-based voucher units. The
bond proceeds allow CHA to accelerate these projects into that 3-5-year timeframe as opposed to
completing the projects over a significantly longer period of time on a pay-as-you-go process utilizing
annual HUD funding. The Authority will be providing more and better housing units sooner by using
the proceeds of this bond issue. The proceeds of the bond issue will be used to: (i) finance certain
capital costs of the CHA, including capitalized interest; (ii) fund an account in the Debt Service Reserve
Fund for the Bonds; (iii) pay costs associated with the issuance of the Bonds; and (iv) to reimburse CHA
for allowable Capital expenditures.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-40
Resolution providing for the issuance of not to exceed
$350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of General Obligation
Bonds in one or more tax-exempt and/or taxable series of the
Chicago Housing Authority pursuant to an Indenture; authorizing
the sale thereof pursuant to a Purchase Contract; authorizing the
preparation, execution and distribution of a Preliminary Official
Statement and an Official Statement; authorizing the execution
2

 and delivery of a Continuing Disclosure Undertaking;
authorizing the execution and delivery of a Tax Certificate; and
related matters.
*

*

*

WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body corporate and politic,
duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois
(the “Authority”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois (the “State”),
including, without limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1, et seq., and all
laws amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local Government
Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1, et seq., as amended (collectively, the “Act”) to acquire
and dispose of improved or unimproved property, to remove unsanitary or substandard
conditions, to construct and operate housing accommodations, to regulate the
maintenance of housing projects and to borrow, expend, loan, invest, and repay monies
for the purposes set forth in the Act and such powers are public objects and governmental
functions essential to the public interest; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has the power to issue its bonds to finance in whole or in part the cost of
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, alteration, extension or
repair of any project or undertaking pursuant to the Act and to secure such bonds by
pledges of its revenues, or in any other manner provided under the Act; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Authority (the “Board”) has considered the needs of
the Authority and, in so doing, the Board has determined that sufficient capital funds of
the Authority are not available to pay for various capital improvements of the Authority
including, in connection with said work, acquisition of all land or rights in land,
mechanical, electrical, and other services necessary, useful, or advisable thereto (the
“Project”), all as projected in the Authority’s 5-year capital plan, and the Board has
deemed and does now deem it advisable, necessary and in the best interests of the
Authority to finance the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined the total cost of the Project and expenses incidental thereto,
including financial, legal, architectural, and engineering services related to such work
provided for in this Resolution to be not to exceed $350,000,000, plus estimated
investment earnings which may be received on said sum prior to disbursement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority desires to
authorize the issuance and sale of not to exceed $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount
of its general obligation bonds, in one or more series, the interest on which may be
excludable from gross income from the holders thereof (“Tax-Exempt Bonds”) or
includable in gross income of the holders thereof (“Taxable Bonds”), to be issued as
bonds or other obligations permitted to be issued under the Act (collectively, the
“Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Bonds will be applied to finance the Project, fund a debt service
reserve deposit, fund a capitalized interest deposit and pay the costs of issuing the Bonds,
each as applicable; and
3

 WHEREAS, the Authority proposes (a) to issue the Bonds pursuant to a trust indenture between the
Authority and a corporate trustee (the “Indenture”), which shall establish, among other
things, the terms of the Bonds and the security therefor, (b) to sell the Bonds to the
underwriters thereof pursuant to a bond purchase agreement (the “Purchase Contract”)
and to distribute a preliminary official statement and a final official statement in
connection therewith, (c) to undertake continuing disclosure for the Bonds pursuant to a
Continuing Disclosure Undertaking (as defined herein) and (d) to execute a non-arbitrage
certificate (the “Tax Certificate”) with respect to the Tax-Exempt Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds shall not be a debt of any city, village, incorporated town or county, or the State
or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority and neither the city, village,
incorporated town or the county, nor the State or any political subdivision thereof (other
than the Authority) will be liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Bonds be payable out
of any funds or properties other than those of the Authority; and
WHEREAS, the Authority expects to apply the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Bonds and the Taxable
Bonds to reimburse itself for certain expenditures relating to the Project paid prior to the
date of this Resolution or that will be paid on or after the date of this Resolution
(collectively, the “Expenditures”); and
WHEREAS, for purposes of Treasury Regulation Section 1.150-2, to the extent that proceeds of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds are applied to reimburse the Authority for Expenditures, such
Expenditures shall have been paid not earlier than 60 days prior to the date of this
Resolution; and
WHEREAS,

the Board deems it in the best interests of the Authority to direct any one or more of the
Chief Executive Officer (or his designee), Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment
Officer, Chief Procurement Officer or Chief Legal Officer (each an “Authorized
Officer”), with the concurrence of a second Authorized Officer, to take all steps
necessary to issue the Bonds for the purposes authorized hereby; and

NOW, THEREFORE, Be It Resolved by the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority;
Section 1.
Authority Incorporation of Preambles. The Board hereby finds that all of the
recitals contained in the preambles to this Resolution are full, true and correct and does incorporate them
into this Resolution by this reference.
Section 2.
Authorization of Bonds; Bond Details. The issuance and sale of the Bonds, in one
or more series, as Tax-Exempt and/or Taxable Bonds, are hereby authorized for purposes of financing
the Project, funding a debt service reserve deposit, funding a capitalized interest deposit and paying the
costs of issuing the Bonds, each as applicable. The Board hereby authorizes and directs one or more of
the Authorized Officers, with the concurrence of a second Authorized Officer, to specify the final terms
of the Bonds in the Indenture, including, without limitation, the final principal amounts, series
designations, denominations and forms thereof, the maturity schedule(s) and security therefor, the
redemption provisions applicable thereto, and such other terms, conditions and provisions as shall be
deemed necessary or advisable; provided that the Bonds shall be issued in an aggregate principal amount
not to exceed $350,000,000, shall bear interest at rates that do not exceed 7%, and shall mature not later
than 30 years from their date of issuance.
4

 Section 3.
Authorization of Indenture. The Indenture is hereby authorized to be executed
and delivered substantially in the form of indentures commonly used by the Authority or other issuers of
municipal bonds in transactions similar to that described in this Resolution, subject to the parameters set
forth herein and subject further to such changes, insertions, omissions and completion of blanks and
terms therein relating to the Bonds as shall be approved by two or more of the Authorized Officers. The
Indenture shall be executed by two Authorized Officers, and the execution of the Indenture by such
Authorized Officers shall be conclusive evidence of their approval.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds; Authorization of Purchase Contract. The Treasurer is hereby
authorized and directed to deliver the Bonds to Cabrera Capital Markets, LLC, as senior managing
underwriter and as representative of the underwriters (collectively, the “Underwriters”) identified in the
Purchase Contract. Authority is hereby delegated to any one of the Authorized Officers, with the
concurrence of a second Authorized Officer, (i) to sell all, but not less than all, of the Bonds to the
Underwriters at an aggregate purchase price of not less than par, net of underwriters’ fees, plus accrued
interest on the Bonds (if any) from their dated date to their date of delivery and (ii) to determine all of
the terms and details of the Bonds not determined in this Resolution including, without limitation,
whether to procure credit enhancement for the Bonds.
The Authorized Officers and the Secretary are authorized and directed to deliver the Purchase
Contract in the name of and on behalf of the Authority. The Purchase Contract shall be executed by two
Authorized Officers and shall be substantially in the form of purchase agreements commonly used by the
Authority or other issuers of municipal bonds in transactions similar to that described in this Resolution,
with such changes as necessary to reflect the terms and provisions of the Bonds and the Indenture, and to
reflect such other changes as an Authorized Officer, with the concurrence of a second Authorized
Officer, shall determine are necessary or desirable in connection with the sale of the Bonds. The
execution of the Purchase Contract by two Authorized Officers shall be conclusive evidence of their
approval. No person holding any office of the Authority, either by election or appointment, shall be in
any manner financially interested directly in his own name or indirectly in the name of any other person,
association, trust or corporation, in the transaction described in the Purchase Contract.
Section 5.
Authorization of Preliminary and Final Official Statements. A preliminary
official statement and a final official statement are each hereby authorized to be prepared and distributed
in connection with the sale of the Bonds in such form as shall be approved and executed by two or more
Authorized Officers. The execution of the final official statement by two Authorized Officers shall be
conclusive evidence of their approval.
Section 6.
Tax Covenants; Authorization of Tax Certificate; Noncompliance with Tax
Covenants. The proceeds of Tax-Exempt Bonds shall not be used in a manner, and the Authority shall
not take, permit to be taken, or fail to take any action, which would cause any Tax-Exempt Bond to be
an “arbitrage bond” within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code, or which would adversely affect the
exclusion from gross income of the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds under Section 103 of the Code
and applicable regulations, rulings, and decisions. The Tax Certificate shall be executed by two
Authorized Officers and shall be in the form of non-arbitrage certifications commonly used by the
Authority or other issuers of municipal bonds in transactions similar to that described in this Resolution
and acceptable to Bond Counsel (as defined in the Indenture) and two or more Authorized Officers,
setting forth such covenants and certifications as shall be necessary to ensure the excludability of interest
on the Tax-Exempt Bonds from gross income for federal tax purposes.
Section 7.
Reimbursement Declaration. For purposes of and in accordance with Treasury
Regulation Section 1.150-2, the Authority hereby declares its intent to apply proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds, if issued, to reimburse itself for certain Expenditures incurred not earlier than 60 days
prior to the date of this Resolution.
5

 Section 8.
Authorization of Continuing Disclosure Undertaking. Each Authorized Officer
and the Secretary are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to deliver an undertaking under
Section (b)(5) of Rule 15c2-12 adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Continuing Disclosure Undertaking”). The
Continuing Disclosure Undertaking shall be executed by two Authorized Officers, and when executed
and delivered on behalf of the Authority as herein provided, the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking will
be binding on the Authority and the officers, employees and agents of the Authority, and the officers,
employees and agents of the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such
acts and things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking as executed.
Section 9.
Execution and Filing. The Bonds shall be signed by the Chairperson and
Secretary, and shall be countersigned by the Treasurer, and the seal of the Authority shall be affixed
thereto or printed thereon, and in case any officer whose signature shall appear on any Bond shall cease
to be such officer before the delivery of such Bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and
sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until delivery. Final forms
and execution versions of any and all documents related to the Bonds, including, without limitation, the
Indenture, the Purchase Contract, the preliminary official statement, the final official statement, the Tax
Certificate and the Continuing Disclosure Undertaking, shall be placed on file with the Secretary.
Section 10.
Delegation of Authority. This Resolution is adopted and the actions herein are
authorized in contemplation of compliance by the Authority with all applicable rules, policies, programs
and regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”). Each of
the Authorized Officers is hereby delegated authority to take any and all further actions and to obtain
and/or execute and deliver such further contracts, documents, papers and certificates as shall be
necessary for the Authority to comply with such rules, policies, programs and regulations of HUD;
provided that the authority delegated to each Authorized Officer pursuant to this paragraph shall not be
effective absent the concurrence of a second Authorized Officer.
From and after the effective date of this Resolution, the Authorized Officers are further delegated
authority to enter into new contracts, and/or amend or extend existing contracts (without further Board
action) as they deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes set forth in this Resolution. The
Authorized Officers are further delegated authority to do all things necessary and essential to effectuate
the provisions of any such contract, including the execution of the Indenture, the Purchase Contract, the
Continuing Disclosure Undertaking and any other contracts, documents, papers and certificates
incidental thereto or necessary to carry out the provisions hereof and thereof, including the Tax
Certificate and the hiring or further retention of professionals and experts. The authority delegated to
each Authorized Officer pursuant to this paragraph shall not be effective absent the concurrence of a
second Authorized Officer. The execution of such other contracts, documents, papers and certificates by
two Authorized Officers shall be conclusive evidence of their approval.
Section 11.
Severability. If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Resolution shall
be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution.
Section 12.
Repeal. All ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith be and the
same are hereby repealed, and this Resolution shall be in full force and effect forthwith upon its adoption.
(Item 3)
The resolution for item 3 approves the revised CHA Debarment Policy and Procedures. The current
policy was adopted in 1994. The revised Debarment Policy and Procedures will update CHA’s
procedures to better align with the current state of best practices in the administration and enforcement
6

 of debarment and suspension activities. The revisions and updates to the Debarment Policy and
Procedures reflect two additional goals: (a) streamlining various administrative elements of the Policy to
provide the CHA with greater flexibility in managing and administering the formal debarment process;
and (b) aligning elements of CHA’s procurement and debarment practices with those of Chicago’s Sister
Agencies to leverage greater communication, transparency and management of debarment activities
across Sister Agencies and support the integrity of their respective procurement processes and practices.
The revisions also incorporate recommendations from the Mayor’s Procurement Reform Task Force,
which was comprised of the various local Sister Agencies. The CHA and Chicago Sister Agencies will
exchange information regarding their debarment activities.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ADOPT THE
REVISED CHA DEBARMENT POLICY AND PROCEDURES” and concurs in the
recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority Debarment
Policy and Procedures, effective as of June 19, 2018, which shall replace the previously
effective Debarment Policy and Procedures, substantially in the form of Attachment A.

(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves the policy that establishes the requirements for compliance with the
Illinois Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of Social
Security Numbers collected, maintained and used by the CHA. The goal of the Act’s requirements that
limit the collection, access and use of Social Security Numbers is to protect against the threat of identity
theft. CHA staff will receive an update and training on the new Social Security Number Protection
Policy at a subsequent CHA-wide training session.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-42
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018, entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ADOPT SOCIAL
SECURITY NUMBER PROTECTION POLICY” and concurs in the recommendation
contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the Chicago Housing Authority Social Security
Number Protection Policy in the form attached.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves the extension for Contract No. 11770 with Pugh, Jones and Johnson,
P.C. for services as the CHA Ethics Officer and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Officer. The
contract extension will be for a one-year period, effective from July 1, 2018, through June 30, 2019.
7

 Services performed under the extension to Contract No. 11770 shall be subject to the annual
appropriated budget for the Office of the Chief Legal Officer applicable to all aggregated Legal Services
Agreements. The CHA’s Ethics Policy establishes the position of Ethics Officer to be appointed by the
CHA’s Board of Commissioners, with preference given to an independent contractor outside of the
CHA. The vendor’s performance has been satisfactory during the term of the agreement.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-43
The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Recommendation to Extend the Contract with Pugh,
Jones and Johnson, P.C. for Ethics Officer and EEO Officer Services.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into an amendment to Contract No. 11770 with Pugh, Jones and Johnson, P.C.
extending the contract from July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019, to continue the vendor’s
performance of Ethics Officer and Equal Employment Opportunity Officer services to the
CHA. Services performed under the amendment to Contract No. 11770 shall be subject to
the annual appropriated budget for the Office of the Chief Legal Officer applicable to all
aggregated Legal Services Agreements.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s applicable
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 through 5 was seconded by Commissioner Chico and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members
were present as well: Commissioners Harris and Markowski. Although Chairman Hooker and
Commissioners Chico, Harte and Matos were also present they were not counted toward the quorum.
Committee members then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the seven items appearing on
the agenda.
8

 On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 6 through 12.
(Item 6)
The Resolution for Item 6 approves an agreement with Constellation New Energy – Electricity Division
for the supply of electricity. The State of Illinois’ electricity supply contract was competitively bid and
includes the ability to lock in wholesale rates instead of retail, and enables the CHA to hedge against
potential market price fluctuations through use of multi-tiered price/risk management options. The CHA
has utilized this type of contract since Illinois deregulated the energy market, and has consistently locked
in rates for electricity which are lower than the local market rate for operational savings. This contract is
for electricity supply only, the CHA will continue to maintain accounts and pay delivery charges to
ComEd, which is the only option for electricity delivery in Chicago. Participating in this contract will
also provide the CHA access experienced energy market analysts and trading professionals to track
electricity supply market trends and to forecast pricing fluctuation.
Chairman Hooker abstained from voting on Item No. 6.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 9, 2018 – entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE STATE OF ILLINOIS AGREEMENT WITH CONSTELLATION NEW ENERGY
SERVICES – ELECTRICITY DIVISION, LLC FOR THE SUPPLY OF
ELECTRICITY”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a contract with Constellation New Energy, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $
4,578,035 over the term of the contract, August 1st, 2018 until December 31, 2019. Any
future renewal terms approved by the State of Illinois up to a total of 3 years with an
annual amount not to exceed $ 3,231,554.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item No. 7 approves contract modifications with Koo, LLC totaling $169,775.00 to
compensate the Architect-of-Record for additional design services necessitated by the enhancements,
plus construction administration and oversight services associated with the desired phasing of the
Nathaniel Pope Elementary School. Upon authorization of this contract modification, the revised total
contract value for the Architect-of-Record will be an amount not to exceed $1,176,995.00. The former
Nathaniel Pope Elementary School is a decommissioned Chicago Public School building located in
Chicago’s North Lawndale neighborhood at 1852 S. Albany Avenue and is adjacent to Douglas Park.
The CHA purchased the building from the Chicago Board of Education and the Public Building
Commission. The CHA awarded a contract to Koo, LLC in September 2016 for the professional design
services to convert and renovate the former elementary school into a mixed-use building which will
contain office space, residential units and community space. The project has now undergone changes to
increase the number of residential units constructed, which is in furtherance of the CHA’s mission and
9

 goal to provide more housing, and also to enhance the community/theater space for the benefit of the
surrounding community. The renovated building will provide not fewer than 19 residential units from
the original 14 units, new office space for the Housing Choice Voucher Program’s west satellite office
and a renovated two-story 700 seat auditorium/theater for internal use and external community use.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-45
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Authorization to Execute a Contract
Modifications to Contract 12034 Professional Design Services for the Conversion
and Renovation of 1852 S. Albany”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute a contract modification to C-12034 with Koo, LLC for professional design
services for the conversion and renovation of 1852 S. Albany for a total amount notto-exceed amount of $169,775.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 8)
The CHA issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB) in April 2018 to solicit general contractors to complete
construction work for the Conversion and Renovation of the former Pope School property located at
1852 S. Albany. CHA solicited 18 vendors, 31 assist agencies and 388 Section 3 businesses and
Procurement Infor Rich Client Administration Commodity Codes for Construction. Of the three 3
responsive bids received, A.L.L. Masonry Construction Company, Inc. submitted the lowest lump sum
bid. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 8 approves award of contract to A.L.L. Masonry Construction
Company for the Conversion and Renovation of 1852 S. Albany for a total not-to-exceed amount of
$14,643,292.00. The former Nathaniel Pope Elementary School is a decommissioned Chicago Public
School building located in Chicago’s North Lawndale neighborhood at 1852 S. Albany. This contract
award is for construction work pertaining to the conversion and renovation of the First and Second
Floors of the building. The General Contractor will renovate and reconfigure the Administrative Office
areas on the First and Second floors and complete building envelope restoration and exterior/site work.
This work will include exterior and interior architectural renovations, renovation and conversion of
classrooms into office spaces, new elevators, new built-in casework, architectural woodwork restoration,
new mechanical, electrical, lighting, plumbing, and sprinkler systems, exterior stone and brick
repairs/restoration, window replacement, roof repairs, and new site grading, formal garden, and parking
lot. The third-floor residential portion and the auditorium/theater space will be left as a 'white box' for
renovation in the near future under a separate contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Recommendation to Award a Contract for the
Conversion and Renovation of 1852 S. Albany”.
10

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a contract with A.L.L. Masonry Construction Company, Inc. for the
Conversion and Renovation of 1852 S. Albany in the firm fixed price of $13,814,426.00
plus a not-to-exceed amount of $828,866.00 in contingency (6%, which is in line with
industry standards) strictly limited to potential change orders justified as discovered
conditions or code compliance issues for a total not-to-exceed amount of $14,643,292.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Item 9)
CHA released a Request for Qualification (RFQ) for Mixed-Finance Pre-Qualification for Development
Teams in March 2018. CHA solicited 1,086 vendors through advertisements posted in area newspapers,
and posted on the CHA Web-site and in the Procurement Infor Rich Client Administration. A total of
five responses were received. Proposals were evaluated and scored based on the evaluation criteria.
Four firms met or exceeded the acceptable minimum threshold established by the Contracting Officer.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item 9 approves the following four teams for mixed-income and mixeduse developments: Three Corners Development; McLaurin Development Partners LLC; MVAH Partners
LLC; The Michaels Development Company – DL3 Realty. The RFQ provides a method to pre-qualify
developers and creates opportunities for CHA to provide capital loans and operating funds for new
construction and rehabilitation of multi-family, mixed-income and mixed-use projects that directly
benefit CHA residents. The selected respondents will be issued a “Letter of Qualification” and have two
years from the date of that letter to submit proposals to CHA. CHA may provide financial investment or
enter-into-long term leases for the units, subject to Board, HUD and other approvals, if necessary.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled
“Recommendation to approve Four (4) development teams for mixed-income housing
and mixed-use development delivery through the Pre-Qualified Development Team
approach.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve the following four (4) Development Teams for mixed-income housing and mixeduse development delivery through the Pre-Qualified Development Team (PDT) approach:
The following teams are recommended to be approved for mixed-income and mixed-use
developments:
• Three Corners Development
• McLaurin Development Partners LLC
• MVAH Partners LLC
• The Michaels Development Company – DL3 Realty
11

 (Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 approves funding in an amount not to exceed $7,000,000 in CHA funds to the
Chicago Park District to construct a new recreational center at East 15th and South Loomis Avenue; and
also approves agreement with the Chicago Park District or a related entity and perform such actions as
may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. The Chicago Park District will construct a
100,000 SF recreational center. The multi-purpose facility is designed to provide year-round
programming for the region. The building will include a multi-purpose artificial turf field, a practice
track, multi-purpose hard court space, community room, and associated support functions. Outdoor
facilities will include an artificial combination field for baseball, football, lacrosse, and soccer. The cost
of the Addams Recreation Center construction project stands at $20 million. Contributions for this
project will be given by The City of Chicago, The Chicago Park District, The Chicago Housing
Authority, The Inner City Education, and Recreation Foundation, Exelon. The center is expected to be
completed by late 2019 or early 2020.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Authorization to 1) Fund an amount not to exceed
$7,000,000 in CHA funds to the Chicago Park District to construct a new recreational
center at East 15th and South Loomis Avenue; and 2) Execute an agreement with the
Chicago Park District or a related entity and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to 1)
Fund an amount not to exceed $7,000,000 in CHA funds to the Chicago Park District to
construct a new recreational center at East 15th and South Loomis Avenue; and 2)
Execute an agreement with the Chicago Park District or a related entity and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing”.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 authorizes the formation of an Owner entity, with related documents needed
for the formation of said entities and authorizes various significant actions which will be taken. Such
actions include the execution and delivery of various financing, acquisition, and other development
and/or management documents. This property is part of the CHA’s wider portfolio of properties to be
converted to RAD. Patrick Sullivan Apartments is a 22-story designated senior housing building located
at 1633 W. Madison. The building, which contains 480 units, was built in 1963 and is located on an
approximately 3.6-acre site.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority proposes to finance Patrick Sullivan Apartments
consisting of 480 rental units in Chicago, Illinois; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Recommendation to (1) Form Patrick Sullivan
Housing LLC, and to close the transaction for the refinancing of Patrick Sullivan
12

 Apartments and the reimbursement to the Chicago Housing Authority of costs related
thereto; (2) Secure permanent financing in an amount not to exceed $32 Million; (3)
Transfer the Patrick Sullivan Apartments property to Patrick Sullivan Housing LLC,
ground lease the underlying property and finance the sale through seller financing to
Patrick Sullivan Housing LLC; (4) Execute a Rental Assistance Demonstration Housing
Assistance Payment contract with Patrick Sullivan Housing LLC; and (5) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as many be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, is authorized to: (1) Form Patrick Sullivan
Housing LLC, and to close the transaction for the refinancing of Patrick Sullivan
Apartments and the reimbursement to the Chicago Housing Authority of costs related
thereto; (2) Secure permanent financing in an amount not to exceed $32 Million; (3)
Transfer the Patrick Sullivan Apartments property to Patrick Sullivan Housing LLC,
ground lease the underlying property and finance the sale through seller financing to
Patrick Sullivan Housing LLC; (4) Execute a
Rental Assistance Demonstration
Housing Assistance Payment contract with Patrick Sullivan Housing LLC; and (5)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as many be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is not subject to compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/Section 3 hiring
and insurance requirements.

(Item 12)
The resolution for Item 12 authorizes the CEO to submit a Disposition Application to HUD for the
disposition of CHA land and to execute a ground lease with SOS Children’s Villages (SOS) for real
estate commonly known as 1301 S. Racine Avenue. In 2013, CHA disposed of seven parcels of CHA
land to SOS for the construction of their 72-unit foster home facility located on the 1400 block of
Washtenaw in Roosevelt Square. At the time, the site was valued at $1,500,000. SOS agreed to a threeyear community benefit program valued at $684,559 annually. In 2016, SOS requested 39,000 SF of
vacant land located at 1301 S. Racine for the construction of a new community and administrative
facility. The community center would provide programming for youth located at their foster home
facility, programming for the greater community, and administrative offices for SOS staff. A January
2017 appraisal completed by PF Appraisals valued the Racine property at $1,900,000. An update
completed by PF Appraisals in May 2018 valued the land at $2,070,000. SOS has committed to a new
community benefits program valued at $3,400,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Authorization to 1) Submit a Disposition Application
to HUD for the disposition of CHA land 2) Execute a ground lease with SOS Children’s
Villages for real estate commonly known as 1301 S. Racine Avenue and 3) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such activities as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing”.
13

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to 1)
Submit a Disposition Application to HUD for the disposition of CHA land 2) Execute a
ground lease with SOS Children’s Villages for real estate commonly known as 1301 S.
Racine Avenue and 3) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
activities as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 6 through 12 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker (abstained from voting on item #6 only)
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Chairman Hooker then announced the resignation of Commissioner Jack Markowski. Per Chairman
Hooker, Commissioner Markowski submitted his resignation to the Mayor and the Board which they
reluctantly accepted.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following Public Participation and upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly
seconded by Commissioner Harte, the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately 30 minutes to discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
Following Closed Session, Commissioners reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
14

 John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Absent:

Francine Washington

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by Commissioner Brewer, the open and
closed minutes for meetings of May 15, 2018 were approved as submitted.
The Chairman then announced that during Closed Session Commissioners discussed Items 13 through
15. A Motion to approve Items No. 13 through 15 was presented by Commissioner Brewer and properly
seconded by Commissioner Chico.
(Item 13)
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 19, 2018, entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO SETTLE THE MATTER OF”: Mary Haywood, Martha Lewis,
Annie Stubenfield, A.D. Lindsey, Essie McAllister and Sandra Walton (“Class
Representatives” or “Plaintiffs”) vs. Chicago Housing Authority, an Illinois Municipal
Corporation, Case No. 1:15-CV-8317 requesting authorization to enter into a class
settlement agreement in the amount of $6,675,000 in the matter Mary Haywood, Martha
Lewis, Annie Stubenfield, A.D. Lindsey, Essie McAllister and Sandra Walton (“Class
Representatives” or “Plaintiffs”) vs. Chicago Housing Authority, an Illinois Municipal
Corporation, Case No. 1:15-CV-8317.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Legal Officer, to enter into a class
settlement agreement in the amount of $6,675,000 in the matter of Mary Haywood,
Martha Lewis, Annie Stubenfield, A.D. Lindsey, Essie McAllister and Sandra Walton
(“Class Representatives” or “Plaintiffs”) vs. Chicago Housing Authority, an Illinois
Municipal Corporation, Case No. 1:15-CV-8317; and

THAT

the Chief Legal Officer and the Chief Executive Officer are further authorized to
negotiate, enter into and execute any and all further agreements or orders to effectuate the
purposes approved in this Resolution.

(Item 14)
RESOLUTION NO. 2017-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated June 19, 2018 entitled “Recommendation to 1) Acquire four 6-unit
residential buildings at 2603-2617 North Harlem Avenue for public housing; 2) Negotiate
and execute acquisition and related financing documents; 3) Submit a Final Site Approval
15

 Application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development; and 4)
Perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to 1)
Acquire four 6-unit residential buildings at 2603-2617 North Harlem Avenue for public
housing; 2) Negotiate and execute acquisition and related financing documents; 3) Submit
a Final Site Approval Application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; and 4) Perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing, subject to HUD approval.

(Item 15)
The resolution for Item 15 ratifies the following personnel actions for positions below Grade 74: offer
of employment to five applicants and promotion of 6 current employees.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018–CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 19, 2018, entitled
“Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 13 through 15 was seconded by Commissioner Chico and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Meghan Harte
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Cristina Matos
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by
Commissioner Harris and seconded by Commissioner Chico, the board meeting of June 19, 2018 was
adjourned.
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records
16

 