MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 15, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
April 15, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at Cabrini, Sojourner Truth School, 1409-43 North Ogden in
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
over the course of the Plan For Transformation, the CHA has been committed in protecting the
rights of all lease compliant residents. However, at the same time, CHA has recognized that
there are individuals living in CHA buildings as non- leaseholders and CHA is committed in
finding these families shelter. Mr. Peterson encouraged the Board to approve the item, slated to
come before them, with regards to allocating Federal funds to relocate non- leaseholders living in
CHA units scheduled for demolition. Mr. Peterson continued by informing the Board that if
approved, approximately $2 million will be placed in a fund for transitional housing to serve
these families. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by encouraging parents, residents and
community leaders to begin planning for the summer by enrolling their children in camps,
educational programs and other supervised activities.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Special Meeting held on February 26 and
the Regular Board Meeting held on March 18, 2003. Upon Motion made and properly seconded,
the Minutes were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.

1

 An Omnibus Motion to approve the Resolutions for Items 1 and 2 discussed in Executive
Session was then presented by Commissioner Gates.
(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-42
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has revie wed the
memorandum dated March 17, 2003, entitled “Approval of Reimbursement
Arrangement between the City of Chicago and the CHA”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorize the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to reimburse the City of Chicago for
salary and benefits paid to the CHA’s Chief Executive Officer for the period
January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2003.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 1, 2003, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Action Report for March 2003.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for March
2003.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Item 1 and 2 was seconded
by Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, April 9 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves Amendment No. 3 to the Moving To Work (MTW)
Agreement which provides for a one time only waiver with respect to the calculation of
administrative fund reserves to provide funding for transitional housing for non- leaseholders
currently residing in CHA buildings. This will assist the CHA in its efforts to relocate nonleaseholders currently occupying units slated for demolition. This initiative has been discussed
with, and received the support of the Resident Leadership.

WHEREAS ,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-44
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the board letter dated April 4, 2003,
titled “Approval and Ratification of Execution of Moving To Work Amendment
No. 3”;

2

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Amendment No. 3 to
the Memorandum of Approval, Resident Protection Agreement, Moving to Work
Agreement dated February 6, 2000, between the Chicago Housing Authority and
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and ratifies the Chief
Executive Officer’s execution thereof.

(Item A2)
Under Amendment No. 3 to the Moving To Work Agreement, HUD has approved the use of
CHA funding to relocate non- leaseholders currently occupying units slated for demolition. The
resolution for Item A2 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of
Chicago and provides $2 million for transitional housing for non- leaseholders of CHA buildings
to be consolidated, closed or demolished in FY2003.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-45
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated April 15, 2003,
entitled “Recommendation that the Chicago Housing Authority enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago and provide funding for
transitional housing for non-leaseholders currently residing in buildings to be
demolished.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority hereby enters into the Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Chicago and provide $2 million in funding for
transitional housing for both non-leaseholders of CHA buildings to be demolished
in FY2003.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Earnest Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then
presented his monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facilities Committee
held its regular meeting on Wednesday, April 9 at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. The
scheduled presentation on Internal Supports was deferred to the May Operations Committee
Meeting.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B10 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
& Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
In February 2003, the Authority issued an Invitation For Bid (IFB) to solicit proposals for
necessary facade repairs at Britton Budd Apartments. CHA directly solicited 31 firms, including
16 M/WBE firms. After a review of the six bids received, the evaluating committee determined
Ramirez Construction to be the lowest responsive and responsible bidder with a total lump sum
bid in the amount of $1,177,700. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves award of
contract to Ramirez Construction.

3

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 25, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to execute contract with Ramirez Construction Company
for facade repairs at Britton Budd Apartments, IL2-48 – IFB No. 01173”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a fixed price contract with Ramirez Construction Company
for facade repairs at Britton Budd Apartments, 501 W. Surf, in the amount of
$1,177,700.
The term of the contract will be for a period of 200 days from the date of a Notice
to Proceed.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves an Option to Lease Real Estate Agreement with the
Oakwood Boulevard Associates for the Madden Park/Darrow Homes Phase IB site. The purpose
of the Lease Option is to memorialize the Authority’s commitment to negotiate and execute a
long term ground lease to demonstrate site control and thereby permit the development team of
Oakwood Boulevard Associates to apply for low income housing tax credits to finance a portion
of the development of this site. The CHA’s Lease Option will support Phase 1B of a mixedincome development on this site of approximately 163 rental units. There will be approximately
63 public housing units, 52 affordable and 48 market rate rental units.
Commissioner Young abstained from voting on Item B2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 20, 2003,
requesting authorization of the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute
and issue an Option to Lease Real Estate to Oakwood Boulevard Associates for
the development of the Madden Park/Ida B. Wells/Darrow Homes Phase IB site,
and to memorialize the CHA’s commitment to negotiate and execute a long term
ground lease for the development of Madden/Wells Darrow Phase IB site in favor
of yet-to-be-formed Madden Wells Phase 1B Limited Partnership, of which the
managing general partner will the yet-to-be-formed Madden Wells Phase 1B
Associates LLC, an affiliate of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC, and
concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute and issue an Option to Lease Real Estate Agreement, and
extend such agreement up to 8 months as required, if necessary, and to
memorialize the CHA’s commitment to negotiate and execute a long term ground
lease for the development of Madden/Wells Darrow Phase I site in favor of the
yet-to-be-formed Madden Wells Phase 1B Limited Partnership, of which the
managing general partner will be the yet-to-be-formed Madden Wells Phase 1B
Associates LLC, an affiliate of Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC, in
exchange for $1. The Lease Option shall expire December 31, 2003, and may be
terminated if 1) a tax credit application is not submitted to the Illinois Housing
Development Authority (IHDA) by April 21, 2003 by either Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, LLC (“OBA”), or an affiliate of OBA; or 2) an allocation of 2003
Low Income Housing Tax Credits is not awarded to this project; or 3) Rental
Development Agreement and Ground Lease negotiations are not successfully
completed by August 31, 2004

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the option term for a period of up to August 31, 2004 to
facilitate the redevelopment if deemed necessary.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to take all actions necessary to support the tax credit application of the
4

 Oakwood Boulevard Associates, LLC or its affiliate on the
Madden/Wells/Darrow Phase IB site in accordance with the Phase I plan
approved by the Madden/Wells Working Group.
(Item B3)
By Resolution 2002-CHA-144, the CHA approved execution of the Redevelopment Agreement
with East Lake Management & Deve lopment Corporation. To implement the development, East
Lake has created East Lake/West End, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company and an
affiliated entity. Both East Lake, as sponsor and guarantor of completion of the redevelopment,
and East Lake/West End, LLC, as the development entity, will sign the development agreement.
The purpose of the Lease Option is to memorialize the CHA’s commitment to negotiate and
execute a long term ground lease to demonstrate site control and thereby permit the development
team to apply for low- income housing tax credits to finance the completion of Phase IB of the
development at the Rockwell Gardens site. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 amends
Resolution No. 2002-CHA-144 to reflect East Lake and East Lake/West End, LLC as
signatories, and approves execution of a Lease Option with East Lake/West End, LLC.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 19,
2003, requesting authorization to execute and issue an Option to Lease Real
Estate agreement and related actions for the development of the Rockwell
Gardens Phase IB site to East Lake/West End, LLC and to amend Resolution No.
2002-CHA-144 and concurs with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an Option to Lease Real Estate to East Lake/West End, LLC,
for the development of Phase IB of the Rockwell Gardens redevelopment, in
exchange for $1. The Option Agreement shall expire December 31, 2003, and
may be terminated prior to that date if the tax credit application is not submitted
by April 21, 2003 or if the application does not receive an award of 2003 tax
credits.

THAT

The Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to extend the option
term for a period of up to August 31, 2004 to facilitate the redevelopment if
deemed necessary.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to take all actions necessary to support the tax credit application of East
Lake/West End, LLC in accordance with the Revitalization Plan.

THAT,

Resolution No. 2002-CHA-144 is hereby amended to authorize execution of a
Redevelopment Agreement in substantially the form presented to the Board with
East Lake Management & Development Corporation, as sponsor, and East
Lake/West End, LLC. The Chief Executive Officer or his designee is autho rized
to approve any final changes to said Agreements.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves an Option to Lease Real Estate Agreement with ABLA
Rental LLC for the development of the ABLA Homes Phase I Site.
The purpose of the Lease
Option is to memorialize the Authority’s commitment to negotiate and execute a long term
ground lease to demonstrate site control and thereby permit the development team of ABLA
Rental LLC to apply for low income housing tax credits to finance a portion of the development
of this site. The CHA’s Lease Option will support a mixed-income rental development on this
site of approximately 185 units including approximately 129 public housing units and 56
affordable units. Interspersed throughout this site will be an additional 229 homeownership units
(65 affordable and 164 market rate) which will be subject to a separate real estate transaction to
be considered by the CHA Board at a future date.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 15, 2003,
requesting authorization of the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute
and issue an Option to Lease Real Estate Agreement and to negotiate and execute
5

 a long term ground lease for the development of the ABLA Homes Phase I site
with ABLA Rental LLC., a joint venture of LR Development Company LLC and
Century Place Development Corporation, of which the managing general partner
is LR Deve lopment Company LLC;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute and issue an Option to Lease Real Estate Agreement and to
negotiate and execute a long term ground lease for the Phase I site with ABLA
Rental LLC., a joint ve nture of LR Development Company LLC and Century
Place Development Corporation, of which the managing general partner is LR
Development Company LLC. The Lease Option for the ABLA Homes Phase I
site will be valid through December 31, 2003 in exchange for $1.00 and is subject
to: 1) ABLA Rental LLC’s submission of a Low Income Housing Tax Credit
application to IHDA or the City of Chicago for Phase I of the ABLA Homes
redevelopment on or before the applicable tax credit application deadlines for
2003; 2) an allocation of 2003 Low Income Housing Tax Credits being awarded
to this project; and 3) the execution of a Master Development Agreement for the
ABLA redeve lopment by LR Development Company LLC. If necessary, the
Lease Option may be extended until August 31, 2004. The Lease Option shall
also contain a provision that allows the CHA’s commitment to terminate if any of
the foregoing contingencies are not met by ABLA Rental LLC.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to take all actions necessary to support the tax credit application of the
ABLA Rental LLC on the ABLA Phase 1 site in accordance with the plan
approved by the CHA Board of Commissioners and the ABLA Working Group.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves a Housing Assistance Payment Contract with Evergreen
Towers II LP to provide Project-based Voucher assistance for 10 units in the Evergreen Towers
II senior housing development. Evergreen Towers II is a 101-unit mixed income senior housing
development project located at 1343 N. Cleveland, adjacent to the Cabrini Green Development.
The development contains 85 affordable units and 16 market-rate units and one ground floor
commercial space. Evergreen Towers II will serve as a relocation site for CHA senior residents,
particularly those from family developments.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 15, 2003,
requesting authorization to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP)
Contract with Evergreen Tower II LP to provide 10 Project-based Hous ing
Choice Vouchers to the Evergreen Towers II, a mixed-income senior housing
development:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract with
Evergreen Towers II LP or its nominee to provide Project-based Voucher
assistance for 10 units in Evergreen Towers II, a mixed-income senior housing
development for the maximum allowable term, sub ject to any necessary HUD
approvals.

THAT,

The Chief Executive Officer is further authorized to take all action necessary to
implement the foregoing.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves the form of lease for the public housing units at St.
Edmund’s Meadows, a mixed- finance redevelopment, and amends the CHA Admissions and
Occupancy Policy to add the final form of said lease as an addendum thereto. It is understood
that the owner entity, St. Edmund’s Meadows Limited Partnership, has an interest and desire to
implement its own lease form that encourage consistent community standards and for the
effective management of its mixed income developments. The lease has to accommodate
6

 various aspects of the multiple types of tenants and characteristics of a mixed- finance
transaction.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 15, 2003,
entitled: “Authorization for approval of a form of Lease for the public housing
units at St. Edmund’s Meadows mixed-finance redevelopment and to amend the
CHA Admissions and Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an
addendum thereto”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of Lease for the
public housing units at St. Edmund’s Meadows development and hereby approves
an amendment to the Chicago Housing Authority’s Admissions and Occupancy
Policy to incorporate the approved forms as an addendum. The Chairman of the
Board or the Chief Executive Officer is hereby authorized to approve final
changes in these forms, including changes based on HUD requirements. Such
approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of any and
all such changes.

(Item B7)
The Authority approved an Intergovernmental Agreement in February 2002, between the CHA
and participating housing agencies to establish the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI). The goal
of the RHI program is to promote attractive mixed income housing deve lopments that meet
community and regional needs, with particular focus on locations near jobs and public
transportation. The resolution for Item B7 approves the recommendation of the RHI to allocate
five project-based vouchers to Casa Kirk Apartments and fourteen project based vouchers to
Leland Apartments. Casa Kirk Apartments is a 26-unit multifamily apartment building located
in South Chicago on the city’s southeast side. The development is accessible to the new Calumet
industrial corridor which includes many manufacturing facilities and the new Ford
Manufacturing Campus. Leland Apartment is located on the city’s Uptown neighborhood at the
intersection of Le land and Racine. The Uptown location of this property affords its optimum
transportation advantages and is in the vicinity of major food retailers and financial institutions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated April 15, 2003,
entitled “Recommendation that the Chicago Housing Authority approve the
recommendation of the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) to allocate housing
choice vouchers to Casa Kirk Apartments and Leland Apartments in accordance
with the RHI program and authorization to take all actions and execute all
documents with respect thereto”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority hereby approves the recommendation of the
Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) to allocate five project-based vouchers to Casa
Kirk Apartments and 14 project-based vouchers to Leland Apartments in
accordance with the RHI program, subject to any required HUD waivers or
exceptions, and authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to take all
actions and execute all documents with respect thereto.

(Item B8)
In February 2003, the CHA issued a Request For Proposal (RFP) to solicit qualified firms to
provide Managing Owner’s Representative services. The CHA also directly solicited forty-three
firms, including nineteen MBE/WBE firms. Of the thirteen proposals submitted, six firms were
determined to be in the competitive range. These six firms were requested to make oral
presentations, have discussions, and submit best and final offers. Based on the evaluation
committee’s recommendation, McK issack & McKissack Midwest, Inc. presented the best and
most responsive and responsible proposal that meets the CHA needs. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B8 approves award of contract to McKissack & McKissack.

7

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 2, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter into an agreement with McKissack
& McK issack Midwest, Inc. as Managing Owner’s Representative, RFP #01174,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with McKissack & McKissack
Midwest, Inc. to serve as the Chicago Housing Authority’s (“CHA”) Managing
Owner’s Representative for construction management services for capital
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance activities associated with the
Chicago Housing Authority’s Capital Improvement Program for a fixed fee
amount of $1,991,839 for a two year base period, with a one (1) year option.

(Item B9)
The Authority’s current electric supply with ComEd expires April 30, 2003. Due to the initiation
of retail electric competition in Illinois, ComEd is no longer entering into special electric supply
contracts with customers, therefore, the CHA needs to evaluate the standard electric supply
options available. The process to evaluate the CHA’s available electric power procurement
options, negotiate and finalize a beneficial long-term electric supply contract is anticipated to
take up to three months, due to the complexity of the CHA’s electric power accounts and market
considerations. The resolution for Item B9, therefore, approves an interim electric supply
contract with ComEd for a term of up to three months and a total amount not-to-exceed
$1,700,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-54
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated March 27, 2003, entitled “Authorization to enter into an
interim electric supply contract with Commonwealth Edison”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an interim electric supply contract with Commonwealth
Edison for electric power at various CHA properties for a term of up to three (3)
months and a total amount not-to-exceed $1,700,000.00.

(Item B10)
In accordance with HUD policies, the Authority is requiring all private management companies
to pay local prevailing wages, including pension, health and welfare contributions, to their
janitorial/maintenance staff. The current operating budgets of the private management
companies do not provide for these prevailing wages and benefits. Therefore, the CHA must
provide additional funding to the private management companies to cover costs associated with
these wages and benefits. The resolution for Item B10 approves amendment of the Private
Property Management Agreements to specify that private management companies are required to
pay prevailing wage rates and benefits and also approves additional funding for this amendment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 2, 2003,
requesting approval to amend the Private Property Management Agreements to
require payment of local prevailing wages and benefits for janitorial/maintenance
staff, and to approve the expenditure of an amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000 to
cover the cost associated with paying such prevailing wages and benefits;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend the Private Property Management Agreements to require
payment of local prevailing wages and benefits for janitorial/maintenance staff,
and further approves the expenditure of an amount not-to-exceed $1,000,000 to
cover the cost of paying such prevailing wages and benefits.

8

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B10 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young (abstained from voting on item B2 only)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Lori Healey, Interim Chairperson for the Finance & Audit Committee, then
presented the following report. Per Commissioner Healey, the Finance & Audit Committee did
not meet for its regularly scheduled meeting due to a lack of quorum. The scheduled
presentations were deferred to the May Committee Meeting.
Since Commissioners were duly briefed on each item by management staff, Commissioner
Healey introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for Items C1 through
C6.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget. The impact of
this budget revision resulted in the following changes: total revenue and associated expenditures
in the General Fund increased by $29,340,237 due to the rollover of unspent grants from FY2002
and the realignment of the budget based on projected spending in FY2003; total revenue and
associated expenditures in PHDEP funds increased by $108,680 due to rollover of unspent
PHDEP grants from FY2002; total revenue and associated expenditures in HOPE VI funds
decreased by $19,726,683 due to the realignment of the budget based on projected spending in
FY2003 at various CHA properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated March 14, 2003,
entitled “Approval of the Revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“Approval of the revised 2003 Comprehensive Budget”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low- income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

9

 (Item C2)
In managing their properties, the Resident Management Corporations (RMC’s) are responsible
for establishing and maintaining a complete and accurate record of all financial information. To
assist the RMC’s in achieving the ir goals, the Authority solicited proposals from qualified firms
to provide accounting services for the RMC’s. These services will include development of
policies and procedures, including procurement practices, staff and management training,
presentations to the Board of Directors, development and implementation of a standardized
account system. Five responses were received and evaluated by the evaluation committee. The
two firms in the competitive range were invited for oral presentations and a “best and final” offer
was provided by each of these respondents. Based on the recommendation of the evaluation
committee, FPT&W was the lowest, responsible and responsive bidder. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item C2 awards contract to FPT&W.
Commissioner Amey recused from voting on Item C2.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-57
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 2, 2003
entitled "Authorization to Enter into a Contract with FPT&W to Provide
Accounting Services to the Resident Management Corporations.”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a 2 year contract with a one year option with FPT&W to
provide accounting services to the Resident Management Corporations in an
amount not to exceed $903,784 for the two year period April 1, 2003 through
March 31, 2005, subject to Board and HUD approval, if required.

(Item C3)
In December 2002, the Request for Proposal (RFP) was released and advertised in area
newspapers for Investment Advisory Services. The RFP was mailed to 23 prospective
respondents which included 7 M/W/DBE firms. Of the 9 responses received, the evaluation
committee invited the 4 highest ranked respondents for oral presentations. Based upon the
review of the proposals, the information gathered in the presentation and the “best and final”
pricing, it was determined that both Mesirow and Holland Capital would be the best candidates
to provide the requested investment advisory services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C3
approves award of contract to Mesirow and Holland Capital. The fees for each firm will be
based on a percentage of assets under management.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 27,
2003, entitled “Authorization to Enter into Contracts with each of Mesirow
Financial and Holland Capital Management, Inc. for Investment Advisory
Services”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into separate contracts with each of Mesirow Financial and
Holland Capital Management to provide investment advisory services, each for a
two (2) year period for an amount-not-to-exceed $60,000 and $45,000,
respectively (for a total amount for such contracts’ initial terms not to exceed
$105,000), and each with a one (1) year option, subject to Board and (if required)
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) approval.

(Item C4)
IN 1997, the Chicago Empowerment Zone (EZ) committed $1.2 million to the construction of
the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center (FIC). Due to various delays, a grant agreement
was never executed and the committed funds were not disbursed. Therefore, the CHA requested
that the EZ funds be re-designated and applied to the operational costs of the FIC. The
resolution for Item C4 approves acceptance of EZ funds in the amount of $1.2 million and
approves an increase in said amount to the Authority’s Fiscal Year 2003 Comprehensive Budget.

10

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 2, 2003, entitled, “Authorization to accept grant funding
and enter into an Intergovernmental Grant Agreement with the City of Chicago
for the Chicago Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community Program to provide
programs and activities at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center, and
approval of an increase to the Authority’s Fiscal Year 2003 Comprehensive
Budget;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept a $1,200,000 grant award from, and to execute an
intergovernmental grant agreement with the City of Chicago, acting by and
through its Office of Budget and Management for the Empowerment
Zone/Enterprise Community Program to provide programs and activities at the
Charles Hayes Family Investment Center for the operating period of January 1,
2002 to May 30, 2003. The Board also approves an increase to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Fiscal Year 2003 Comprehensive Budget.

(Item C5)
The resolution for Item C5 approves acceptance of a grant award in the amount of $310,000 and
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to enter into a grant agreement with the MacArthur
Foundation. This grant award will support the development of strategic community plans and
provide resident leadership training for LeClaire Courts, Altgeld Gardens and Lathrop Homes.
This grant will assess what resources currently exist in each community; identify what resources
should exist; and provide leadership training for residents focused on ending their historic
isolation and connecting them to other community stakeholders. Planners will be obtained from
the City of Chicago’s Department of Planning and Development Planning NOW program and
Jim Capraro, a private community development consultant.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-60
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 17, 2003,
entitled, “Authorization to accept a grant award and enter into a grant agreement
with the John D. and Catherine T. Macarthur Foundation for strategic community
planning and resident leadership training in Leclaire Courts, Altgeld Gardens and
Lathrop Homes and increase the Fiscal Year 2003 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept a grant award from and enter into a Grant Agreement with the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation (MacArthur) in the amount of
$310,000.00 for strategic community planning and resident leadership training in
LeClaire Courts, Altgeld Gardens, and Lathrop Homes;

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into sub- grantee agreements with the City of Chicago’s
Department of Planning and Development Planning NOW program and Jim
Capraro, a private community development consultant. Sub-grant agreements are
not to exceed the following amounts: Planning NOW—$175,000 and Jim
Capraro—$10,000;

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes that the 2003 CHA budget be revised to
reflect the award of the $310,000.00 MacArthur grant.

(Item C6)
The resolution for Item C6 amends the Chicago Housing Authority Employees’ Retirement Plan
and Trust. This amendment will provide for an annual certification process that confirms
entitlement to benefits for participants receiving benefits under the Plan, and includes a provision
to allow for a suspension of payment of benefits until such time as the participant complies with
the requireme nts of entitlement.

11

 RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-61
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 26, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to Amend the Chicago Housing Authority Employees’
Retirement Plan and Trust”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Amendment Eight of the Chicago Housing Authority
Employees’ Retirement Plan and Trust in the form and as of the effective dates
indicated in the attached Amendment

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C6 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey (recused from voting on item C2 only)
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

12

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 