Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
February 19, 2013
CHA Central Office – 60 E. Van Buren
Name

1

Robert Davidson

2

Theodore Hawkins

3

Ms. Lizzie

4

Velma Lloyd-Tolbert

Question/Comment

Response

Thank you Charles for fixing the Section 3 thing. I hope it works
for them. I am here to ask a question. There was a
consolidation done at Lathrop, about 18 months ago. They said
they were going to redevelop the north side of Lathrop and then
they would shift the residents. Now they are reconsolidating
again. People are in three buildings. We are in three buildings,
and we all disagree with this. What happened to the first
promise that the north side of Lathrop would be redeveloped,
and then the south side would be developed after that?

The proposed consolidation is in direct response to the LAC’s
request for CHA to maintain occupancy at Lathrop so as not to
force an emergency closure of the buildings or site. The
proposed consolidation allows for residents currently spread
out through 12 buildings to remain on site in three buildings
during construction. The CHA feels this is the safest and most
efficient manner to respond to the LAC’s request to remain
onsite during redevelopment. The redevelopment phasing of
Lathrop has not been determined at this time.

I am a resident at Judge Green Apartments. I'm here to make
comments on the good work of the Board and my manager, and
WCDC. Out manager attacks all the problems with diligence.
WCDC is there to hear us, the new Alderman comes to visit us.
WCDC is doing a great job, and CHA is doing a great job, I'm
just happy.
I live at 4930 S. Langley. I am here on behalf of my property
manager, Ms. Williams. She takes care of the building really
well. I have been there six years.
Good morning. I live in Mary Jane Richardson Apartments. I
have been there seven years. Within the last 18 months, I have
been there with Ms. Williams and WCDC and Ms. Harris. I have
seen the improvement they have made in this building. I am
pleased and at peace with the way they have come in and
structured the building. Ms. Williams is always there late in the
day. WCDC always comes to our activities and they are always
present in the building. I just want to say thank you.

Thank you for your comment.

1

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

 5

Shirley Lee

Gwen Leonard
6

7

8

Gordon Grandberry

Melvin Berkley

9
Ms. Hawkins

10

Larry Thorpe

I live at 4930 S. Langley and I am the President. WCDC is
good. Ms. Williams, Ms. Harris, Dr. Finney, they all come to
help us, and they're good. I love Ms. Williams - she is there
from 8 a.m. to sometimes 9 p.m. They are there for us, do not
take WCDC from 4930 S. Langley. We love what they have
done.
Good morning. I have lived at 4930 S. Langley for two years
now. Ms. Williams does her job with dignity and grace. That
comes from knowing Christ. Whenever you need something
done, she's there. I can't tell you much about WCDC, but I know
our manager is there for all of us.
I have been with 4930 S. Langley for about 19 years, I have
seen a lot of managers come and go. Ms. Williams has done a
very good job, the building has gotten a lot better.

Thank you for your comment.

I reside at 4930 S. Langley - I have lived there almost four
years. I have seen wonderful changes since I have been there.
Ms. Williams has done a great job. Ms. Harris has done well
too. We have a good thing going. We live with pride and
dignity, I have seen people grow. I respect the efforts of Ms.
Williams and Ms. Harris. You always have people who resist
change, but those two ladies I respect, because they have
brought change.
I live at 4930 S. Langley, Ms. Williams, the property manager,
has done a good job. I have been there three years. Ms. Harris
has done a good job too. Changes have been made. When I
first moved there, you wouldn't know it was an elderly building,
there were so many young people there. But Ms. Williams
moved them out. Now we have lights and flowers outside the
building.
Good morning. I live at 4930 S. Langley. Ms. Williams and Ms.
Harris do a good job with the building. I think you should leave
Ms. Williams there. Ms. Harris comes to all the functions we
have at the building, we would like you to leave them there.

Thank you for your comment.

2

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

 11

12

George Blakemore

Miguel Suarez

Ms. Akbar
13

14

Roosevelt Thorns

Greetings to the staff, Commissioners, and residents of CHA. I
am not a resident of CHA, but I am old, black and poor. Maybe
in the future I will be a CHA resident. I am looking and I see
mostly black women. I know that 75% of CHA residents are
single and black. We should always have black males. We are
the same black people we have been when we came over and
we have accomplished a lot. When you look here and see
MBEs, we need to know how many are black owned, how many
are Hispanic owned and how many are white owned. Today, I
challenge all you black people - we have not overcome. I urge
all of you to look at the negative effects that illegals have on the
black communities, when it comes to jobs and contracts.
Good morning. I have been a resident at Lathrop Homes for 24
years. My issue is with the Lathrop Community Partners, they
have said they would include the residents and surrounding
community in the planning process. They had an open house,
they showed three scenarios. They said they would follow with
two others, and then bring it down to one and that hasn't
happened. The one that they brought forward does not reflect
anything that we discussed.

Your comments have been received.

I am proud to say my spouse and I are residents of Mary Jane
Richardson Apartments. If you drive around there you’ll see
how nice and clean it is. I am so thankful that we have a
wonderful manager, Ms. Williams. Our building is nice and
clean. We've had trouble makers in the past, but Ms. Williams
takes care of it. The building is nice and clean. For holidays we
have parties. You think senior citizens can't dance, come to one
of our parties, we get down.
I am a senior at Mary Richardson. I have been there a short
while, the staff has always assisted me, and they have done a
great job.

Thank you for your comment.

3

Since the planning process began there have been a series of
community meetings, CHA resident only meetings, open
houses, interviews and one-on-one discussions including CHA
residents. The residents have provided comments regarding
historic preservation, affordability, minimizing disruptions,
employment, sense of community, education and the desire
for residents to remain on site during construction. The CHA
has worked to address resident concerns throughout the
conceptual phase. Furthermore, the CHA/development team
has not yet presented a final plan.

Thank you for your comment.

 15

16

Dennis O'Neill

Charles Hogren

The institutions that played a large role in the Plan for
Transformation were the local agencies – CPS, CHA, BPI &
MacArthur. We would like to hold them accountable for making
the Plan work. MacArthur spent a lot of money, almost
$750,000, to do more work in schools. My point is I know
institutional racism when I see it – I don’t know if it naturally
happened or if it was on purpose, but I can see the results of it
in the Plan for Transformation. We need to remedy that, there
are institutions that need to step up. We want institutions to step
up and help to be a benefit to this community.
For the last 40 years, I have been a neighbor of Lathrop Homes,
which was built in 1937 and 1938, by the Federal Government.
The government hired Jens Jensen, the most famous
landscaping architect in the first half of the 20th century, to
design the park on which Lathrop Homes sits. As a neighbor, I
am in favor of the historic preservation of these beautiful low-rise
buildings at Lathrop Homes. The buildings are structurally
sound and have recently been placed on the National Registrar
of Historic Places. In 2008 you commissioned a study that
determined that Lathrop could be modernized by enlarging each
unit so that the units will total 800 rather than 925, which will
reduce density. The study also said that modernizing the
buildings would cost $340 million. Lathrop is now eligible for
preservation credits, so you could rehab and get $68 million at
the start without going to taxpayers for one penny. I would like
to see the units designated as follows - 400 for public housing,
400 for affordable and no market rate. We are saturated with
market rate. I would like to read a statement from Preservation
Chicago in closing: Julia Lathrop Homes is the best public
housing development Chicago has ever built, representing a
racially mixed, remarkably stable community for generations of
Chicagoans. The development is small-scaled, low-density and
well integrated with the surrounding neighborhood.

4

Thank you for your comment.

Historic preservation and the federal 106 consultation process
is something CHA takes seriously. The CHA is working within
the context of its broad goal to create vibrant, sustainable
mixed-income communities to determine whether historic
preservation of the site can be achieved and if so, in what
fashion.

 17

18

19

20

21

Francine
Washington

Bobbie Archir

John Paul Williams

Evelyn Roberson

Dan Wondaal

Good morning. I have two subjects to talk about. So we have a
lot of residents giving managers a lot of accolades, I want to talk
about Section 3. I would like to thank my managers also,
WCDC, Ms. Harper, Ms. Lewis, who is soft spoken. Ms.
Turnbull, Ms. Simmons from Lake Parc Place. Ms. Avis James
and Ms. Parker, and Ms. Ratley and Goodlow - I work with all
those property managers. Residents talk with the managers, so
we had to go out on three cases last week. We got there and
residents said, “Ms. Washington it's fine now since you're here”,
I went and told them to file grievances. To the property
managers, treat us all the same way. Because you know me
and you know that I know what I'm talking about, don't just treat
me well, treat them all the same way. I shouldn't have to come
to you on behalf of a resident. That's not right.
The only time I go in front of a manager is when there is a
problem, treat us all equal.
Good morning, I am not a resident of Slater, but my mother is.
We have an issue with bed bugs, but once you tell Ms. King,
they treat it. Everything that my mother needs, they are there
for her.
I live at 4218 S. Cottage Grove, I have a manager that listens
when I have a complaint. She does the best she can. It’s
people that bring in bad habits, and they don’t want to let them
go. When she says something about it, or she does something
about it, they get angry.
Good morning, I live at 4218 S. Cottage Grove, I am here on
behalf of the staff in my building, which is a wonderful staff. We
do not want to lose them, my manager is great. They do
everything they can for us, and when we have problems, they fix
them. These managers and staff are doing wonders for us.
WCDC is doing a great job, and we don’t want to lose them.
I am with Allied Services, which provides pest control services
for WCDC. I am here today on behalf of Judge Slater
specifically. We took over the property in 2010 for bed bug
issues, which began with a canine sweep. We have provided
resident seminars, which include how to recognize an infestation
and what residents can do to prevent infestations. We are doing
preventative treatments prior to residents moving in, we have
done 56 of these. We also took over the general pest control
and we've seen great improvement. We will continue to work
with the residents and the property to make it a safe and pest
free environment.
5

Your comment has been received.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment.

Thank you for your comment

Thank you for your comment.

 22

23

24

Rachel Goodstein

James Hollis

J.L. Gross

For 21 years I have been on the Board of the Boys and Girls
Club which serves the Lathrop community. I have lived in the
DePaul area since 1978. I was brought on to the Board of the
Cotter Boys and Girls Club by Dan Cotter, and I want to
welcome the new Board members. I am here to talk about the
planning process for Lathrop. The process should not be sped
up. None of the plans brought to the community were for 100%
preservation of a national landmark. None of the plans preserve
all of the green space. We don't need roads that don't go
anywhere. Lathrop met the criteria of the Plan for
Transformation which began 10 years ago. It is close to jobs,
schools and transportation. The buildings were in good shape
until CHA let them go to wreck under their own management.
Your responsibility as Board members is to determine the
policies, make resolutions and approve decisions of CHA. I
implore you to make the right decisions just as your
predecessors did in 1938 when they made the decision to build
Lathrop Homes. Preserve Lathrop Homes, renovate them, and
repopulate them, there are homeless people who need housing
who could be in there.
I came here, I am not a CHA member yet, but I have been on
the waiting list. I have sent letters to Mr. Woodyard and I
haven't received correspondence back. All I am getting is the
run-around, I would like to know something as of now. I had to
move out of my last place, I have been living with a relative, but I
need to get out of there. I have been trying to wait on you, you
all have given me some places to live, but I specifically put down
certain places, and I even updated. I have crossed my t's and
dotted my i's, I would like to be with CHA.
I am a resident of Lathrop. I am here to give a face to the
people of Lathrop. I have been there 25 years. I have seen the
worst and best. The controversy comes because the
developers are coming in and they want to change it to mixedincome housing. That is all well and good, but we have
integrated housing. We have whites, blacks and Puerto Ricans.
We have a peaceful community. I can walk at 4:30 in the
morning and not worry about someone punching me in the
head. I love that idea. That is comforting to me. Lathrop is a
good community. I can walk down my street and speak to my
neighbors on any given day, I don't know how many people can
say that. That gives me a sense of community and I don't want
to lose that.
6

The CHA is working to determine whether historic
preservation of the site can be achieved within the context of
creating vibrant, sustainable mixed-income communities. The
CHA recognizes the role the site has historically served and its
status on the National Register. The CHA is committed to
providing low-income and affordable housing in opportunity
areas like the north side.

The CHA has worked with the commenter and has followed
appropriate policy protocol. Mr. Hollis is welcome to contact
the Occupancy Department regarding further detail
surrounding his specific case at 312-913-7266.

Thank you for your comment.

 25

Dennis Hood

I am also from Lathrop. I am a ROB, Hood Construction. At this
point, I am kind of downhearted. We had a meeting with the
Congressman and CHA about some concerns we have. I see
that we have not been included. We sat down with you and felt
excited. It feels like a decision has been made and we haven't
been included in it. We are trying to make some positive
changes in Section 3 and ROB so we can help our communities
and help ourselves, and once again, you have dropped the ball
on us. How can you decide on stuff without including the people
you represent? I hope you can look into this. I have been
working on this for some time. Mr. Woodyard, can you look into
this, we want to be implemented in this decision.

7

Vendors can register with CHA in BuySpeed and indicate if
they are a small business or Section 3 business (which
includes ROB). BuySpeed allows potential vendors to view
open solicitations and download CHA bid opportunities. To
stay updated with CHA’s contract opportunities, please visit
the following link:
http://www.thecha.org/pages/open_solicitations/110.php

 