Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of August 17, 2004
Senior Housing, Patrick Sullivan Senior Apartments, 1633 West Madison, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/
1.

Mamie Bone

2.

Lorraine Butler

3.

Keith Jackson

4.

Victor Warren

Question/Comment

Status

The Horner Leadership is being falsely accused of nonperformance in the management of issues relating to
Horner residents. Requested Commissioners to speak
directly to her if they had any questions or concerns.
Congratulated Commissioner Wiggins on her
appointment to the CHA Board.

Comments noted.

Representing Concerned Residents of Westhaven
(CROW). Acknowledged CHA Commissioners and CHA
for convening a rapid response team to deal with issues
presented at the August Operation Committee.
Reiterated general questions and concerns affecting
Westhaven residents.
Ceded his time to Mr. Jackson.

Comments noted. Issues have been addressed.

Comments noted.

N/A
5.

Crystal Palmer

Acknowledged the Operations Committee for granting the
Westhaven group an opportunity to voice their concerns
th
at the August 11 Committee Meeting.

6.

Jessie Carr

Resident leadership would like to work with CHA to
improve Community to include affordable housing, jobs
with fringe benefits, education and safety.

7.

Pansy Dyson

In the past few months, numerous murders have occurred
in community. Requesting better background checks for
new residents and more security for LeClaire.

8.

Eunice Crosby

Will the Commissioners vote on the Minimum Tenant
Selection Plan at today’s (August 17) Board Meeting?

9.

Mildred Dennis

10.

Jacquelyn Rockford

The Charles Hayes FIC Center was not supportive of the
Steppers Set Fund Raiser for Taylor. Requested to
speak to management staff.
Awaiting response to letter submitted to CEO regarding
rampant sale of drugs at the 2100 Block of South
Randolph.

Comments noted.

The CHA is committed to providing residents with resources that will help them to
improve their lives. This includes low-income housing opportunities through public
housing as well as the Housing Choice Voucher program. Through the Service
Connector and Section 3 Programs, the CHA helps to link residents with
education, employment and job training opportunities. Please contact your local
Service Connector and/or CHA’s Human Resources Department for more
information on available resources.
The Chicago Police Department (CPD) Public Housing Section has increased
police presence within LeClaire Courts and recently deployed its team of
community policing officers to patrol the LeClaire Courts Development. This
concern has been forwarded to the CPD Public Housing Section for follow-up.
No, the MTSP is slated for the September Board Meeting.
Meeting has been held and issue resolved.

Issue has been addressed and resolved.

 