Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of October 17, 2006
Trumbull Park Fieldhouse, 2400 E. 105th St., Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/
1.

Myra King

2.

Geneva Lenier
Altgeld

3.

Cheryl Johnson

4.

Isaac Jackson, Jr.

5.

Sholom Strick

6.

Carl Mance

Question/Comment
Welcomed Commissioners and general public to
Trumbull Park.
When will Altgeld’s laundry facility be built?
Four months ago requested data from MacArthur
Grant approved for Altgled/Lathrop/LeClaire. To
date has not been received report from LAC
President or CHA.

Are utilities included in Altgeld’s residents rent? In
order to qualify for assistance you must be a
customer of record with Com Ed and Peoples
Gas.
After several calls to CHA employees is still not
able to get a Section 3 Job. Has provided resume
and requested information to all concerned and is
still unemployed.
Provided petition from CHAC Owners opposing
new Site & Neighborhood Policy. They believe
that CHAC is giving misinformation since owners
have to turn away many voucher holders due to
new rule. Owners believe that policy is patronizing
and condescending to tenants. How can CHAC
standards be higher than Bank appraisals
standards? Owners would like to be partners of
community they live and serve.
Applied for Section 8 in 2000, paperwork got lost
by Property Manager, resubmitted information and
to date has not been able to resolve issue.

Status
Comments Noted.
Two (2) laundry facilities are included in the current bid package
for Murray. The facilities are located on Altgeld property. The
first laundry facility is scheduled to complete in early 3rd quarter
2007.

CHA management staff is working to set up a meeting with
CEDA and property management to resolve the issue.

The CHA’s policy requires that Section 3 job opportunities be
offered first to any qualified residents who live in developments
where the work is being performed. Section 3 workers are hired
from referrals from the Section 3 database, which is available
through the CHA Department of Human Resources.
CHA has discussed the policy with numerous interest groups
and has made changes which are in a public comment period.
The proposed changes can be found on CHA’s website.

Resident Services and ADA Compliance are currently working
with Mr. Mance to address his issues.

 7.

Gene Moreno

8.

Bernadette Williams

Representing the Chicago Rehab Network.
Opposes Site Neighborhood Policy – policy is
disparate in connection to other government and
community revitalization effort. Requesting total
review of policy since CHAC is not utilizing
judgment, CHAC is making decisions on a narrow
view. Families are loosing their vouchers due to
time limitations.
Altgeld residents received credit for utilities in
April.

CHA has discussed the policy with numerous interest groups
and has made changes which are in a public comment period.
The proposed changes can be found on CHA’s website.

Comments Noted.

 