MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL & REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 19, 2005

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held it’s Annual and Regular Meeting on
Tuesday, June 19, 2005, at 8:30 a.m. at the Abraham Lincoln Center located at 3858 South
Cottage, Chicago, Illinois.
The Chairperson announced that the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Housing Authority was
being held in accordance with the Bylaws of the Authority for the election of Officers.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Lori Healey
Martin Nesbitt

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson, he
recently spoke at a forum sponsored by the Metropolitan Planning Council and they had prepared
an update on the Plan for Transformation that provides a very fair and accurate overview of what
CHA has done so far. Mr. Peterson continued by stating that he intends to build on this
opportunity – by reaching out to many segments of Chicago and help them understand how far
the CHA has come and what the future plans are. According to Mr. Peterson, the public needs to
be aware of the support CHA has received from all three levels of government – federal, state
and local. The public needs to see that all agencies of government under the Mayor’s control –
education, health care, job-training, public safety, recreation, planning and development, human
services, housing and the infrastructure departments - are doing their part. In addition, the
corporate and non-profit sectors are also financially and personally involved. Mr. Peterson
concluded his report by providing a list of accomplishments to date, including statistics dealing
with rebuilt and rehabbed units, mixed-income developments and community and social
services.
On behalf of the Board of Commissioners and staff, a token of Appreciation was presented to the
Local Advisory Council Presidents for their continuous support of the Plan For Transformation.
1

 The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Vice-Chairperson. A
Motion was made by Commissioner Gates and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris to
nominate Commissioner Lori Healey for the position of Vice-Chairperson. There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the re-election of Commissioner Lori Healy as Vice Chairperson of the Chicago Housing
Authority.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records aka Secretary of the CHA Board of Commissioners. A Motion was made by
Commissioner Gates and properly seconded by Commissioner Wiggins to nominate Lee ChucGill for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records (Secretary). There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records aka Secretary, Board of
Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Board
Meetings held on May 17 and June 21, 2005. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the
Minutes were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Gates then presented a Motion for the approval of Executive Session Items 1
through 3, in the order presented:
(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-100
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 30, 2005
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$120,000 in the case known as Guzman, et. al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel or her designee to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $120,000 in the matter known
as Guzman, et al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500.

(Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-101
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 5, 2005 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for June 2005.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
June 2005.

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-102
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 13, 2005,
entitled “Authorization for Contract Award for Legal Services”, and subject to an
2

 annual appropriation to the Office of the General Counsel and Risk Management
Department for payment of fees for legal services;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes execution of legal services agreements
with the law firms for the legal practice areas listed below in an amount not to
exceed the annual appropriated budget for the Office of the General Counsel and
Risk Management. All contracts shall be in effect for two years or until legal
services are completed, with a one (1) year option to extend:

Vendors

MBE/WBE

Group A General Litigation
Gardner Carton & Douglas
Michael Best & Friedrick LLP
Schiff Hardin LLP
Schwartz Cooper Greenberger & Krauss
Group B Personal Injury Litigation
Scopelities, Garvin, Light & Hanson
Group D Workers' Compensation
Scopelities, Garvin, Light & Hanson
Group E Contract, Real Estate
Business & Banking Services, P.C.
Gardner Carton & Douglas
Grant Holt & Schumann LLC
Schiff Hardin LLP
Schwartz Cooper Greenberger & Krauss
Shefsky & Froelich Ltd.
Tyson Strong Hill, LLC

*

*

Group F Labor Negotiation
Gardner Carton & Douglas
Michael Best & Friedrick LLP
Schiff Hardin LLP
Group G Ethics Counseling
Gardner Carton & Douglas
The Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee,
Commissioner Ponce then presented the monthly Committee report. Per Commissioner Ponce,
the Finance & Audit Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, July 13, 2005. The Chief
Financial Officer and her staff presented the committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report
as of June 30, 2005.

3

 Commissioner Ponce then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of the resolutions for
Item A1 thru A6, discussed, voted and recommended for approval by the Finance & Audit
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Revised 2005 Comprehensive Budget. The FY2005
budgeted expenditures have been revised from $932,295,345 to $935,023,314, resulting in a
$2,727,969 increase. The impact of this budget revision resulted in the following increase and/or
decrease due to the realignment of the budget to reflect current activities or projected spending in
stated line item: the General Fund increased by $1,601,914, for a fund total of $819,203,931,
the City State fund increased by $53,554 for a fund total of $6,038,462. Other Grants increased
by $1,072,501 for a fund total of $17,805,888 primarily due to an increase to the Summer Food
Program budget, and costs associated with demolition services at Maplewood.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA- 103
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated June 20, 2005,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2005 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2005 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #2”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A2)
The CHA entered into Contract No. 0412 with Deloitte & Touche in 2003 for independent
professional auditing services. The purpose of the audit is to determine whether CHA‘s financial
data and reports can be relied upon, to confirm that internal controls systems are in place, to
determine that proper policies and procedures are followed and to ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of grant awards. The initial Contract term expires June 30, 2005. The
resolution for Item A2 approves exercising a one year option for said contract. During the past
two years, Deloitte has met its contract requirements with CHA and has performed all tasks
expected of the independent auditors. Deloitte has utilized expertise from its varied audit
practice to deliver key solutions to critical accounting and financial issues on behalf of the CHA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-104
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated June 15, 2005 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE
ONE YEAR OPTION FOR CONTRACT NO. 0412 WITH DELOITTE &
TOUCHE, LLP FOR AUDITING SERVICES
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract No. 0412 with Deloitte &
4

 Touche, LLP (D & T) for the period of July 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006 to
provide auditing services for a total amount not-to-exceed $586,700.
(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves the financing and ground lease arrangements and conveyance of
portions of CHA-owned land necessary to proceed with the first on-site phase of the Stateway Gardens
redevelopment known as Park Boulevard. Park Boulevard-Phase 1B will be developed on the northern
portion of the Stateway Gardens site between 35th St. to the south alley of the new 36th St. and State St.
west to the Metra Track embankment. The Master Developer is Stateway Associates LLC, a joint
venture between affiliates of Mesa Development LLC, Neighborhood Rejuvenation Partners, L.P.,
Walsh Construction Company of Illinois and Kimball Hill Development Company. Park Boulevard will
provide 311 diverse housing opportunities, consisting of 211 for-sale units and 100 public housing units.
There are 39 different buildings designed by seven different architectural firms that create an
aesthetically pleasing and diverse Chicago neighborhood. The housing type mix, includes mid-rise
condominiums, town homes, duplex over duplex, flats and single-family homes all with parking. All
PHA units are evenly distributed within all building types and within the site (except for the single
family homes). There will also be ground level retail space along the 35th Street frontage that totals
16,000 square feet. The 211 for-sale housing units will be financed through a conventional construction
loan. The 100 public housing units will be financed by a combination of capital funds from CHA and
equity generated by syndication of low income housing tax credits (LIHTC) and Illinois donation tax
credits. Tax-exempt notes will be used during the construction phase to generate 4% LIHTC. Site and
infrastructure improvements will be financed by Tax Increment Financing (TIF) assistance. The total
development cost of the 311 units in Phase 1B of the proposed Park Boulevard development exceeds
$110 million. As with all other mixed finance transactions, CHA will enter into a Regulatory and
Operating Agreement with the rental owner, Park Boulevard IB LP, which provides for CHA to make a
monthly payment of operating subsidy to cover the operating costs attributable to the public housing
units. Five condominium associations and one master homeowners association will provide management
oversight and maintenance of all common areas and the exterior of the units and the administration of
the various associations’ activities. The public housing units will pay their proportionate share of
condominium assessments to cover costs associated with activities and responsibilities of the
associations. The operating subsidy paid by CHA for the public housing units will cover the
condominium assessments attributed to public housing units’ as well as expenses attributable to the
maintenance and operation of the public housing units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-105
RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO
EXCEED $15,000,000 AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVENUE NOTES, SERIES 2005A-C
(PARK BOULEVARD-PHASES 1B.1–1B.3) OF THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY AND AUTHORIZING THE SALE
THEREOF; AUTHORIZING THE LOAN OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE
NOTES TO PARK BOULEVARD 1B, L.P. TO BE USED TO PAY A
PORTION OF THE COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT;
AUTHORIZING THE SALE OF THE NOTES TO BANK OF
AMERICA, N.A.; AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND
DELIVERY OF CERTAIN NOTE DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION
WITH THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF THE NOTES; AUTHORIZING
A MASTER GROUND LEASE OF THE PARK BOULEVARD 1B SITE
(FORMERLY STATEWAY GARDENS); AUTHORIZING VARIOUS
SITE SPECIFIC GROUND LEASES AND QUIT CLAIM DEEDS TO
PORTIONS OF THE PARK BOULEVARD 1B SITE; AUTHORIZING
THE LOAN BY THE AUTHORITY OF CAPITAL FUNDS TO PARK
BOULEVARD 1B, L.P. TO PROVIDE FINANCING FOR CERTAIN
COSTS OF THE PROJECT AND TO RETIRE A PORTION OF THE
NOTES, AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF CERTAIN
AGREEMENTS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH; AND RELATED
MATTERS.
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
Illinois (the “Authority”), including, without limitation, the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS
10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local
Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of
5

 the State of Illinois (the “State”), including, without limitation, the Act, to issue its revenue
notes and bonds for the purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the
proceeds thereof to finance the cost of the development and construction of multifamily rental
housing located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and
WHEREAS, Park Boulevard 1B, L.P., an Illinois limited partnership (the “Borrower”), proposes
to finance a portion of the costs of the construction of a development known as Phase 1B of
Stateway Gardens in Chicago, Illinois (also known as “Park Boulevard”) (the “Development”)
consisting in part of 100 residential rental units situated in approximately 27 buildings (the
“Project”) through the issuance by the Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Notes,
Series 2005A-C (Park Boulevard – Phases 1B.1–1B.3) in three phases to provide financing for
the Project (collectively the “Notes”); and
WHEREAS, the Notes will be issued from time to time during the acquisition,
construction and equipping of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the general partner of the Borrower is Park Boulevard, LLC, an Illinois
limited liability company (the “Developer”); and
WHEREAS, the Project will be acquired, constructed and equipped by the Developer for
the benefit of the Borrower as provided in a purchase contract to be entered into by the General
Partner and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Commissioners of the Authority, on June 21, 2005 adopted a resolution
authorizing the submission of a mixed-finance proposal for the Project to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) and a request to ground lease the site
of the Project to the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing thereof will
meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority
is now prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project through the
issuance and sale of the Notes in three phases corresponding to the phases of the Development
pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement (the “Note Issuance Agreement”) among the Authority,
Bank of America, N.A., as Noteholder (the “Bank”), and Bank of America, N.A., as Fiscal
Agent; and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned to the Borrower pursuant to a Loan
Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) between the Authority and the Borrower, and the
obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service due under the Loan Agreement will be evidenced
by Notes (the “Borrower Notes”) from the Borrower to the Authority; and
WHEREAS, the Authority’s right, title and interest to receive payments under the Loan
Agreement, except payments made pursuant to certain reserved rights, will be assigned to the
Bank pursuant to an Assignment and Security Agreement (the “Assignment and Security
Agreement”) between the Authority and the Bank; and
WHEREAS, certain income and other rental restrictions required by Section 142 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) will be specified in a Land Use Restriction
Agreement (the “Land Use Restriction Agreement”) between the Authority and the Borrower;
and
WHEREAS, certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the
Code will be specified in one or more Tax Compliance Agreements (the “Tax Agreements”)
between the Authority and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Borrower Notes will be secured by a
mortgage (the “Mortgage”) from the Borrower and certain other collateral and security
documents; and

6

 WHEREAS, the Authority will enter into a Master Ground Lease of the site on which the
Development is to be constructed (the “Master Ground Lease”) with the Developer and
Stateway Community Partners, Inc. (the “NFP”) entitling the Authority to receive affordable
housing tax credits (“Illinois Tax Credits”) under Section 3805/7.28 of the Affordable Housing
Act, 20 ILCS 3895/1 et seq., and
WHEREAS, the NFP’s interest under the Master Ground Lease will be assigned to the
Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Authority intends to assign the Illinois Tax Credits to a financial
institution and use the proceeds thereof to make a grant or loan to the Borrower to pay a portion
of the costs of acquiring and constructing the Project; and
WHEREAS, any loan to the Borrower of the proceeds of the Illinois Tax Credits will be
made pursuant to a loan agreement and will be evidenced and secured by a note and mortgage
executed and delivered by the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, concurrent with the commencement of construction of each subphase of the
Development, portions of the Development site will be released from the Master Ground Lease
and leased by the Authority to the Developer pursuant to various ground leases (the “Ground
Leases”); and
WHEREAS, the Series 2005A1, Series 2005B1 and Series 2005C1 Notes will be secured
by and payable from certain CHA capital funds (“CHA Capital Funds”) received by the
Authority and deposited pursuant to a Pledge Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) among the
Authority, Daniel E. Levin and the Habitat Company, LLC, jointly, as court-appointed receiver
for the Authority for the development of new non-elderly housing (the “Receiver”), the
Borrower and an Escrow Agent; and
WHEREAS, such CHA Capital Funds, upon withdrawal under the Pledge Agreement,
will constitute a portion of the loan from the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a Loan
Agreement (the “Capital Funds Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower, which loan will total
approximately $13.0 million; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower will be required to operate the Project for the use and
occupancy of public housing eligible individuals and, in connection therewith, the Authority will
enter into a Regulatory and Operating Agreement (the “Regulatory and Operating Agreement”)
with the Borrower and a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants (the “Declaration”) with the
Borrower and with HUD, and the Borrower will execute and deliver to the Authority a Loan
Agreement, Subordinate Mortgage, Security Agreement and Financing Statement, Note,
Assignment of Rents and Leases, UCC Financing Statements, Environmental Agreement and
related agreements and instruments (the “Borrower Loan Documents”); and
WHEREAS, as provided in a Property Rights Agreement (the “Property Rights
Agreement”), the Borrower will grant to the Authority a right of first refusal relating to the
Project, to be exercisable at the expiration or earlier termination of the Regulatory and Operating
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to a Sales Proceeds Escrow Agreement (the “Sales Proceeds
Escrow Agreement”) a portion of the proceeds of the sale of the for-sale units in the
Development will be available to support the operation of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Notes and the other funding sources will be disbursed
pursuant to a Construction Loan Escrow and Disbursement Agreement (the “Disbursement
Agreement”) among the Authority, the Receiver, the Bank, the Borrower, the contractor and a
disbursing agent; and
WHEREAS, the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Borrower for the expenditures with proceeds of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City has approved the transfer to the Authority of up

7

 to $15,000,000 of the City’s available unused volume cap for calendar year 2005 pursuant to
Section 146 of the Code for use by the Authority in connection with the issuance of the Notes;
and
WHEREAS, the Authority, the Receiver and HUD will enter into a Mixed-Finance
Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract with HUD (the “Mixed-Finance
Amendment”); and
WHEREAS, the Notes, the Note Issuance Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the
Assignment and Security Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Land Use Restriction
Agreement, the Declaration, the Master Ground Lease, the Ground Leases, the Capital Fund
Loan Agreement, the Regulatory and Operating Agreement, the Borrower Loan Documents, the
Property Rights Agreement, the Sales Proceeds Escrow Agreement, the Mixed-Finance
Amendment, and the Disbursement Agreement are referred to collectively herein as the
“Authority Agreements”; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has caused to be prepared and presented to this meeting each
of the Authority Agreements;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING
AUTHORITY:
Section 1. The Authority is authorized to enter into the Authority Agreements with the
other parties thereto in substantially the same forms as are now before the Authority. The forms,
terms and provisions of the Authority Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects
approved. The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the
Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and
deliver, and, where necessary, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer,
the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be and each of them hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the Authority to, the
Authority Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to cause
the Authority Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or
parties thereto, in substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such changes therein
as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the Authority shall approve,
his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval (and the approval
of this Board) of any and all changes or revisions therein from the forms of Authority
Agreements now before the Authority. When the Authority Agreements are executed, attested,
sealed and delivered on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove provided, they shall be binding on
the Authority. From and after the execution and delivery of the Authority Agreements, the
officers, employees and agents of the Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed
to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents (including the Tax Agreements)
as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of the Authority Agreements as
executed. The Authority Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this
Resolution, and copies of the Authority Agreements shall be placed in the official records of the
Authority, and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Authority.
Section 2. The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $15,000,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Note Issuance
Agreement. The Notes shall bear interest at such rate or rates as shall be set forth in the Note
Issuance Agreement, in no event to exceed the greater of 9% per annum or 125% of the rate for
the most recent date shown in the 20 G.O. Bonds Index of average municipal bond yields as
published in the most recent edition of the Bond Buyer (or any successor publication or index).
The Notes shall mature on such date or dates as shall be set forth in the Note Issuance
Agreement, but in no event later than 5 years following the date of their initial issuance and
delivery to the initial purchaser thereof the Note Issuance Agreement shall be subject to
prepayment prior to maturity as provided in the Note Issuance Agreement.
Section 3. The Notes and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the
Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement or from the other sources specified or referred to in the Note Issuance Agreement,
which shall be specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent
provided therein. The Notes and all other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith
8

 shall not be a debt of the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village,
incorporated town or county, nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be
liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Notes or such obligations be payable out of any funds or
properties other than those pledged under the Note Issuance Agreement or those other
agreements specifically securing the Notes. The Notes shall not constitute an indebtedness within
the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
Section 4. The forms of the Notes set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Note Issuance
Agreement (as executed and delivered) be, and the same hereby are approved. The Notes shall
be executed in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile
signature of its Chairman (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on behalf
of the Authority) and attested with the manual or facsimile signature of its Executive Advisor to
the Board, Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute
the Notes on behalf of the Authority) and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or
imprinted thereon. The officers of the Authority shall cause the Notes, as so executed and
attested, to be delivered to the Bank. When the Notes are executed on behalf of the Authority in
the manner contemplated by the Note Issuance Agreement and this Resolution, they shall
represent the approved forms of Notes of the Authority.
Section 5 The sale of the Notes to the Bank at a purchase price of not less than 100% of
the aggregate principal amount thereof (exclusive of financing fees and expenses) is hereby
approved.
Section 6. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Executive
Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be, and each of
them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings
of the Authority (including, without limitation, environmental remediation agreements,
investment agreements, book-entry registration agreements, tax compliance agreements and
intercreditor agreements) and to take such other actions as may be required or desirable in
connection with the execution, delivery and performance of the Authority Agreements, the
financing of costs of the Project and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes. The making of
a grant or loan of the proceeds of the Illinois Tax Credits to the Borrower is hereby approved in
all respects.
Section 7. All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are in
conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects. ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 8. The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public hearing and
the conduct of such public hearing by and on behalf of the Authority with respect to the issuance
of the Notes is hereby authorized, ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 9. The Authority authorizes any public hearings pursuant to Section 147(f) of the
Code for future issuances by the Authority of multifamily housing revenue notes or bonds to be
conducted either at meetings of the Board of Commissioners or any committee of
Commissioners of the Authority or separately, on behalf of the Authority, by any designee of the
Chairman of the Authority or, in the absence of such designation, by the Authority’s Managing
Director-Development, or Director-Development Management, its Chief Financial Officer, or its
Deputy Chief Financial Officer which are hereby designated hearing officers of the Authority for
such purpose. The officers of the Authority are authorized to seek the approval of the Notes by
an “applicable elected representative” of the City pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Code and to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Chicago with respect to “volume
cap.”
Section 10. The Authority hereby allocates to the Notes the “volume cap” reallocated by
the City to the Authority in an amount equal to the aggregate principal, amount of the Notes
actually issued.

9

 Section 11. The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
expenditures with proceeds of the Notes.
Section 12. The Notes, or any one or more series thereof, may be initially issued in bookentry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York
(“DTC ‘), or its nominee, as securities depository.
Section 13. The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if
any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of
this Resolution.
Section 14. All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby
superseded to the extent of such conflict.
Section 15. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage,
as by law provided.
(Item A4)
In May 2003, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Authority to establish a pre-qualified
pool of bond underwriters. The pool consists of firms that have the ability to contribute
significant structuring and marketing recommendations in a variety of key areas. These areas
included evaluating the use of governmental purpose bonds; structuring mixed finance
transactions for various projects using tax-exempt bonds and other financing methods; and
providing strategic advice regarding rating agency approach. The Chicago Housing Authority
anticipates issuing governmental purpose bonds or private activity revenue bonds, when
appropriate, to finance the cost of rehabilitating and/or redeveloping portions of its public
housing portfolio. Because transactions of this nature vary in size and complexity, and in many
cases it is necessary to move quickly to take advantage of market conditions, it is beneficial to
the Authority to have a pre-qualified pool of firms to provide investment banking services to
support the CHA’s redevelopment program. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A4 approves a
one year extension for pre-qualified firms to provide bond underwriting services. The pool is
divided into two categories: Designated Senior Managers – Six firms that will provide
investment banking services on transactions in which the Authority has the discretion to select
underwriters. Eligible Senior or Co-Managers – firms that will be allowed to underwrite bonds
issued by the Authority if there is an existing relationship with a developer.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA 106
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 13, 2005 entitled “Authorization to Extend Pool of PreQualified Bond Underwriters“
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the pool of pre-qualified bond underwriter through May 19,
2006, for the following pre-qualified firms to provide bond underwriting services:
Designated
Senior Managers
Lehman Bros.
Smith Barney
RBC Dain Rauscher
Bank of America
Loop Capital
SBK Brooks

10

Eligible Senior/ CoManagers
UBS PaineWebber
Merrill Lynch
Newman & Assoc.
LaSalle Capital Mkts.
George K. Baum
Berean Capital
Mesirow Financial
William Blair
A.G. Edwards
Bank One
Griffin, Kubik, Stephens
MR Beal

 Siebert Brandford Shank
Ramirez & Co.
(Item A5 )
In March 2005 the CHA issued a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) soliciting qualified firms
who could provide various areas of information technology consulting services for the CHA. The
CHA received authorization from HUD to competitively procure and evaluate the qualifications
of ITS Consulting Firms. Pursuant to the requested authorization, the CHA intends to enter into
a Master Agreement with each of the approved and pre-qualified firms which shall contain all of
the CHA’s and HUD’s standard terms and conditions. RFQ’s will be issued annually or
periodically to allow additional firms the opportunity to pre-qualify. The CHA desires to use
professional consultants to supplement internal resources and to implement the Information
Technology Strategic Plan. The current technology environment provides opportunities for the
CHA to select experienced firms in technology specialty areas, while the CHA’s Plan for
Transformation creates a dynamic opportunity for technology firms to provide systems solutions
to complex information needs. The use of pre-qualified vendors to provide professional services
has been a tool of public sector procurement for several years. Areas such as architectural and
engineering services have previously been adopted by HUD. The CHA has utilized a prequalified pool system approved by HUD for the retention of ITS services from approved vendors
and service providers since 2002. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 approves maintaining
six pre-qualified management consulting firm pools for the ITS Department.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-107
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated titled
“Authorization to re-establish six (6) pre-qualified management consulting firm
pools with specific expertise in ITS consulting, telecommunications, LAN/WAN,
database architecture and development, geographic information systems, and web
design and implementation for an initial term of two (2) years, in an amount notto-exceed $11,000.000.00.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to re-establish six (6) pre-qualified management consulting firm pools
with specific expertise in ITS consulting, telecommunications, LAN/WAN,
database architecture and development, geographic information systems, and web
design and implementation for an initial term of two (2) years, in an amount notto-exceed $11,000.000.00.

Category = ITS Consulting
Firms:
Actoras Partners
Advanced Concepts Chicago
Advanced Data Concepts
American Express
B2B Strategic Solutions
Bast Services
Blackwell Consulting
Bronner Consulting
Catalyst
Ciber
Clarity Consulting
Crowe Chizek
DiamondCluster
Dunn Solutions
Edge Systems
Edge Technological Resources
Electronic Knowledge Interchange

Foster Group
Gartner
Globetrotters Engineering
GMS Consulting
Greenwich Tech
Information Technology Int
ITQ Lata
JDM Infrastructure
JDR Consulting
Jefferson Wells
KPMG
Kristine Fallon
Level-1
MAC Computers
MKM Consulting
Navigant Consulting
Paradigm Solutions

Category = LAN/WAN
Firms:
Advanced Concepts Chicago
B2B Strategic Solutions

Globetrotters Engineering
Greenwich Tech
11

Parks Consulting Group
Plante Moran
Rose International
SBC
Senryo Technologies
Smart & Associates
Solai & Cameron
Stratus Consulting
Synch-Solutions
System Development Int
Technology Consortium
Telecommunication Syst
Triad Consulting
Tugtel
Unisys
Yardi

Smart & Associates
Smart Technology

 Bast Services
Blackwell Consulting
Ciber
Clarity Consulting
DiamondCluster
DTI
Edge Technological Resources
Environmental Systems Design
Category = Telecommunications
Firms:
Adecco Tech
Advanced Concepts Chicago
Bast Services
Clarity Consulting
DTI
Electronic Knowledge Interchange

Information Technology Int
Plante Moran
Quantum Crossings
Rose International
SBC
Science Applications Int
Sentient
Sentinel

Solai & Cameron
Stratus Consulting
System Development Int
Technology Consortium
Telecommunication System
Tugtel
Unisys

Entera Consulting
Environmental Systems Des
Globetrotters Engineering
Level-1
Plante Moran
Quantum Crossings

SBC
Sentient
Telecommunication System
Tugtel
Unisys

Category = Database Architecture and Development
Firms:
Blackwell Consulting
Edge Systems
Bronner Consulting
Electronic Knowledge Int
Catalyst
Navigant Consulting
Ciber
Paradigm Solutions
Clarity Consulting
PMA Consultants
DiamondCluster
Rose International
DTI
Senryo Technologies

Smart & Associates
Synch-Solutions
System Development Int
Technology Consortium
Telecommunication System
Viva USA
Yardi

Category = Geographic Information Systems
Firms:
B2B Strategic Solutions
GEO Analytics
Camp Dresser & McGee
GEO Decisions/Garnnett
Cybertech Systems
GIS Solutions
Electronic Knowledge Interchange Pangaea Information Tech

Patrick Engineering
Plan Graphics
Science Applications Int
System Development Int

Category = Web Design and Implementation
Firms:
B2B Strategic Solutions
Edge Systems
Bast Services
Electronic Knowledge Int
Blackwell Consulting
Indusa Tech
Bronner Consulting
ITQ Lata
Catalyst
Navigant Consulting
Ciber
Paradigm Solutions
Clarity Consulting
Plan Graphics
DTI
PMA Consultants
Dunn Solutions
Rose International

Smart & Associates
Smart Technology
Synch-Solutions
System Development Int
Telecommunication System
Triad Consulting
Unisys
Viva USA
Yardi

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves addition of funds, not-to-exceed $8,000,000.00, to the six
existing pre-qualified vendor pool. The additional authorization of funds for the existing prequalified pools will provide necessary funding to complete various Ongoing Projects already in
progress, which will not be completed as of the expiration of the existing pool arrangement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-108
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July, 19, 2005
titled “Authorization to add funds to the six (6) pre-qualified management
consulting firm pools for the following categories: (1) ITS consulting, (2)
telecommunications, (3) LAN/WAN, (4) database architecture and development,
(5) geographic information systems, and (6) web design and implementation for
an additional not-to-exceed amount of $8,000,000.00.”

12

 THEREFORE BE, IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to add funds to the six (6) pre-qualified management consulting firm
pools for the following categories: (1) ITS consulting, (2) telecommunications,
(3) LAN/WAN, (4) database architecture and development, (5) geographic
information systems, and (6) web design and implementation for an additional
not-to-exceed amount of $8,000,000.00.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facility Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facility Committee held its
regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, July 13, 2005, at 1:30 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson
Corporate Offices. There were no presentations to come before the Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B6, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item B1
The Resolution for Item B1 approves Contract Modification No. G-01 to Contract No. 0386 for
additional façade repairs at the Pomeroy Apartments. This additional work is needed as the result
of Discovered Conditions at the development, to complete work directed by the CHA, and the
need to achieve compliance with the City of Chicago Building Codes. The work includes
rebuilding the east and north interior parapet walls and the west exterior courtyard wall, and
removal and rebuilding of the deteriorated masonry on the west wall. In addition, the Contractor
will be authorized to extend its rental of a sidewalk canopy to protect the residents of the
building and the general public. This Change Order also includes money for emergency work
performed to stabilize bricks around openings created during work on the parapet circling the
building, and to temporarily cover over the openings with protective heavy duty plastic. Credits
will be issued for the deletion of certain items in the Scope of Work that are no longer required.
In order to complete these additional façade repairs, the contract will be extended by four
hundred eighty four (484) calendar days.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-109
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-01 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0386 WITH FINE LINE BT CORPORATION FOR
ADDITIONAL FAÇADE REPAIRS AT RALPH POMEROY APARTMENTS
(IL2-039)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-01 to Contract No. 0386
with Fine Line BT Corporation in the amount of $166,135.67 for additional
facade repairs at Ralph Pomeroy Apartments, 1039 West Hollywood Avenue,
13

 which is a Senior Housing building undergoing façade repairs under Contract No.
0386. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0386 is $1,345,435.67. The
date for completion of the facade repairs at Ralph Pomeroy Apartments is
extended by four hundred eighty four (484) calendar days. The new contract
completion date for Contract No. 0386 is November 30, 2005. This modification
is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.
(Item B2)
The Resolution for Item B2 approves Contract Modification No. G-11 to Contract No. 0424 for
additional rehabilitation work at Sheridan and Devon Apartments. façade repairs at the Pomeroy
Apartments. This additional work is required to address Discovered Conditions and design
errors at the development and to achieve compliance with the City of Chicago Building Codes.
The work includes sewer and plumbing repairs, removal of vinyl tile in the public corridors, the
installation of gas pressure regulators and modification of gas lines in certain units, the
installation of gates for the trash area, and temporary shoring of an area of the roof where a
helicopter will deliver hot water boilers and other mechanical equipment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-110
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-11 TO
CONTRACT NO. 0424 WITH G. F. STRUCTURES CORPORATION FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE GENERAL REHABILITATION
AT SHERIDAN AND DEVON APARTMENTS (IL2-073)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-11 to Contract No. 0424
with G. F. Structures in the amount of $173,243.11 for additional work related to
the general rehabilitation at Sheridan and Devon Apartments, 6400 North
Sheridan Road. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0424 is
$15,467,493.17. This modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with
the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and
insurance requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA is in the process of rehabbing the Wentworth Gardens Family Housing development
pursuant to the Plan for Transformation. Appliances are required as part of the specifications of
this rehabilitation project and would normally have been procured by the General Contractor as
part of its contract. However, the Department of Procurement and Contracts identified this item
as a possible opportunity for utilizing the alternative procurement process with Resident Owned
Businesses (ROB). This solicitation was prepared with the intent to bolster the capacity, expand
the experience, and augment the confidence of the chosen ROB. The ROB will supply and
deliver appliances to the General Contractor until all requirements of the procurement have been
fulfilled. Based on the IFB advertised in March 2005, four (4) firms submitted bids. A review of
the bids determined that the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for appliances was
Property Related Services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B3 approves award of contract
to Property Related Services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-111
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH PROPERTY
RELATED SERVICES FOR THE SUPPLY AND DELIVERY OF
APPLIANCES DURING THE GENERAL REHABILITATION OF UNITS IN
WENTWORTH GARDENS (IL2-008) FAMILY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Property Related Services in the amount of
$239,560.00 for the supply and delivery of appliances during the general
rehabilitation of Units in the Wentworth Gardens (IL2-008) Family Housing
14

 development. The contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed,
and shall continue until the appliance requirements are completed. This award is
subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s insurance requirements.
(Item B4)
Similar to Item B3, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to Property Related
Services for appliances and paint, and Home Index Center for vinyl tile for the Altgeld Gardens
rehab project. Four firms submitted bids in response to the IFB advertised on June 2, 2005. A
review of the bids determined that Property Related Services and Home Index Center were the
lowest responsive and responsible bidders.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-112
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH PROPERTY
RELATED SERVICES AND HOME INDEX CENTER FOR THE SUPPLY
AND DELIVERY OF APPLIANCES, PAINT AND TILE DURING THE
GENERAL REHABILITATION OF UNITS IN ALTGELD GARDENS (IL2007) FAMILY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with Property Related Services in the amount of
$827,251.50 for the supply and delivery of appliances and paint, and with Home
Index Center in the amount of $305,429.16 for the supply and delivery of vinyl
floor tile. The contracts shall take effect on the dates of the individual Notices to
Proceed and shall continue until the appliances, paint, and tile requirements are
completed. These awards are subject to each Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
As part of the Capital Improvement Program, the CHA solicited bids for Demolition Services to
demolish six (6) non-dwelling structures. The demolition of these structures are needed as part of
the ongoing renovation of Chicago Housing Authority developments as part of the Plan for
Transformation. The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid in May 2005 in area newspapers and
directly solicited nine firms, including two MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the five bids opened, the
lowest responsive and responsible bidders were deemed to be American Demolition for Sites No.
1 and 3, and Omega Demolition for Site 2. The criteria for awarding contracts was based on the
lowest overall lump sum total within each site package from responsive and responsible bidders.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5 approves award of contract to American Demolition and
Omega Demolition.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-113
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 13, 2005
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS WITH AMERICAN
DEMOLITION AND OMEGA DEMOLITION FOR DEMOLITION OF NONDWELLING BUILDING STRUCTURES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute contracts with American Demolition in the amount of
$967,870.00 to demolish the five (5) non-dwelling structures included in the
packages for Site No. 1 and Site No. 3, and with Omega Demolition in the amount
of $110,000.00 to demolish the single non-dwelling structure included in the
package for Site No. 2. The contracts shall take effect on the dates of the
individual Notices to Proceed. The demolition of the buildings included in the
Site No. 1 package is to be completed within one hundred fifty (150) calendar
days of the Notice to Proceed. The demolition of the buildings included in the Site
No. 2 and Site No. 3 packages is to be completed within one hundred twenty
(120) calendar days of the Notice to Proceed. These awards are subject to each
Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident
hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.
15

 (Item B6)
On January 6, 2000, the Board of Commissioners approved the Plan for Transformation, which
upon approval by HUD was incorporated into a Moving to Work (“MTW”) Agreement. Per the
MTW, the Authority is required to submit an annual plan to HUD outlining the steps the CHA
will take during the applicable fiscal year to achieve the goals and commitments of the Plan for
Transformation. The FY2005 Annual Plan was approved by the Board of Commissioners on
October 19, 2004 and included the above referenced properties in the demolition subsection, to
be demolished during the fourth quarter of 2005. Per HUD regulations at 24 CFR Part 970.8,
permission to demolish all or a portion of a development must be requested via submission of a
demolition application. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B6 grants approval to submit a
demolition application to HUD for the following sites: 3909 S. Indiana Avenue and 4400-02 S.
St. Lawrence Avenue.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-114
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 13, 2005,
entitled “Request for Authorization to Submit a Demolition Application to the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the Demolition
of 3909 S. Indiana Avenue and 4400-02 S. St. Lawrence Avenue and to Demolish
Said Properties”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to submit a demolition application to the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) for the demolition of the four (4) unit building at
3909 S. Indiana Avenue and the twelve (12) unit building at 4400-02 S. St.
Lawrence Avenue, and to commence demolition upon receipt of approval from
HUD.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B6 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, July 13 at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
In March 2004, the Board of Commissioners authorized a Contract with Northeastern Illinois
University (NEIU) to provide housing counseling and supportive services to families who had to
relocate from their existing public housing in buildings scheduled for closing due to
redevelopment/rehabilitation to other CHA public housing units or the private-market housing
using a Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”). The Contract’s initial term was for fourteen months
with four one-year options. The Resolution for Item C1 approves extension of the first year
contract option with Northeastern Illinois University. Northeastern Illinois University has met,
16

 and at times exceeded its contract obligations with the CHA. During the Contract’s initial term,
NEIU began providing relocation services to families in Ida B. Wells. Funds will be utilized
during the first year’s option period to provide the remaining phases of services to these families,
which include placement and follow-up. For the first year’s extension option, $790,675.00 of
additional funding is required to allow NEIU to provide services to approximately 181 new
families in Rockwell Gardens. In addition, NEIU will continue to provide follow-up services to
families who relocated during the base term of the contract.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-115
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Board letter dated July 13, 2005 entitled “Recommendation to Exercise the First
Year Option of Contract No. 0598 with Northeastern Illinois University for
Housing and Supportive Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the first one (l) year extension option of Contract No. 0598
with Northeastern Illinois University for housing and supportive services for the
period of September 1, 2005 through August 31, 2006 and to add $790,675.00
additional funding to the not-to-exceed contract amount. The new total not-toexceed amount of the Contract will be $1,790,675.00.

(Item C2)
In September 2003, the Board approved a contract with Century Place Development Corporation
d/b/a/ Heartland Housing Inc. to provide Community & Supportive Services to the Jazz on the
Boulevard Development Community. The contract’s initial term is for twenty four months with
a one-year option. Case management services include outreach, assessment, service need
determination, referrals to appropriate services, job placement and retention services, housing
readiness and post occupancy services to help families achieve a successful relocation and meet
the site specific criteria for redevelopment at the Jazz on the Boulevard mixed income
community. The resolution for Item C2 approves a contract amendment with Heartland Housing
for the one year option period in the amount $456,565.00 to provide assessment and case
management services to a caseload of 170 families with a cost per family of $2,685.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2005-CHA-116
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2005
entitled “Authorization to Amend Contract No. 0633 With Heartland Housing,
Inc. d/b/a Century Place Development Corporation for an Additional Year to
Provide Community & Supportive Services to Families Relocating to the Jazz On
The Boulevard Community”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to exercise the one year option of Contract No. 0633 (the “CSS
Contract”) with Heartland Housing, Inc., d/b/a Century Place Development
Corporation (“Heartland”) for needs assessment and case management services to
Jazz on the Boulevard residents for the period of September 1, 2005 through
August 30, 2006 in an amount not to exceed $456,565.00.

17

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C2 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

_______________________
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson
________________________
Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

18

 