MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 20, 2004

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Annual and Regular Meeting on
Tuesday, July 20, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at the Senior Housing South – Judge Green Apartments,
4030 S. Lake Park, Chicago, Illinois.
The Chairperson announced that the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Housing Authority was
being held in accordance with the Bylaws of the Authority for the election of Officers in addition
to celebrate the mid-point of the Plan For Transformation.
Chairperson Gilliam then introduced the Chicago Military Academy - Bronzeville for the Posting
of the Colors. Immediately after, Commissioner Carlos Ponce led the audience in reciting the
Pledge of Allegiance. Commissioner Harris’ Centering Thoughts and the delivery of the Homily
by Reverend Arthur Brazier, Pastor, Apostolic Church of God, which focused on the Annual
Meeting theme of “Drum Major For Change” then followed. Also included in the program was
performance by the Ambassador Choir and excerpt of Dr. Martin Luther King’s speech. The
video “Taking Shape: The CHA’s Plan For Transformation” which presented an overview of
CHA’s accomplishments to date was then viewed and applauded by the audience.
On behalf of the Board of Commissioners and staff, Commissioners Amey and Gates then
presented Certificates of Appreciation to the Local Advisory Council Presidents for their
continuous support of the Plan For Transformation. Commissioner Healey then presented a
Certificate of Appreciation to Leo Burnett for conducting the informational campaign on behalf
of CHA on a pro-bono basis.
Immediately after the presentations, Ollie Jinadu, Tomeka Eason, Astrid Stokes, Doris
Kinnebrew and Latoya Wolfe, residents of the CHA, shared their thoughts and feelings on how
the Plan for Transformation not only changed their physical space but their perceptions on where
they live and how they live.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.

1

 There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his report. Mr. Peterson commenced his
report by expressing his appreciation to the residents for believing and participating in the Plan
For Transformation. Mr. Peterson then acknowledged the resident leadership and all stake
holders involved in the vision of assisting the CHA in making the Plan a reality. Mr. Peterson
then presented a summary of the goals to be accomplished in the next five years, including
getting public housing units built on time and on budget, making sure that the market-rate units
get sold so the mixed-income strategy comes to pass, bolstering the service connector program
so the needs of families and children are addressed and aggressively working harder to bring new
business into these neighborhoods. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by thanking the CHA
Board of Commissioners and the Mayor of Chicago for their guidance and support. Mr. Peterson
assured the residents and public at large that he would not stop until the Mayor’s goal became a
reality, that of making public housing residents an integral part of Chicago in all its dimensions,
socially, culturally, and economically by creating mixed-income communities.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Vice-Chairperson. A
Motion was made by Commissioner Gates and properly seconded by Commissioner Ponce to
nominate Commissioner Lori Healey for the position of Vice-Chairperson. There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the re-election of Commissioner Lori Healy as Vice Chairperson of the Chicago Housing
Authority.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records aka Secretary of the CHA Board of Commissioners. A Motion was made by
Commissioner Harris and properly seconded by Commissioner Bone to nominate Lee Chuc-Gill
for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records. There being no other nomination on the
slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval for the re-election
of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records aka Secretary, Board of Commissioners of
the Chicago Housing Authority.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced for approval the Minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting held on May 18, 2004. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were
unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Commissioner Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, presented the monthly
report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, July 14, 2004, at the 626 Corporate Office. The Chief Financial Officer and her staff
presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of June 30, 2004.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves the Revised 2004 Comprehensive Budget. The impact of
this budget revision resulted in the following increase and/or decrease due to the realignment of
the budget to reflect current activities or projected spending in stated line item: the General
Fund decreased by $1,768,807.00, for a fund total of $848,483,000; the HOPE VI Fund
decreased by $9,279,694 for a fund total of $70,414,948; the City State fund increased by
$56,892 for a fund total of $18,080,726.00. Other Grants increased by $625,000 for a fund total
of $11,114,697 primarily due to the addition of funding for the Cabrini Security Initiative and the
realignment of the budget to reflect current activities at Leclaire Courts.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA- 80
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated June 17, 2004,
entitled “Approval of the Revised 2004 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“Approval of the Revised 2004 Comprehensive Budget”, and finds with respect to
said Budget:
2

 1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to accept the $4,104,000 of
grant funding from HUD for the demolition of five hundred thirty six dilapidated units of CHA
public housing. The signing of the Demolition Grant Agreement memorializes and incorporates
all documents relating to the grants.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 30, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute FY 2003 HOPE VI Demolition Grant
Agreement”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to sign the FY 2003 HOPE VI Demolition Grant Agreement for William
Green Homes (IL2-030) in the amount of $ 4,104,000.00.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes that the 2004 CHA budget be
revised to reflect the award of $4,104,000.00 in 2003 HOPE VI Demolition
Funds.

(Item A3)
To reduce the potential legal and funding risks associated with difficulty locating and
maintaining records, Deloitte and Touche, Auditors for CHA, recommended that a
comprehensive records management strategy be developed. The resolution for Item A3 approves
adoption of the revised Records Management Policy since the existing Records Management
Policy is not being implemented. Changes to the policy include enhanced procedures for
retaining and destroying records and protection of vital and historical records.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 28, 2004,
requesting adoption of a revised Records Management Policy and concurs in the
recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners repeals and rescinds any and all previously adopted
Records Management Policy and resolutions related to the approval of such
policy.

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the revised Chicago Housing Authority
Records Management Policy dated July 08, 2004, attached hereto.

THAT,

the revised Records Management Policy dated July 08, 2004 shall be effective
immediately.

3

 (Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves a Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) Contract with
Liberty Square to provide Project Based Housing Choice Voucher assistance for sixteen units in
the Liberty Square Development. Liberty Square is a $14 million new construction mixedincome development located in the East Garfield Park community area on Chicago’s West Side.
The development will consist of twelve three-story masonry buildings totaling 66 units that will
contain one, two three and four bedroom rental apartments. The development will contain fiftynine affordable and seven market rate rental units. Project Based statutes and regulations will be
followed to lease the 16 Housing Choice Vouchers units solely to referrals from the CHA
waiting lists. The HAP contract will be for the maximum allowable term of ten years.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-83
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board letter dated June 24 2004,
requesting authorization to enter into a housing assistance payment contract
(“HAP Contract”) with Liberty Square Limited Partnership to provide sixteen
(16) Project-Based Housing Choice Vouchers to the Liberty Square development,
a mixed-income development:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a housing assistance payment contract (“HAP Contract”)
with Liberty Square Limited Partnership to provide Project-Based Housing
Choice Voucher assistance for 16 units in the Liberty Square development, a
mixed-income development, for the maximum allowable term, subject to any
necessary HUD approvals, waivers or exceptions.
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is further authorized to take all
actions and execute all documents necessary to implement the foregoing.

(Item A5)
In partnership with the City of Chicago and the Chicago Historical Society (CHS), CHA
unveiled all of the models in an exhibit hosted by the CHS. The Exhibit, Taking Shape:
Visualizing the CHA’s Plan For Transformation, will remain on display at the CHS until July 25,
2004, it will then be transported to City Hall for a month-long exhibit and subsequently to
various locations in the communities where public housing is undergoing redevelopment. The
CHA Department of Communications approached various organizations, including non-profit
and private organizations prior to selecting CHS as a partner. However, none had the public
exhibit space available or the expertise to interpret the historical significance of the Plan within
the context of Chicago’s history or the ability to design and sponsor a traveling exhibit.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5 approves a contract with the CHS in an amount not to
exceed $183,167.
Chairperson Gilliam recused from voting on Item A5 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-84
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated June 25,
2004, titled “Authorization to enter into contract with the Chicago Historical
Society to provide exhibit services for Taking Shape: The CHA’s Plan for
Transformation exhibit.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratify the entering into a contract with the
CHS for the funding of the CHA’s exhibit Taking Shape: The CHA’s Plan for
Transformation designed in an amount not-to-exceed $183,167.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items A1 through A5 was seconded by Commissioner
Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam (recused from voting on Item A5 only)
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
4

 Nays:

Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in
total.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then presented the
monthly report. Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations & Facilities Committee met on
Wednesday, July 14, 2004, at the 626 Corporate Offices. No presentation was scheduled for this
Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B4, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
In July 2002, he Board approved a contract with Globetrotters Engineering Corporation to
provide OR services for CHA’s Demolition and Make Ready Programs. The Capital
Construction Division (CCD) is currently developing a Request for Proposal to solicit proposals
to cover the CHA’s needs for an OR during the continuance of the Programs. In the interim,
CCD believes that it is important that OR continue without interruption. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B1 approves an increase in Globetrotters contract in the amount of $188,100
to cover the additional costs that will be incurred during this extension. During the final quarters
of 2002 and 2003, CHA’s management made a decision to accelerate demolition to eliminate the
safety risk to residents of the surrounding communities posed by buildings that were emptied
earlier than anticipated. In addition, units at ABLA and Wells are in the process of being
demolished. A lapse in OR service would not only expose individuals to risks, but could also
expose the CHA to additional legal liability. CCD will, therefore, utilize Globetrotters’ OR
services for the demolition at ABLA and Wells. The cost associated with the accelerated
demolition and expected demolition at ABLA and Wells totals $469,120. The resolution for
Item B1 also approves these expenses.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 8, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to amend Contract No. 9881 with Globetrotters
Engineering Corporation for the Provision of Owner’s Representative Services in
the Demolition and Make Ready Programs”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 9881 with Globetrotters
Engineering Corporation to: (1) provide additional Owner’s Representative
services in the Make Ready Program through October 31, 2004 at a cost of
$188,100.00; and (2) ratify the expenditure of $469,120.00 for additional Owner’s
Representative services in the Demolition Program that are already completed,
and the procurement of Owner’s Representative services for ongoing demolition
through November 20, 2004. The new total amount of Contract No. 9881 will be
$1,512,820.00. The new Contract completion dates for Owner’s Representative
services will be October 31, 2004 for the Make Ready Program and November
20, 2004 for the Demolition Program.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves amendment of Contract No. 9879 with d’Escoto, Inc. for the
provision of Owner’s Representative services in the Scattered Sites Rehabilitation Program.
CCD believes that it is important that OR services be continued without interruption in order to
ensure that continuity in this program is maintained. Contract No. 9879 was awarded in July
2002 for OR services to commence on August 2, 2002 and continues until assigned projects are
completed. The original contract amount was $1,175,000. It had previously been amended in
the amount of $288,408 and $97,500. The new total contract amount, including this amendment
will be $1,785,373.

5

 Commissioner Ponce abstained from voting on Item B2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-86
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 14, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to amend Contract No. 9879 with d’Escoto, Inc. for the
provision of Owner’s Representative Services at Scattered Sites Housing”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9879 with d’Escoto, Inc. for the provision of
Owner’s Representative services in the Scattered Sites Rehabilitation Program to
extend the contract for five (5) months ending October 31, 2004 in the amount of
$224,465.00.

(Item B3 and Item B4)
The CHA is currently decentralizing heating equipment and water pumps at Horner to reduce
costs and improve heating service to the residents. As part of this improvement, six new custom
built medium pressure boilers will need to be installed in place of the antiquated equipment
currently being used. Three boilers will be installed at 1943 W. Lake and three will be installed
at 1936 W. Washington. Since the Authority is required by law to provide heat to its residents by
no later than September 15th, the resolution for Item B3 approves ratification of contract award to
Steam Sales Corporation for the supply and delivery of six boilers, custom built by Fulton
Boilers.
(Item B3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 11, 2004,
entitled “Ratification of Procurement of Six (6) Boilers from Steam Sales
Corporation for Henry Horner Homes (IL2-019)” by Non-Competitive Proposal
Process;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies the non-competitive procurement of
six (6) medium pressure boilers to be custom built by Fulton Boilers. The boilers
will be supplied by Steam Sales Corporation at a cost of $28,500.00 per boiler for
a total cost of $171,000.00. The boilers will be installed under a separate IFB at
1943 W. Lake St. and 1936 W. Washington in the Henry Horner Homes.

(Item B4)
The resolution for Item B4 approves ratification of award to Ideal Heating for the installation of
the six boilers at Horner.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 6, 2004
entitled “Ratification of Contract with Ideal Heating Company for the installation
of six (6) boilers at Henry Horner Homes (IL2-019);
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby ratifies a contract with Ideal Heating
Company for the installation of six (6) medium pressure boilers at Henry Horner
Homes (IL2-019) in the amount of $400,333.00. The boilers have been purchased
through a separate procurement. This award is subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
insurance requirements. Installation is to be completed by no later than September
15, 2004.

(Item B5 - Pulled)
Recommendation to award contract for Phase I Site Work and Phases 2 and 3 of the
Modernization of Lowden Homes.
6

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B4 was seconded by
Commissioner Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce (abstained from voting on Item B2 only)
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, July 14, 2004, at the 626 Corporate Office.
Commissioner Young then introduced a Motion for the adoption of Resolution for Item C2
discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item C1 - Deferred)
At the request of Committee Chairperson Sandra Young, Item C1, recommendation to approve
the Minimum Tenant Selection Plan for Mixed-Income/Mixed-Finance Communities was
deferred to the August meeting.
(Item C2)
A Request for Proposal to provide outreach and marketing campaign for leasing of renovated
units in CHA senior buildings was advertised in April 2004. In addition, six firms, including 2
MBE/WBE/DBE firms were directly solicited. After oral presentations, “best and final” offers
were received from the two Respondents. Based upon an evaluation of the written proposals and
oral presentations, the evaluation committee recommended award of contract to Carolyn Grisko
& Associates.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA- 89
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated July 7, 2004,
titled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Carolyn Grisko & Associates,
Inc. to Provide an Outreach and Marketing Campaign for Leasing Units in CHA’s
Renovated Senior Buildings”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Carolyn Grisko & Associates, Inc. for a term
of six (6) months with a six (6) month extension option to provide an outreach
and marketing campaign designed to lease units in CHA’s renovated senior
buildings for a firm fixed fee of $96,850.00 for the base term and an amount notto-exceed $125,050.00 for the extension option.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C2 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
7

 Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

8

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 