MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 19, 2014
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, August 19, 2014 at approximately 8:54 a.m. at the CHA Corporate
Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairwoman Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Jack Markowski
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:

Harriet Johnson
Bridget Reidy

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer, Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal Officer;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairwoman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Sierra, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to discuss
personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or
imminent litigation; review of closed minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 10:15 a.m. and upon
roll call, those present and absent were as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Absent:

Harriet Johnson

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Markowski and seconded by Commissioner Cozzi the Minutes
for the Annual and Regular and Closed meetings of July 15, 2014 were unanimously approved as
submitted.
Chairwoman Scott then introduced the three items discussed in Closed Meeting. Commissioner Reidy
then presented an Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 1 through 3:
(Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-77
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014,
entitled Settlement Agreement in the matter of Boulevard Group, Inc. vs. Chicago
Housing Authority, requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the
amount of $119,557.75 in this matter.
1

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Legal Officer, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $119,557.75 in the above matter
known as Boulevard Group, LLC vs. Chicago Housing Authority.

(Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-78
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014,
entitled Settlement Agreement in the matter of Donnell Outlaw and Levelle Outlaw vs.
Chicago Housing Authority, 12 L 5366, requesting authorization to enter into a
settlement agreement in the amount of $250,000.00, in the matter of Donnell Outlaw
and Levelle Outlaw vs. Chicago Housing Authority, Case No. 12 L 5366.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO
THAT,

HOUSING AUTHORITY

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to enter
into a settlement agreement in the amount of $250,000.00, with the CHA in the matter
of Donnell Outlaw and Levelle Outlaw vs. Chicago Housing Authority, Case No. 12 L
5366.

(Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-79
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014,
entitled Authorization to amend contract for legal services with Johnson, Jones,
Snelling, Gilbert & Davis, P.C. under Contract No. 11242, requesting authorization to
amend the contract in an amount not to exceed $238,700.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Legal Officer, or his designee, to
amend the contract for legal services with Johnson, Jones, Snelling, Gilbert & Davis,
P.C. in an amount not to exceed $238,700 in the Gautreaux, litigation.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Item 1, 2 and 3 was seconded by Commissioner Washington and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Mildred Harris, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services committee, then presented the
Board with a report on her August 4, 2014 visits to the following CHA summer youth program sites:
Learn and Earn Program at the Dawson Technical Institute, 3901 South State Street; the Chicago
Police Department’s Neighborhood Youth Corps at Skinner Elementary School, 1260 West Adams;
and the Financial Literacy and Leadership Institute at DePaul University, 1 East Jackson. At the
conclusion of the report, Chairwoman Scott acknowledged Commissioner Harris for her hard work in
monitoring these programs and reporting back to the Board.
Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Operations Committee, then presented her report.
Per Commissioner Reidy, the Operations Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, August
13, 2014 at approximately 1:05 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices. Present at the meeting were
Commissioners Harris, Markowski, Sierra, Washington and Reidy.
Commissioner Reidy then presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 4 through 7.

2

 (Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves the CHA’s Proposed Moving to Work Annual Plan Amendment
and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to submit said amendment to HUD. A 31-day public
comment period was conducted from June 27 through July 28, 2014. Announcements for the public
comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the Chicago Defender and Chicago Sun-Times
and Hoy newspapers. During the public comment period, both residents and the public alike were able
to submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the information contained in the Proposed
FY2014 MTW Annual Plan Amendment. CHA also held three public hearings during the 31-day
comment period. Prior to finalizing the Proposed FY2014 MTW Annual Plan Amendment, CHA gave
consideration to comments received during the public comment period. CHA has complied with the
requirements of the Amended and Restated MTW Agreement and HUD regulations regarding annual
plans and amendments. The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects
with all applicable Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable federal (HUD)
regulations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-80
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2014 MTW Annual Plan Amendment, attached
hereto;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2014 Moving to Work
Annual Plan Amendment and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the
Board Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary.

THAT

this approval of the Proposed FY2014 MTW Annual Plan Amendment supersedes any
and all conflicting language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans.

THAT

the Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2014 MTW
Annual Plan Amendment to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
upon Board approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s
approval of any and all such changes.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves amendments to the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV)
Administrative Plan, the Public Housing Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy (ACOP) and
the Public Housing Lease to incorporate the Uniform Housing Policy (UHP) Phase I. The UHP Phase
I includes: expanding biennial recertification for all households and establishing triennial recertifications for 100% senior/disabled households with fixed income; simplifying income and asset
verifications; requiring HCV owners/managers to attend annual unit inspection; clarifying definitions
of absent participants, guests & unauthorized occupants; modifying “Choose to Own” Homeownership
Program requirements; modifying Family Self Sufficiency Program Requirements; establishing
smoke-free housing policies in all new public housing properties; updating policies to reflect recent
legislative changes (Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) policy, Medical marijuana policy,
Weapons-free policy); establishing consistent language to permit future demonstration/pilot programs,
with each demonstration/pilot program subject to CHA Board Approval and Improving consistency of
wait list policies. The resolution also approves amendments to the ACOP and PH Lease to establish
flat rent levels at no less than 80% of the HUD Fair Market Rent (FMR), in accordance with a new
HUD requirement as well as to combine Part 1 and Part 2 of the current lease and elements of the lease
rider into one lease document. The amendments to the HCV Administrative Plan are as follows:
correct the poverty threshold for census tracts eligible for a property tax abatement incentive; allow
CHA to use electronic notifications as acceptable form of communication; remove the requirement to
run credit checks on owners prior to HAP contract approval; and remove redundant and procedural
language. A 31-day public comment period was conducted from June 27 through July 28, 2014.
Announcements for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in the Chicago
Defender and Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy newspapers. During the public comment period, both
residents and the public alike were able to submit comments orally and in writing, regarding the
amendments to the HCV Administrative Plan, ACOP, and PH Lease. CHA also held three public
hearings during the 31-day comment period. Prior to finalizing these amendments, the CHA gave
consideration to comments received during the public comment period.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-81
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE AMENDMENTS TO THE HOUSING
3

 CHOICE VOUCHER ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN, THE PUBLIC HOUSING
ADMISSIONS AND CONTINUED OCCUPANCY POLICY (ACOP), AND PUBLIC
HOUSING LEASE “;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his designee, to
approve the amendments to the HCV Administrative Plan, PH Admissions and
Occupancy Policy and PH Lease, attached hereto.

(Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves extending the following existing Property Management contracts at
CHA Developments: Eastlake Management, Group, Inc.; Habitat Management Company; Hispanic
Housing Development Corporation; HJ Russell & Company and Woodlawn Community Development
Corporation for an amount not-to-exceed $2, 486,188. The original Property Management contracts
were approved after a competitive RFP process in 2009. The contract was for a base period of two
years with three 1-year option periods. The third and final option year expires on September 30, 2014
for north side senior and scattered sites west properties; October 31, 2014 for family, the remaining
senior and scattered sites properties and December 31, 2014, for the Mixed Income Acquisition
properties. On May 27, 2014, RFP 14-01343 was released to solicit proposals from well qualified
property management firms experienced in the management and operation of low-income, subsidized,
affordable, and/or public housing properties to provide property management services to CHA’s
residents. The new Property Management contracts will include: management fees based on an
incentive and disincentive structure; fees tied to financial and operational outcomes of property; a 3year base term, with one 2-year option period (for a total of 5 years if option is exercised); flexibility to
implement changes over time to incorporate new elements of Uniform Housing Policy & Plan
Forward. A total of 5 contracts will be awarded, one for each region in the city. In order to allow
more time for the marketing of the RFP and completion of the written proposals, Asset Management
extended the due date for the RFP proposals from July 3, 2014 to September 3, 2014. As a
consequence of the extension of the due date for the proposals, the current contracts will need to be
extended.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-82
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND THE EXISTING PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS AT CHA DEVELOPMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) or his
designee to extend the existing professional service agreements with Eastlake
Management Group, Inc., The Habitat Company, Hispanic Housing Development
Corporation, H.J. Russell & Company, and Woodlawn Community Development
Corporation for property management services for CHA’s north side senior and
scattered sites west properties from October 1, 2014 to January 31, 2015; for family
properties and the remaining senior and scattered sites properties from November 1,
2014 to January 31, 2015 and for the Mixed Income Acquisition properties from
January 1, 2015 to January 31, 2015, for an amount not to exceed $2,486,188 in
property management fees.

(Item 7)
Pursuant to Goldberg v Kelly 397 US 254, 24 CFR 982.555 et.al, and the CHA Administrative Plan,
the Authority must offer informal hearings for certain CHA determinations relating to the individual
circumstance of a participant family which may affect the status of their vouchers. Prior to 2011, the
Informal Hearing Program (IHP) was managed by one of CHA's contracted vendors. This model
proved problematic in that the vendor was not holding a sufficient number of hearings in a timely
manner, and it was difficult to determine whether the hearing officer was, as HUD requires, someone
other than a person who had made or approved the decision under review. As a result a backlog of
cases went unaddressed for approximately 18 months; HAP payments were continuing to be made on
behalf of non-compliant families during the lengthy waiting period for hearings; and a significant
number of the informal hearing decisions appealed by CHA HCV program participants to the Circuit
Court of Cook County were being reversed, calling into question the integrity of the CHA HCV
informal hearing process and program. In January 2011, the CHA IHP was brought in-house and in
April 2011, 15 attorneys were recruited as temporary employees to act as HCVP hearing officers and
presenters for the IHP on an hourly basis. The new program model proved successful but costly. Then
in October 1, 2012, the program model was revised. The hearing officers and presenters were made
independent contractors and were given contracts for a one-year term with a one-year option on a flat4

 fee per case basis, which resulted in a 2/3 reduction in cost per case. In October 1, 2013, the CHA
exercised the contracts' option year with the hearing officers and presenters. The current contracts will
expire on September 30, 2014. The Office of the General Counsel (OGC) anticipates it will offer new
contracts to the current hearing officers and presenters, but also reserves the right to not offer one or
more of the contracts. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 7 approves award of contracts with Illinois
licensed attorneys to act as Hearing Officers and Presenters for the CHA HCV Informal Hearing
Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-83
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH ILLINOIS
LICENSED ATTORNEYS TO ACT AS HEARING OFFICERS AND PRESENTERS
FOR THE CHA HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER INFORMAL HEARING
PROGRAM.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into contracts up to 15 months with a one – year option with Illinois licensed
attorneys to act as hearing officers and presenters in an aggregate amount of $1,320,000
for the initial term of October 1, 2014 – December 31, 2015 for the CHA Housing
Choice Voucher Informal Hearing Program.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 4, 5, 6 and 7 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy
R. Sierra
Z. Scott
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Real Estate Development Committee, then presented
his report. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Real Estate Development Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, August 13, 2014 at approximately 2:10 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices.
Present at the meeting were Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi, Harris and Markowski. Present also, but
not counted for the quorum was Commissioner Washington. Per Commissioners Markowski,
committee members, discussed, voted and approved the resolutions for Items 8, 9 and 9A.
On behalf of the Real Estate Committee members, Commissioner Markowski then presented an
Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 8 and 9 and 9A.
(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves submittal of a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents
to HUD; submits a request to HUD to amend the Contract for Redevelopment for the Madden Wells
Phase I and II rental sites; commits CHA funds not to exceed $8,000,000 to support the development
of the Quad Communities Arts and Recreation Center; executes a loan agreement and borrow bridge
funds not to exceed $8,000,000 from the BMO Harris Bank N.A. line of credit facility; and execute
and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing. The Ida B. Wells Homes, Clarence Darrow Homes, Wells Extension, and
Madden Park Homes commonly known as Madden/Wells are a part of CHA’s plan to transform
blighted neighborhoods into vibrant communities. These public housing developments were originally
situated on 94 acre of land and included over 3,200 public housing units. On November 11, 2000, the
CHA received a FY2000 HOPE VI Revitalization Program grant award of $35,000,000 to leverage
more than $240,000,000 for the redevelopment of the Madden/Wells development sites. To date, CHA
and its development partner have completed 863 new housing units in what is now known as the
Oakwood Shores mixed income development. The proposed Quad Communities Arts and Recreation
Center (QCARC) will provide a necessary amenity for residents living at the Oakwood Shores mixed
income development as well as the surrounding Oakland and Douglas neighborhoods. It will offer
5

 high quality arts and recreation programs for youth, adults, seniors and families as well as programs
specifically targeted to the needs of the public housing residents. The new facility will contain
approximately 30,000 square feet of athletic, recreational, and arts spaces, that include an indoor
basketball court and swimming pool. Currently, the Oakwood Boulevard Associates, the Chicago Park
District, the City of Chicago, the CHA, the Quad Communities Development Corp., and community
stakeholders are working to develop the QCARC on a parcel of land at the southwest corner of 35th
Street and Cottage Grove Avenue owned by the City, CPS and/or Chicago Park District. Upon
completion, the new center will be operated by the Chicago Park District. Oakwood Boulevard
Associates, LLC (OBA) is the selected developer for the Madden/Wells/Darrow Phase I and Phase II
development. The OBA members are The Community Builders, Inc. (TCB), Granite OBA Madden
Wells, LLC and UJIMA, Inc. TCB and Granite Development (Master) Corp. are the sponsors of the
obligations under the redevelopment agreement. Subject to HUD approval, the CHA seeks to amend
the Phase I and Phase II development agreements with OBA to include this community facility. The
development team for the recreation center will consist of a partnership between an affiliate of OBA
and the Chicago Park District. Efforts are currently underway to secure financing and assemble the
site. Construction commencement is planned for the fall of 2014. The total estimated development
budget for the QCARC development is approximately $19,849,596 and includes the CHA loan of
approximately $8,000,000 in funding, subject to HUD approval. Other additional project sources
include approximately $5,400,941 of Tax Increment Financing (TIF), $5,459,546 in New Market Tax
Credit (NMTC) equity, and $989,109 in other owner equity and soft debt. The CHA loan will have to
be funded at the time of the financing closing due to the NMTC financing structure. The disbursement
of capital funds are not allowed until HUD has issued its final approval of the executed financing and
other documents submitted to HUD for approval. Therefore, CHA intends to borrow the funds to
bridge the financing of the $8,000,000 CHA loan by utilizing the BMO Harris Bank line of credit
facility. The CHA will execute a loan agreement subject to mutually agreed upon terms, conditions,
representations and warranties. CHA will not disburse funds and/or close this transaction unless and
until it has received a preliminary commitment from HUD for the use of a corresponding amount of
federal capital funds for this project. Upon issuance of HUD’s final approval letter for the construction
of the QCARC development, CHA will repay the principal due on the borrowed funds from the line of
credit facility and any interest will be repaid with non-federal funds.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-84
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
entitled “Authorization to: 1) Submit a Development Proposal and Evidentiary
documents to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD); 2) Submit a request to HUD to amend the Contract for Redevelopment for the
Madden Wells Phase I and II rental sites; 3) Commit Chicago Housing Authority funds
not to exceed $8,000,000 to support the development of the Quad Communities Arts and
Recreation Center; 4) Execute a loan agreement and borrow bridge funds not to exceed
$8,000,000 from the BMO Harris Bank N.A. line of credit facility; and 5) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to:
1) Submit a Development Proposal and Evidentiary documents to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); 2) Submit a
request to HUD to amend the Contract for Redevelopment for the Madden Wells Phase I
and II rental sites; 3) Commit Chicago Housing Authority funds not to exceed
$8,000,000 to support the development of the Quad Communities Arts and Recreation
Center; 4) Execute a loan agreement and borrow bridge funds not to exceed $8,000,000
from the BMO Harris Bank N.A. line of credit facility; and 5) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 9)
The resolution for Item 9 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to approve the
following three Development Teams for subsidized family housing unit delivery: Bickerdike
Redevelopment Corporation; Hispanic Housing Development Corporation and KMW
Communities, LLC and KLEO Life Center (JV). The resolution for Item 9 also amends
Resolution 2013-CHA-115 to expand the funding authorization for the previously committed
$72,000,000 approved for the Real Estate Acquisition Program (REAP) to include projects
6

 submitted under the mixed finance housing development method to correct an error in the
original resolution’s authorization limitation. Similar to the original resolution’s authorization,
CHA will report quarterly to the Board all funding commitments made under the amended
authorization. The goal of the pre-qualified developer team (PDT) procurement is to build on
CHA’s experience of working with private development teams and owners to supply quality
housing that enables low-income families to maximize their potential for long-term economic
success. The PDT procurement also provides a method to prequalify developers and creates
opportunities for the CHA to provide capital loans with per unit operating subsidy for new
construction and rehabilitation of multi-family, mixed income and mixed use projects that
directly benefit CHA residents. The CHA has refined the scope and program features of its PDT
procurement, to engage development partners for the acquisition, development and management
of mixed income developments and family units with a preference in investing in Opportunity
and General Areas. CHA’s primary objective is to provide the highest quality housing units for
low-income families within diverse and healthy communities. The selected respondents will be
issued a “Letter of Qualification” and have two years from the date of that letter to submit
proposals to the CHA. CHA may provide financial investment or enter into long term leases for
the units, subject to Board, HUD, or other necessary approvals.
Commissioner Harris recused from voting on Item 9 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE THREE (3) DEVELOPMENT TEAMS
FOR SUBSIDIZED FAMILY HOUSING UNIT DELIVERY AND TO AMEND TO
RESOLUTION 2013-CHA-115 TO EXPAND THE FUNDING AUTHORIZATION
FOR THE REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION PROGRAM TO INLCUDE MIXED
FINANCE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO
EXCEED $72,000,000.”
THEREFORE,
THAT

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve the below three (3) Development Teams for subsidized family housing unit
delivery and to amend Resolution 2013-CHA-115 to expand the funding authorization
for the Real Estate Acquisition Program to include mixed finance housing development
projects in an amount not to exceed $72,000,000.
MIXED FINANCE DEVELOPERS
Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation
Hispanic Housing Development Corporation
KMW Communities, LLC and KLEO Life Center (JV)

(9A)
The resolution for Item 9A authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to approve the following three
Development Team of the Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation for subsidized
family housing unit delivery. The goal of the pre-qualified developer team (PDT) procurement is to
build on CHA’s experience of working with private development teams and owners to supply quality
housing that enables low-income families to maximize their potential for long-term economic success.
The PDT procurement also provides a method to prequalify developers and creates opportunities for
the CHA to provide capital loans with per unit operating subsidy for new construction and
rehabilitation of multi-family, mixed income and mixed use projects that directly benefit CHA
residents. The CHA has refined the scope and program features of its PDT procurement, to engage
development partners for the acquisition, development and management of mixed income
developments and family units with a preference in investing in Opportunity and General Areas.
CHA’s primary objective is to provide the highest quality housing units for low-income families within
diverse and healthy communities. The selected respondents will be issued a “Letter of Qualification”
and have two years from the date of that letter to submit proposals to the CHA. CHA may provide
financial investment or enter into long term leases for the units, subject to Board, HUD, or other
necessary approvals. Similarly the newly selected development team procured under this RFQ, No.
14–01301 submitted its qualifications and commitment letters to include mixed income/finance
development units. Pre-Qualification status is not required to submit acquisition proposals to the
CHA.
Commissioner Markowski recused from voting on Item 9A only.

7

 RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-86
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO APPROVE ONE (1) DEVELOPMENT TEAM FOR
SUBSIDIZED FAMILY HOUSING UNIT DELIVERY
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve the below one (1) Development Team for subsidized family housing unit
delivery.
MIXED FINANCE DEVELOPER
Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 8, 9 and 9A was seconded by Commissioner Reidy and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris (Recused from voting on Item 9 only)
Jack Markowski (Recused from voting on Item 9A only)
Bridget Reidy
Z. Scott
R. Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Committee Chair Mark Cozzi, then presented the report for the Finance & Personnel Committee. Per
Commissioner Cozzi, the Finance & Personnel Committee meeting was held on Wednesday, August
13, 2014, at approximately 2:25 p.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices, 60 E. Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft.
After presentation by staff, discussion and vote on Items 10 and 11, commissioners adjourned to closed
meeting to discuss Item 12. Commissioners then returned to open session and approved Item 12. Item
12 was also discussed in today’s closed meeting.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Cozzi then presented an Omnibus
Motion for the approval of Items 10 and 11 and 12.
(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 approves an amendment to Resolution No. 2013-CHA-91 whereby the
Chief Executive Officer has authority to amend the Chicago Housing Authority’s Revolving Loan
Facility from BMO Harris Bank N.A. to expand its borrowing option to include borrowing under an
unsecured basis. The Board of Commissioners previously approved, under Resolution No. 2013-CHA91, CHA obtaining a $20 million secured revolving loan facility from BMO Harris Bank N.A. to
support the CHA Unit Acquisition Program. CHA now seeks an amendment to Resolution No. 2013CHA-91, to enable CHA to participate in other non-residential related Plan Forward community
development initiatives by extending its credit facility to include borrowing under an unsecured loan
option. Both loan facilities/borrowing components (secured and unsecured) are for a total amount notto-exceed $20 million and a maximum term of 60 months. The interest rate for the requested
“unsecured” loan facility option is not-to-exceed 2% over prime rate at time of borrowing. Funds will
be borrowed or line accessed only when needed for either the CHA Unit Acquisition Program or CHA
Plan Forward Community Development Activities. All transactions and related financing terms along
with specific collateral identification in connection with this credit facility shall be subject to CHA
Board of Commissioners approval. In addition to CHA Board of Commissioners approval, HUD
approval will be obtained prior to pledging collateral sourced with Federal cash, securities or land
obtained with Federal funds. BMO Harris Bank N.A. is the CHA’s primary cash management bank
and has consistently provided best practice service delivery in a full range of banking products and
services. BMO Harris Bank’s commitment to Plan Forward is evident in their loan commitment for
expanding the existing revolving credit facility as the new credit terms contemplate a wide range of
options with respect to collateral/terms and pricing. The CHA’s plan for neighborhood creation and
community development can be greatly enhanced by exercising appropriate financing options
contained in the Bank’s loan commitment.
8

 RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 19th, 2014
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND RESOLUTION NO. 2013-CHA-91 (BMO
HARRIS BANK N.A. LINE OF CREDIT FACILITY) TO EXPAND SECURING
LOAN(S) UNDER EITHER A SECURED/UNSECURED OPTION TO SUPPORT
THE CHA PLAN FORWARD OR OTHER RELATED NON-RESIDENTIAL
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES ”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes an amendment of Resolution No 2013-CHA91 (BMO Harris Bank N.A. Line of Credit Facility to expand securing loans under
either a Secured or Unsecured Revolving Loan Facility from BMO Harris Bank N.A.
This loan facility borrowing is not-to-exceed a total amount of $20 million and a term
of 60 months. The interest rate is not-to-exceed 2% over Prime for unsecured lending
at the time of borrowing. The interest rate is not to exceed 3.5% for secured lending at
the borrowing. Funds will be borrowed or line accessed only when needed for either
the CHA Unit Acquisition Program or CHA Plan Forward Community Development
Activities. All transactions and related financing terms along with specific collateral
identification in connection with this credit facility shall be subject to CHA Board of
Commissioners approval. In addition to CHA Board of Commissioner’s approval,
HUD approval will be obtained prior to pledging collateral sourced with Federal cash,
securities or land obtained with Federal funds. The Chief Executive Officer or his
designee is hereby authorized to execute all documents as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 11)
The resolution for item 11 approves a cooperative purchasing arrangement with the City of Chicago
(COC) to utilize its contract between the City of Chicago and System Development Integration (SDI)
for the implementation of the Sum Total Time and Attendance Solution in an amount not-to-exceed
$461,230 for a base term of up to three (3) years with two (2) one (1) year options. CHA currently
utilizes Lawson Human Resources / Payroll system where employee time is individually entered.
Time is entered by employees and approved by managers via electronic workflow. If data entry errors
are made, paper based forms are prepared and submitted for manual corrections. Implementing a
state-of-the-art time and attendance system will provide CHA with real-time employee time tracking
and monitoring capabilities, as well as reduce the manual data entry required to process payroll biweekly. COC entered into the SDI contract on or about December 1, 2010, with the base term set to
extend through November 30, 2013. The COC exercised the first option year on or about December 1,
2013, leaving one additional option year remaining under the SDI Agreement. The SDI Agreement
contained a sister agency participation clause, reserving the right for various COC sister agencies,
including the CHA, to participate under the Agreement’s terms and conditions. After CHA evaluation
of the SDI system and a request to utilize the SDI Agreement with a scope tailored to the CHA, the
vendor confirmed its agreement to provide CHA with the same favorable pricing, terms and conditions
as the COC receives under the SDI Agreement and to implement the SumTotal solution for the CHA.
Use of an automated time and attendance system is consistent with the City’s and sister agencies’
workforce management practices.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter August 13, 2014 entitled
“AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
ARRANGEMENT WITH THE CITY OF CHICAGO TO UTILIZE ITS CONTRACT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF CHICAGO AND SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
INTEGRATION FOR THE SUPPLY AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
SUMTOTAL TIME AND ATTENDANCE SOLUTION IN THE AMOUNT NOT-TOEXCEED $461,230 FOR A BASE TERM OF UP TO THREE (3) YEARS WITH TWO
(2) ONE (1) YEAR OPTIONS”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into a cooperative purchasing arrangement with the City of Chicago to utilize the
contract between the City of Chicago and System Development Integration for the
supply and implementation of the SumTotal Time and Attendance solution for the
Chicago Housing Authority in the amount not-to-exceed $461,230 for a base term of up
to three (3) years with two (2) one (1) year options.
9

 (Item 12)
The resolution for Item 12 ratifies the following actions: offer of employment to applicant for Program
Analyst; offer of employment to applicant for Senior Advisor; offer of employment to applicant for
Senior Procurement Specialist; offer of employment/termination for Video Analyst; offer of
employment to applicant for Assistant Director, Clinical Services; equity adjustment for Chief
Engineer; equity adjustment for Engineer; termination of employment for three employees and
promotion of employee to Data Quality Analyst.

RESOLUTION NO. 2014–CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13, 2014,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 8, 9 and 10 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Bridget Reidy (Recused on Item 9 only)
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the Regular board meeting of August 19, 2014, was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

10

Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority

 