MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
October 18, 2016
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, October 18, 2016, at approximately 12:05 p.m. at the Humboldt Park
Fieldhouse, 1400 North Sacramento in Chicago, IL.
Chairman John Hooker commenced the meeting by introducing Meghan Harte, who was recently
appointed by Mayor Rahm Emanuel to complete the unexpired term of Commissioner Bridget Reidy.
Per Chairman Hooker, Commissioner Harte’s term will expire in 2018. Commissioner Harte is the
Executive Director of the Chicago Office of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation better known as
LISC. Prior to joining LISC, Commissioner Harte served as Mayor Emanuel’s and Mayor Daley’s
Deputy Chief of Staff. Previous to working in the Mayor’s office, Commissioner Harte was Vice
President at AECOM and had also served as the Managing Director of Resident Services for the Chicago
Housing Authority. Commissioner Harte was warmly welcome with applause by the Board, CHA staff
and the public at large.
Chairman Hooker then called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington

Absent:

Mark Cozzi

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting at 10:00 a.m. today
at the Humboldt Park Fieldhouse. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the following
committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer and Harris. Present also but not
counted for the quorum were Chairman Hooker, Vice-Chairman Chico and Commissioner Washington.
Committee members then voted to adjourn to closed session to discuss certain audit reviews and
investigatory matters. Committee members then returned to open session and discussed, voted and
recommended for approval the following five item.
1

 (Item 1)
On July 27, 2016, the CHA received official written notice of a $796,565 grant award from HUD’s
Family Self Sufficiency (FSS) Program for Fiscal Year 2016. The grant will fund 15 FSS coordinator
salaries from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017. HUD’s award letter to the CHA required
that the CHA execute and return the Grant Agreement within 72 hours of receipt. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 1 ratifies the acceptance of HUD’s grant award. This funding provides the
continuation of employment of FSS program coordinators, who will ensure that HCV and Public
Housing residents are linked to the supportive services they need to achieve self-sufficiency; such as
training opportunities, job placement organizations and local employers. The purpose of the FSS
program is to promote the development of local strategies to coordinate the use of assistance under the
HCV and Public Housing programs with public and private resources to enable participating families to
increase earned income, reduce or eliminate the need for welfare assistance, and make progress toward
economic independence and self-sufficiency. The FSS program provides critical tools that can be used
by communities to support welfare reform and help families develop new skills that will lead to
economic self-sufficiency.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-110
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO RATIFY
THE ACCEPTANCE OF A GRANT AWARD FROM THE UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (“HUD”) IN
THE AMOUNT OF $796,565 UNDER HUD’S FAMILY SELF SUFFICIENCY
PROGRAM.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer’s acceptance
of a grant award from the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”) in the amount of $796,565, under HUD’s Family Self
Sufficiency (FSS) Program.

(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement between BMO Harris Bank
N.A. and the CHA. In January 2016, the CHA Board of Commissioners authorized the acquisition of
Presbyterian Homes (41 units located at 3801 N. Pine Grove, 37 units located at 416 W. Barry and 33 units
located at 1950 W. Devon, collectively referred to as Presbyterian Homes) under Resolution No. 2016-CHA11. This original financing was an unsecured loan for $20,000,000 for a term of 12 months with an interest
rate not to exceed 3.5%. This loan allowed the CHA the flexibility to draw and pay back funds on a revolving
facility. The First Amendment to the Credit Agreement reduces the current interest rate to 2% and any unused
portion of the credit facility will be subject to a commitment fee of 0.25% annually.

WHEREAS,

Resolution No. 2016-CHA-111
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND
THE TERM LOAN APPROVED UNDER RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-11
(ACQUISITION OF PRESBYTERIAN HOMES) AND AUTHORIZE THE
CONVERSION TO A REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY.
2

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the amendment to Resolution No.
2016-CHA-11 (Acquisition of Presbyterian Homes) and Authorizes the Conversion to
a Revolving Credit Facility.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves an amendment to Resolution No. 2014-CHA-87 to expand the use of the
funds borrowed under the BMO Harris Bank line of credit to include providing loans which support
residential and community development activities and to increase the loan facility total amount to $50 Million.
Funds will be borrowed or line accessed only when needed for authorized uses as explicitly approved by the
Board of Commissioners. In addition, all transactions and related financing terms along with specific
collateral identified in connection with the use of the credit facility shall be subject to CHA Board of
Commissioners approval. To the extent applicable, in addition to CHA Board of Commissioners approval,
HUD approval will be obtained prior to pledging collateral sourced with Federal cash or securities. BMO
Harris Bank N.A. is the CHA’s primary cash management bank and has consistently provided best practice
service delivery in a full range of banking products and services. The CHA’s plan for neighborhood creation
and community development can be greatly enhanced by exercising appropriate financing options available
and offered through BMO Harris Bank. Under Resolution No. 2013-CHA-91, approved on October 15, 2013,
CHA Board authorization was granted allowing CHA to obtain a $20 Million secured revolving line of credit
from the Bank. Subsequently, under Resolution No. 2014-CHA-87, passed August 19, 2014, CHA Board
authorization was again sought and granted to expand the secured revolving loan facility option to include
borrowing under an unsecured basis and to broaden the use of such facility to be used for other non-residential
community development initiatives. The terms and conditions for all borrowing remained the same (interest
rate caps at 2% over prime rate and a maximum term of 60 months).

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-112
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-CHA-87 (BMO HARRIS BANK LINE OF CREDIT
FACILITY) TO EXPAND THE AUTHORIZED USE TO INCLUDE PROVIDING
LOANS
WHICH
SUPPORT
RESIDENTIAL
AND
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES, AND TO INCREASE THE TOTAL AMOUNT
OF THE LOAN FACILITY TO $50 MILLION.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves an amendment to Resolution No.
2014-CHA-87 (BMO Harris Bank Line of Credit Facility) to expand the authorized
use to include providing loans which support residential and community
development activities, and/or have other community benefit for CHA and to
increase the credit facility total amount from $20 Million to $50 Million.

3

 (Item 4)
In 2001, HUD granted CHA an indefinite waiver to utilize insurance brokers to procure insurance
coverage. Mesirow Financial, the CHA’s insurance broker for Employee Health Plan Benefits, directly
solicited requests for coverage from health insurance providers for Medical, Dental, and Vision.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item 4 approves award of contracts to Blue Cross Blue Shields, Guardian
Unum, Davis Vision and Ameriflex for a total calculated amount of $8,781,644 based on the current
employee census, for a one-year policy term from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 to
provide Employee Benefit related coverages. Significant claim payments made in the current policy
period resulted in an increase in cost of 7.3% (below market trend of 10.5%). The 2017 rate for each
participant will remain constant for the policy period.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA- 113
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Purchase
Employee Benefits Insurance Coverage”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
authorize the award of contracts to the below listed contractors for a calculated
amount of $8,781,644 based on the current employee census, for a one-year policy
term from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 to provide Employee Benefit
related coverages as follows: (1) Medical coverage written through BlueCross
BlueShield in the amount not-to-exceed $6,748,558; (2) Dental coverage written
through Guardian in an amount not-to-exceed $310,370; (3) Life/AD&D written
through Guardian in an amount not-to-exceed $100,698; (4) Short Term Disability
written through Guardian in an amount not-to-exceed $71,043; (5) Long Term Care
written through Unum in an amount not-to-exceed $55,983; (6) Long Term Disability
written through Guardian in an amount not-to-exceed $54,983; (6) Vision written
through Davis Vision in an amount not-to-exceed $41,889; (7) Flexible Spending
Account administration through Ameriflx in an amount not to exceed $12,900; and
(8) Retiree Life written through Guardian in an amount not-to-exceed $2,889.
Additionally, the projected increase for new FTE’s is: (1) Medical coverage written
through BlueCross BlueShield in the amount not-to-exceed $1,306,530; (2) Dental
coverage written through Guardian in an amount not-to-exceed $76,320.

(Item 5)
In April 2016, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal for Property Management Disaster Recovery
Services. Of the five vendors who submitted proposals, two vendors were deemed non-responsive for
failure to cure several submittal requirements. The remaining three firms were evaluated and based on
the recommendation of the evaluation committee JC Restoration, Inc. was deemed the most responsive
and responsible vendor. The resolution for Item 5 approves award of contract to JC Restoration, Inc. for
a two-year base period from November 1, 2016 through October 31, 2018; and two one-year option
periods, to provide Property Management Disaster Recovery Services. The aggregate not-to-exceed
amount, including the two-year base term and two one-year option periods, is $2,400,000.00. The
Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer to use his discretion to exercise the options.
The Chief Executive Officer shall not exercise more than one option in any year. Any exercise of this
authority will be in compliance with the emergency or exigent actions procurement policy. J.C.
4

 Restoration, Inc. will provide Property Management Disaster Recovery and mitigation services related to
insurance-covered events, such as fire and water damage, and extreme power outages which will result
in reduce down-time for damaged units.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA- 114
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Award Contract
for Property Management Disaster Recovery Services”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
approve the award of a contract to JC Restoration, Inc. for a two-year base term from
November 1, 2016 through October 31, 2018; and two (2) one-year option periods, to
provided Property Management Disaster Recovery Services with an aggregate not-toexceed amount of $2,400,000.00.
Any exercise of this authority will be in compliance with the emergency or exigent
actions procurement policy.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 through 5 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Vice-Chairman Chico then presented the report of the Tenant Services Committee. Per Commissioner
Chico, the Tenant Services Committee held its monthly meeting earlier today. Commissioner Chico
chaired the meeting and the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Harris,
Harte and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker and Commissioners Brewer and Markowski were
also present they were not counted toward the quorum. Committee member then discussed, voted and
recommended for approval the four items appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Chico presented an Omnibus Motion for
approval of Items 6 through 9.
5

 (Item 6)
The resolution for Item 6 approves the execution of the first, second and third one-year option terms of
Contract No. 11521 with After School Matters (ASM) in an amount not-to-exceed $300,000.00 for each
option year to provide pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship youth employment opportunities for CHA
youth 14-18 years of age. The aggregate not-to-exceed amount, including the two-year base term and
three one-year option periods, is $1,500,000.00. Each option year term shall be exercised when the prior
contract term has expired, and may only be exercised individually. ASM’s program model is designed to
provide all eligible Chicago teens, ages 14-18, with after school and out-of-school time programs. CHA
youth are able to apply for any of ASM’s 1,000 plus program offerings each year (spring, summer, and
fall sessions). During the two-year base term, more than 7,000 ASM slots have been filled by CHA
youth; this represents nearly 18% of all ASM participants during this time. During the 2017 contract
term, CHA will provide funding to support CHA youth in 261 ASM slots. However, based on recent
program history, it is anticipated that more than 3,000 ASM slots will be utilized by CHA youth. ASM
funds year-round programs that provide transferrable skills that youth will be able to use in both the
classroom and as they move into the workplace. ASM utilizes a three-tiered program model with preapprenticeship, apprenticeship and advance apprenticeship cohorts, each requiring applicants to possess
a great level of skill in the subject area upon entry into the program. Programs fall into one (1) of five (5)
content areas: arts, technology, communications, science or sports and are created in partnership with a
vast network of schools, neighborhoods, government agencies and community based organizations.
ASM offers three (3) terms throughout the calendar year, providing youth engaged year round with over
180 hours of structured programming.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-115
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO
AUTHORIZE OPTION YEAR TERMS OF THE CONTRACT WITH AFTER
SCHOOL MATTERS”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve the execution of the first, second and third one-year option
terms of Contract No. 11521 with After School Matters in an amount not-toexceed $300,000.00 for each option year to provide pre-apprenticeship and
apprenticeship youth employment opportunities for CHA youth 14-18 years of
age. The aggregate not-to exceed amount is $1,500,000.00. Each option year
term shall be exercised when the prior contract term has expired, and may only
be exercised individually.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago Park
District (CPD for a one-year base term from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, to provide
year-round Park District programs for CHA youth residents and tenants in an amount not to exceed
$550,000.00. Since 2002, CHA and CPD have collaborated to provide year-round Park District
programs for CHA youth who otherwise may not otherwise be able to participate due to cost. CPD
6

 programs provide youth with age-appropriate activities, while assisting working parents by offering safe
and constructive programs for children during out-of-school time. This IGA offers reduced program fees
for CHA youth for year-round voucher programs (e.g., Summer Camp, Vacation Camps, etc.) and the
remaining program fees are split between CHA and CPD. CHA and CPD will continue to collaborate to
bring supplemental programming to Park Districts near CHA developments (e.g., Windy City Hoops,
Counselor in Training Program, Junior Bears football, etc.). In 2016, more than 2,800 CHA youth have
used a voucher to participate in Park District camp programs; more than 3,200 CHA youth used a
voucher in 2015.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-116
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “Authorization to Execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District for a oneyear base term from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, to provide yearround Park District programs for Chicago Housing Authority youth residents and
tenants in an amount not to exceed $550,000.00.

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago
Department of Family & Support Services (DFSS) for a two-year base term from January 1, 2017
through December 31, 2018, to provide support services for CHA households in an amount not to
exceed $3,164,000.00. Since 2008, CHA has partnered with DFSS to provide various support services
for CHA households. CHA and DFSS will continue to collaborate to provide services in the areas of
early childhood development, out-of-school time for youth, senior citizen support, family programming
and homelessness prevention. During the term of the current IGA up to the second quarter, over 450
participants have received services and 114,462 nutritious meals have been served for older adults
residing at CHA properties.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-117
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “Authorization to Execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family & Support
Services”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family &
Support Services for a two-year base term from January 1, 2017 through December
31, 2018, to provide support services for Chicago Housing Authority households in an
amount not to exceed $3,164,000.00.
7

 (Item 9)
A Funding Agreement between CHA and the CAC is required by HUD for funding provided by a housing
authority for a duly-elected resident council. The purpose of the CAC, as the jurisdiction-wide resident
council for CHA Residents, is to act as a vehicle for resident participation and to represent the interests of
the residents of CHA family and senior buildings. The role of a resident council is to improve the quality
of life and resident satisfaction, and to participate in self-help initiatives to create a positive living
environment for families living in public housing. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 9 approves the
Funding Agreement with the Central Advisory Council for a one-year term from January 1, 2017 through
December 31, 2017 in an amount not to exceed $1,049,530.00. The Funding Agreement will be used to
fund tenant participation activities (stipends, operating expenses, etc.) and will also include: the Section 3
Small Grants Program and other special programs and initiatives provided directly by the CAC that
benefit CHA public housing residents.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA- 118
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “Authorization to enter into a Funding
Agreement with the Central Advisory Council”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a Funding Agreement with the Central Advisory Council for a base term
from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 in an amount not to exceed
$1,049,530.00.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 6 through 9 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members
were present as well: Commissioners Harte, Markowski and Washington. Although Chairman Hooker
and Commissioners Chico and Harris were also present they were not counted toward the quorum.
8

 Committee member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the four items appearing on the
agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Item 10 through 13.
(Item 10)
In July 2016, the CHA advertised a Request for Proposal to qualify vendors to participate in CHA’s environmental
remediation services Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) program. A total of three proposals were received,
evaluated and scored based on the stated evaluation criteria. Based on the recommendation of the Evaluation Committee, the
resolution for Item 10 approves award of contracts to Enviroplus, Inc., Tecnica Environmental Services and The

Luse Company to provide authority-wide environmental remediation services at various CHA
properties. Each contract will be for an amount not-to-exceed $2,000,000.00, with a base term of two (2)
years and two (2) one-year renewal options. The total aggregate amount of the three (3) contracts is a
not-to-exceed amount of $6,000,000.00. These contractors will provide asbestos, lead based paint
abatement and mold remediation services in accordance with current laws and regulations governing
such removal and disposal at various CHA properties that will be identified in task orders. The CHA’s
current environmental remediation Indefinite Delivery and Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) program and its
associated contracts expire on November 6, 2016 and the CHA is in need of continuing these services. as
environmental concerns exist in a majority of the CHA’s dwelling and non-dwelling properties.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-119
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “Recommendation to Award Contracts
for Authority-wide Environmental Remediation Services”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
enter into three (3) Indefinite Delivery and Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts to
Enviroplus, Inc., Tecnica Environmental Services and The Luse Company to provide
authority-wide environmental remediation services at various CHA properties. Each
contract will be for an amount not-to-exceed $2,000,000.00, with a base term of two
(2) years and two (2) one-year renewal options. The total aggregate amount of the
three (3) contracts is a not-to-exceed amount of $6,000,000.00. The Chief Executive
Officer is authorized to use his discretion to exercise the renewal options. Any
options exercised by the Chief Executive Officer must be exercised individually and
within the aggregate amount of approved funding.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements for each assigned task order.

(Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 approves a Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Ickes Master Developer JV
LLC or other related entity in an amount not to exceed $2,924,727 and approves a Master Planning
Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Ickes Master Developer JV LLC or other related entity in an
amount not to exceed $665,393. The Harold Ickes Homes (Ickes) development was originally situated
on approximately 18 acres within the near south side community area of the city of Chicago (City) and
consisted of eleven buildings with 1006 total units. The demolition of all buildings was completed in
9

 2010. It is the intent of CHA in collaboration with the City Department of Planning and Development
(DPD) to implement a smart growth, public-private revitalizing plan that will create a vibrant Harold
Ickes community. The Ickes development site is very conveniently located at a crossroads of many
transportation opportunities. The CHA revitalization program at Harold Ickes Homes shall create a
mixed-income, mixed-use development that will be constructed over multiple on-site phases and will
consist of approximately 877 total residential units and approximately 66,500 square feet of commercial
space. Phase 1 will include 7 new buildings, between 23rd and 24th Street to the north and south and
Dearborn and State Street to the west and east. There will be approximately 319 total units in Phase I: 94
CHA, 58 affordable, and 167 market rate, with 297 for rental and 22 for homeownership. The buildings
will be a mix of low-rise and mid-rise.
The proposed $665,393 loan for master planning and
$2,294,727 predevelopment loan for Phase 1 will not exceed 75% of eligible Ickes third party
predevelopment costs consistent with HUD cost control guidelines. The total Phase 1 predevelopment
loan budget is $4,308,584 ($235,796 commercial) and the Developer will cover the remaining 25%
costs. This Phase 1 loan will help fund predevelopment costs including architectural and engineering
design development and construction documents, permit fees, technical reports, surveys and related real
estate services. All phase 1 predevelopment loan funds will be repaid to CHA at transaction closings.
These repayment funds will then become available for remaining redevelopment phases, with the initial
predevelopment loan acting as a revolving predevelopment loan for future phases. A joint venture
consisting of The Community Builders (TCB) and McCaffery Interests (MI), LLC, was selected as the
Master Development team and approved by the CHA Board in June 2015 for the revitalization of the
Harold Ickes Homes. Ickes Master Developer JV LLC entered into a Master Development Agreement
with CHA in June 2016. The Community Builders (TCB) is a leading nonprofit real estate developer
that owns or manages more than 11,000 quality apartments.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-120
The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016, entitled “Authorization to 1) Enter into a Phase
I Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Ickes Master Developer JV LLC or Other
Entity in an amount not to exceed $2,294,727 2) Enter into a Master Planning
Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Ickes Master Developer JV LLC or Other
Related Entity in an amount not to exceed $665,393; and 3) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: 1) Enter into a Phase I Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Ickes Master
Developer JV LLC or other related entity in an amount not to exceed $2,924,727; 2)
Enter into a Master Planning Predevelopment Loan Agreement with Ickes Master
Developer JV LLC or other related entity in an amount not to exceed $665,393; and
3) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 12)
The resolution for Item 12 approves issuance and sale of Multifamily Housing Revenue Notes (Fannie
Emanuel Senior Apartments) in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $8,000,000; loan HUD Rehab
Assistance Payments of approximately $2,251,800; loan $397,742 grant funds received from the Illinois
10

 Department of Commerce & Economic Opportunity (DCEO); amends the contract with Old Veteran
Construction, Inc. for General Contractor services; amend the contract with Gilbane Building Company for
construction management services; 8) amend the contract with Holabird & Root for architectural and
engineering services; and execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing. Fannie Emanuel, formerly known as Park View
Apartments, was built in 1963 in the West Garfield Park community on the City’s West side. This 20-story
masonry structure was built to house 181 one bedroom units for senior residents. The CHA controlled entity,
Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC, as the developer, is redeveloping the Fannie Emanuel property
to provide quality senior housing using a mixed-finance approach to leverage first mortgage debt and private
equity. The Fannie Emanuel redevelopment will rehabilitate all 181 residential units and return the original
181 housing units to CHA’s leasing portfolio. The building will be renovated to a high and sustainable
standard; meeting life safety, accessibility and city energy codes. It will provide CHA senior residents with
modern conveniences, recreational spaces, and a 2.5 acre landscaped site that includes walking paths, gardens
and other activity areas. The Fannie Emanuel transaction closed in December 2015. After closing,
deterioration of the exterior masonry was discovered requiring demolition and removal of the entire brick
façade.
This discovery resulted in significant unexpected costs to the project to be addressed.
CHA plans to issue approximately $8 Million of additional tax-exempt bonds or notes. In August 2015, the
CHA Board of Commissioners authorized the issuance and sale of notes not to exceed $35 million. CHA
actually issued $33,171,765 in notes in December, 2015. The principal amount for Fannie Emanuel Senior
Apartments notes issued in 2015 and subsequent years will not exceed an aggregate amount of $41,171,765.
The revised total estimated budget of $75 million, includes the following from CHA: Capital Loan of
approximately $23 million, CHA Prepaid Costs of approximately $3 million, RAD Rehab Assistance Payment
Loan of approximately $2.25 million, Loan of $397,742 with grant funds provided by the Illinois DCEO, and
CHA Seller Financing Loan of $5.8 million as financing for the sale of the property. The balance of the
permanent budget will be funded primarily by a Bank of America first mortgage loan of $8.5 million and
approximately $32 million tax credit equity from the sale of the Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC).

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-121
the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic and
corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the
State of Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing
Authorities Act, 310 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental
thereto, including in particular the Local Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS
350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of the State of Illinois (the
“State”), including without limitation in the Act, to issue its revenue Bonds and Notes
for the purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the proceeds
thereof to finance the cost of the development, construction and renovation of
multifamily rental housing located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and

WHEREAS,

Fannie Emanuel Housing Limited Partnership, an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Borrower”), is undergoing the rehabilitation of the “Fannie Emanuel Senior
Apartments” project consisting of the renovation of 181 rental units of public housing
in Chicago, Illinois (the “Project”); and

WHEREAS,

a portion of the costs of the Project is being financed through the issuance by the
Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2015A (Fannie Emanuel
Senior Apartments Project) (the “Series 2015A Note”), its Multi-Family Housing
Revenue Note, Series 2015B (Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments Project) (the
11

 “Series 2015B Note”), and its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2015C
(Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments Project) (the “Series 2015C Note”); and
WHEREAS,

a portion of additional costs for the Project will be financed through the issuance by
the Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note, Series 2016B (Fannie
Emanuel Senior Apartments Project) (the “Series 2016B Note”) and its Multi-Family
Housing Revenue Note, Series 2016C (Fannie Emanuel Senior Apartments Project)
(the “Series 2016C Note”) (collectively, the “Notes”); and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned to Borrower; and

WHEREAS,

the General Partner of Borrower is Fannie Emanuel Housing Development, LLC, an
Illinois limited liability company (the “General Partner”); and

WHEREAS,

the sole member of the General Partner is the Authority; and

WHEREAS,

a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing
thereof will meet the public purposes of the Act; and

WHEREAS,

pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is now
prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project through
the issuance and sale of the Notes pursuant to a Funding Loan Agreement (the
“Funding Loan Agreement”) among the Authority, Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as fiscal agent (“the “Fiscal Agent”) and (i) Bank of America, N.A.,
or an affiliated entity or (ii) another “qualified institutional buyer” within the meaning
of Section 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as determined by the
Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or his designee, or the Chief Financial Officer
of the Authority, as the purchaser of the Notes (the “Note Purchaser”); and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to
a Loan Agreement between the Authority and the Borrower (the “Loan Agreement”)
and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under the Loan Agreement
will be evidenced by a note with respect to the Series 2016B Note debt service (the
“Series 2016B Borrower Note” ) and a note with respect to the Series 2016C Note
debt service (the “Series 2016C Borrower Note”) (collectively the “Borrower Notes”),
which will be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent as security for the Notes;
and

WHEREAS,

certain income and other rental restrictions required by Sections 42 and 142(d) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) related to the Project will
be specified in one or more Regulatory Agreements, Declarations of Restrictive
Covenants and a Land Use Restriction Agreement (each, collectively, the “Regulatory
Agreement”); and

WHEREAS,

certain arbitrage requirements of Section 148 and related provisions of the Code will
be specified in one or more Arbitrage and Tax Certificates (the “Arbitrage
Certificates”) of the Authority and the Borrower; and
12

 WHEREAS,

each series of Notes will be sold by private placement to the Note Purchaser pursuant
to the Funding Loan Agreement; and

WHEREAS,

the Borrower’s obligations under the Borrower Notes will be secured by one or more
mortgages, security agreements and/or collateral assignments with respect to the
Project (the “Collateral Documents”) from the Borrower to the Authority or the Fiscal
Agent and, if to the Authority, the rights of the Authority to such instruments and, as
applicable, the Borrower Notes may be assigned by the Authority to the Fiscal Agent
pursuant to an assignment (an “Assignment”); and

WHEREAS,

the Series 2015A Note is secured by and payable from certain MTW Funds (“MTW
Funds”) received by the Authority and deposited into escrow pursuant to a Pledge
Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”) among the Authority, the Borrower and the
Fiscal Agent, as Escrow Agent, and such MTW Funds, upon withdrawal from such
escrow, will constitute a loan from the Authority to the Borrower pursuant to a loan
agreement (the “MTW Funds Loan Agreement”) with the Borrower; and
the Borrower will be required to operate 181 housing units within the Project for the
use and occupancy of eligible individuals and, in connection therewith, the Borrower
has entered into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract with the Authority, a Rental
Assistance Demonstration Use Agreement with HUD, and a mortgage and other
collateral documents and related agreements and instruments (collectively, and
together with the MTW Funds Loan Agreement, the “MTW Funds Borrower
Agreements”); and

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

other funding for costs of the Project are being provided pursuant to equity
contributions and other sources; and

WHEREAS,

the proceeds of the Notes and the other funding sources may be disbursed pursuant to
a disbursement or construction agreement (the “Disbursement Agreement”); and

WHEREAS,

all or a portion of the expenditures relating to the Project (the “Expenditures”) (i)
have been paid within the sixty days prior to the passage of this Resolution or (ii) will
be paid on or after the passage of this Resolution; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the
Borrower, upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to
reimburse the Borrower for the Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes; and

WHEREAS,

the City Council of the City of Chicago (the “City”) is expected to approve the
transfer to the Authority of a portion of the City’s available unused volume cap for
calendar years 2016 and/or 2017 pursuant to Section 146 of the Code for use by the
Authority in connection with the issuance of the Notes, and the City and the
Authority may enter into a volume cap transfer agreement (the “Cap Transfer
Agreement”) to reflect such transfer; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority and Owner have entered into a RAD Conversion Commitment with
HUD and; executed a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract under the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development Rental Assistance
Demonstration program; and may be required to execute other documents as may be
13

 required by HUD under RAD (referred to collectively herein as the “RAD Authority
Documents”); and
WHEREAS,

the Authority has transferred the Fannie Emanuel property and financed the sale
through seller financing to Fannie Emanuel Senior Housing Limited Partnership; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority has entered into a contract with Gilbane Building Company for
construction management services and assigned the contract to the Owner; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority has entered into a contract with Old Veteran Construction, Inc., for
general contractor services and assigned the contract to the Owner; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority has entered into a contract with Holabird & Root for architectural and
engineering services and assigned the contract to the Owner; and

WHEREAS,

the Funding Loan Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Notes, the Borrower Notes,
the Regulatory Agreement, the Arbitrage Certificates, the Assignment, the Pledge
Agreement, the Disbursement Agreement, the Collateral Documents, the Cap
Transfer Agreement, the RAD Authority Documents and the MTW Funds Borrower
Agreements (or such similar documents as are generally used in similar financing
structures) and any amendments to the aforesaid documents are referred to
collectively herein as the “Authority Agreements”.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

Section 1. The Authority is authorized to enter into the Authority Agreements with
the other party or parties thereto, and the forms, terms and provisions of the Authority
Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects approved. The Chairman, the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee, or the Chief Financial Officer of the
Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to
execute and deliver, and, where necessary, the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee, or the Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of
Commissioners be and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to
attest and to affix the official seal of the Authority to, the Authority Agreements in the
name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to cause the Authority
Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or parties
thereto, in substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such changes
therein as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the
Authority shall approve, his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence
of such approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the forms of
Authority Agreements now before the Authority. When the Authority Agreements are
executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf of the Authority as hereinabove
provided, they shall be binding on the Authority. From and after the execution and
delivery of the Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the
Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and
things and to execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply
with the provisions of the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority
Agreements shall constitute, and hereby are made, a part of this Resolution, and
copies of the executed Authority Agreements shall be placed in the official records of
14

 the Authority, and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
Authority.
Section 2.

The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal amount
not to exceed $8,000,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Funding
Loan Agreement. The Notes shall bear interest at a variable rate of interest as shall be
set forth in the Funding Loan Agreement, as executed, in no event to exceed the
maximum rate set forth in the Funding Loan Agreement. The Notes shall mature on
such date or dates as shall be set forth in the Funding Loan Agreement. The Notes
shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided in the Funding Loan
Agreement, as executed.

Section 3.

The Notes and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the
Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement and from the other sources specified or referred to in the Funding
Loan Agreement, which shall be specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes
in the manner and to the extent provided therein. The Notes and all other obligations
of the Authority in connection therewith shall not be a debt of the City or any other
city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of Illinois or any political
subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village, incorporated town
or county, nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof shall be liable
thereon, nor in any event shall the Notes or such obligations be payable out of any
funds or properties other than those pledged under the Funding Loan Agreement or
those other agreements specifically securing the Notes. The Notes shall not constitute
an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation
or restriction.

Section 4.

The forms of the Notes set forth in the Funding Loan Agreement, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the
Funding Loan Agreement (as executed) be, and the same hereby are approved. The
Notes shall be executed in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority with the
manual or facsimile signature of its Chairman or Chief Executive Officer or his
designee (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on behalf of the
Authority) and attested with the manual or facsimile signature of its Secretary or
Assistant Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Notes on
behalf of the Authority) and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted
thereon. The officers of the Authority shall cause the Notes, as so executed and
attested, to be delivered to the Fiscal Agent for authentication. When the Notes shall
be executed on behalf of the Authority in the manner contemplated by the Funding
Loan Agreement and this Resolution, they shall represent the approved forms of
Notes of the Authority.

Section 5.

The sale of the Notes to the Note Purchaser at a purchase price of not less than 98%
of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of
delivery, is hereby approved.

Section 6.

The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or his designee, Chief Financial Officer, and
the Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of Commissioners be, and
each of them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents,
15

 certificates, and undertakings of the Authority (including, without limitation,
environmental remediation agreements, investment agreements, book-entry
registration agreements, intercreditor agreements and other agreements pertaining to
the security of the Notes) and to take such other actions as may be required or
desirable in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of the Authority
Agreements, the financing of costs of the Project, the MTW Funds and the issuance,
sale and delivery of the Notes. In addition, subsequent to the issuance of the Notes,
any of the foregoing officers of the Authority are hereby authorized to enter into
amendments to the Authority Agreements or other agreements or instruments entered
into by the Authority in connection with the Notes (without the necessity of obtaining
approval by the Board of Commissioners of the Authority to such action) which are
not inconsistent with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and which, in the
judgment of the officers executing the same, are not materially adverse to the interests
of the Authority.
Section 7.

All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority that are in conformity
with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects, approved and confirmed.

Section 8.

The publication on behalf of the Authority of the notice of public hearing pursuant to
Section 147(f) of the Code and the conduct of such public hearing by and on behalf of
the Authority with respect to the issuance of the Notes is hereby ratified, authorized
and approved.

Section 9.

The Authority hereby allocates to the Notes the “volume cap” reallocated or to be
reallocated by the City to the Authority in an amount equal to the aggregate principal
amount of the Notes actually to be issued.

Section 10.

The Authority reasonably expects (based upon information supplied by the Borrower,
upon which it is reasonable and prudent for the Authority to rely) to reimburse the
Expenditures with proceeds of the Notes.

Section 11.

The Notes, or any one or more series thereof, may be, but are not required to be,
initially issued in book-entry form and registered in the name of The Depository Trust
Company, New York, New York (“DTC”), or its nominee, as securities depository.
Authorization is hereby given for various significant actions to be undertaken by the
General Partner (either in its own capacity or as the general partner of the
Partnership). Such actions include the execution and delivery of amendment to the
operating agreement of the General Partner, if necessary; the execution and delivery
of amendment to the limited partnership agreement of the Partnership; the execution
and delivery of amendment to the development agreement, if necessary; the execution
and delivery of various financing, acquisition, and other development and/or
management documents including amendments to such documents; and the execution
and delivery of such documents as may be required by HUD under RAD.

Section 12.

Section 13. The General Partner Designated Officers, and each of them hereby, is authorized to execute
and deliver such documents, certificates, and undertakings of the General Partner
(either in its own capacity or as the general partner of the Partnership) as may be
required by this Resolution.
16

 Section 14.The Authority is authorized to execute such documents as may be required
by HUD under RAD.
Section 15.

The General Partner is authorized to amend the contract with Gilbane Building
Company for construction management services.

Section 16.

The General Partner is authorized to amend the contract with Old Veteran
Construction, Inc., for general contractor services.

Section 17.

The General Partner is authorized to amend the contract with Holabird & Root for
architectural and engineering services.

Section 18.

The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and if any
section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and
provisions of this Resolution.

Section 19.

All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby superseded
to the extent of such conflict.

Section 20.

This Resolution shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage, as by
law provided.
This award is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE,
Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item 13)
The resolution for Item 13 authorize the funding to construct a new Chicago Park District fieldhouse in
an amount not to exceed $6,000,000 for Williams Park in Dearborn Homes, subject to HUD approval.
The Board further authorizes and delegates to the CEO the authority to enter into an Inter-Governmental
agreement with the Chicago Park District in furtherance of the approved resolution. Earlier this year,
CHA and the Chicago Park District entered into discussions on replacing the current field house at
Williams Park. In June 2016, the Chicago Park District’s Board of Commissioners authorized a design
contract with STL Architects for the design of a new field house at Williams Park in Dearborn Homes.
To complete this project, the CHA will provide funding in an amount not to exceed $6,000,000, to the
Chicago Park District to cover the full cost of demolition of the current building and construction of the
new field house. This field house will mainly serve the 1,484 residents of the Dearborn Homes
community and provide much-needed programming space for youth and senior activities. The 388
school-age residents of Dearborn Homes will greatly benefit from the new space and programming that
will become available. The overall scope is to construct a 11,066 square foot building that serves the
Douglas Community Area and Dearborn Homes in Williams Park. STL Architects will design a
community center that is planned to include a half court gymnasium, multi-purpose club rooms for art,
education, performance, meetings, and exercise.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-122
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 18, 2016 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO PROVIDE
FUNDING FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT’S
17

 NEW FIELDHOUSE IN DEARBORN HOMES IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO
EXCEED $6,000,000”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to provide funding for the construction of the Chicago Park District’s new park field
house for Williams Park in Dearborn Homes, in an amount not to exceed $6,000,000,
subject to HUD approval.
Further, the Board authorizes and delegates to the CEO the authority to enter into an
Inter-Governmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District in furtherance of this
resolution.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 10 through 13 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte (Abstains from voting on Item No. 11 only)
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington, the
Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately 45 minutes to discuss personnel
related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; pending, probable or imminent litigation;
review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
Following Closed Session, Commissioners reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
18

 Absent:

Mark Cozzi

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
(Item 14)
The resolution for Item 14 ratifies the following personnel actions: offer of employment to 12
applicants, promotion of 2 current employees; title change of one employee and termination of one
employee.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016–CHA-123
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated October 18, 2016,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

(Item 15)
Chairman Hooker then announced a correction to the address for Item No. 15. The correct address for
the purchase agreement is 4022-4036 N. Elston.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-124
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated October 2016 entitled Recommendation to approve:
1) A purchase agreement for property located at 4022-4036 N. Elston Avenue,
Chicago, IL; 2) Submission of an acquisition package to the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); and 3) the Chief Executive Office or
his designee’s execution and delivery of such other documents and performance of
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes: 1) A Purchase Agreement in an amount of
$1,975,000 for property located at 4022-4036 N. Elston Avenue, Chicago, IL, and
other costs not to exceed $110,000 for the development of mixed use housing and
retail development; 2) Submission an acquisition package to the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); and 3) the Chief Executive Officer
or his designee’s execution and delivery of such other documents and performance of
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is not subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 14 and 15 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
19

 Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by Commissioner
Chico and seconded by Commissioner Washington, the board meeting of October 18, 2016 was
adjourned.
________________________________
John Hooker, Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

20

 