AGENDA

STAFF REPORT 6-26-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6254
ADDRESS: 1723 LONGFELLOW
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON - EDISON
APPLICANT: JENNIFER JARENA
DATE OF STAFF VISIT: 06-21-2019

PREPARED BY: B. CAGNEY

PROPOSAL
The building at 1723 Longfellow Street is a brick, 2.5-story, Prairie style, single-family home. The home is
has an a-symmetrical façade with a covered porch leading to the entrance on the east side and two stories
of bay windows on the west side of the front façade. The hip-roof has a large dormer, clad in wood shake
at the center of front facade. All windows feature cast sills and divided light patterns.
There are two doors from the house with access to the back yard, one from the kitchen, and one from the
sun room. The wooden steps extending from both of these entrances are in disrepair, the applicant reports
that they are “steep and uneven, with nails sticking out.” The concrete patio area that currently exists is
also in disrepair, with cracks and is uneven. The applicant also reports that the lawn / sod is uneven and
that the yard needs to be leveled. In the rear corner of the yard, an existing concrete slab remains in poor
condition at the location of the original garage. There is no information from the applicant when the garage
was demolished. HDC records have no COA on file, though it appears that the removal occurred many
years ago.
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to complete the following
work as per the attached proposal:
•

Landscaping:
o Remove existing sod and excess soil in rear yard
o Level yard
o Remove two trees in corner of yard near power lines
o Remove existing slab from garage
o Replace sod in backyard to establish new lawn per design

•

Rear Fence:
o Remove existing chain-link fence
o Replace with white, vinyl privacy fence

•

Rear Patio:
o Remove existing wooden steps from doorways
 Replace with raised brick porch
o Remove existing concrete patio
 Replace with new paver patio, as shown on concept plan (22’x25’)
 Fendt “Holland” Brick Pavers- 4”x8” (color –TBD)
 Fendt “O.W. Cobblestone” Tumbled Wall Block (color –TBD)
 Fendt “O.W. Bullnose” Tumbled Wall Coping (color –TBD)

 •

To be installed to spec, on 21AA Crushed Limestone & NS Sharp
Bedding Sand and polymeric Jointing Sand

o Replace steps with Fendt Wall Block and Coping per design
o Install grill enclosure with Fendt Wall Block and Coping per design
o Create Patio with Fire Pit using Fendt Wall Block, Fire Pit Block and Coping per design
 Including 14’ dia. seating wall
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical treatment of
individual properties is a flat or graded front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a straight or
curving walk leading to the front entrance. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, stone, or
combinations of those materials. Some front yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces upon
which the house stands. These unpaved terraces have sloping embankments or retaining walls which
are made of brick, stone, or both, at the change of grade. Foundation plantings, often of a deciduous
character, characteristic of the period 1900-1930, are present virtually without exception. Hedges
between properties and along front property lines are not uncommon. It is characteristic for corner lots
to have hedges or fencing at side lot lines along the sidewalk. There is a wide range in the type of
fencing. Fencing within the public view was generally designed to compliment the style, design
material, and date of the residence. Although the American elm was once the dominant tree, it is
virtually extinct in the district. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the area and period.
Plantings of new trees should be directed to "tree lawns" and medians. If American elm is planted, it
should be disease resistant. Straight side driveways leading from the street to rear garages are the norm,
although access to garages is also off the alley, especially in areas of the district that were developed
earlier. On corner lots, garages and driveways often face the side streets. These driveways are paved in
asphalt, concrete, or brick. Side lots are not uncommon for the larger properties in the district, and a
number of these form a part of the original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually
landscaped and are often fenced at or near the setback line. The width of tree lawns varies from block to
block. Street pavements are now asphalt. Cut stone curbs still exist in areas of the district where they
have not yet been replaced with concrete, primarily east of the John C. Lodge freeway. Public
sidewalks are concrete. Some tree lawns/berms have been covered with concrete in parts of the district,
which may represent encroachment on city property. The resulting wide sidewalks are not appropriate
in the district. The ample one hundred and twenty-five (125) foot street right-of-ways of west boston
boulevard and Chicago boulevard are ample, and each have two (2) narrow pavements divided by the
large graded grassy median strips which are planted with evergreens and deciduous trees. The other
east-west streets, Longfellow street and Edison Boulevard, are sixty-six (66) feet wide. The Detroit
Lighting Commission's ornamental poles ("o.p.") with cast iron bases (pattern #10 and cast iron panel
pattern #16a) and wooden shafts are placed at regular intervals primarily on the medians on boston
boulevard and Chicago boulevard, and on the tree lawns on other east-west streets. Lighting on the
north-south side streets consists of steel poles, some of which are fluted, with either ornate pendants or
simple cranes. There are historic upright poles along the periphery of Voight park. Concrete and brick
entrance piers exist at woodward avenue and Longfellow Street. Alleys run east-west down the center
of the blocks, with the exception of the north-south alleys behind the Woodward Avenue frontage.

(14)

Relationship of open space to structures. Open space in the district occurs in the form of vacant land, a
city park, side lots, and grassy median strips in the boulevards. There are no houses facing Woodward
Avenue. Ample open space is provided at Woodward Avenue and Boston Boulevard, creating a parklike entrance into the district. The John C. Lodge freeway is depressed and forms a visual and physical
gap in the district. All houses have rear yards as well as front yards. Where an original or early

 arrangement of house and grounds included, and still includes, landscaped lots which form part of the
landscaping plan for the residence, such landscaped lots are significant landscape features.

(20)

(22)

Orientation, vistas, overviews. Most of the houses in the district have front entrances which are oriented
toward the streets running east-west. The houses on Lasalle Boulevard, from Chicago Boulevard to
Edison Boulevard, are orientated toward Lasalle. Garages are frequently oriented either toward an alley
and/or the front drive or toward a side street in the case of corner lots. Almost all garages are detached
and are at the rear of the lot.
General environmental character. The Boston-Edison district, with its long straight streets, two (2)
boulevards, large-to-moderate sized stately single-family homes, Voight park and Woodward avenue's
open space, has an urban, substantial, low density residential character.

STAFF OBSERVATIONS:
Staff does not feel that the new patio and porch addition to the rear of the home would detrimentally effect any of the
character defining features of the home. However, staff was unclear as to the color selections for many of the pavers.
Also, staff questions how high the raised porch will be from grade and whether building code requires a railing along
the raised porch, and the type of railing installed on the raised porch (code requires railings on more than 2 steps,
any raised surface greater than 30”). Additionally, staff questions why the “white vinyl” fence has been proposed
when there was a new wooden privacy fence on the rear of the property. Staff feels that maintaining the wooden
material for fencing across the entire perimeter of the yard would be more appropriate. However, the work proposed
for the rear of the home is appropriate as stated in Secretary of the Interior Standard 9.

RECOMMENDATION:
It is staff’s recommendation that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the proposed work based
on the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation Number 9) New addition, exterior alterations, or
related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be
differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale and architectural features to protect
the historic integrity of the property and its environment.
…. with the condition that staff be able to review final construction drawings / design selections for the work.

 REPORT

 

 

1974 Historic Designation Photo? Front Elevation

 

Sanborn Map

REPORT



 

 

(El?n; 

I if?? S?T??fj

Fr

1 ??xff-?j 

il?f I 

I 

., xyf??

2 l. Z- 5- 

1 #4350 

 

JJ ?63?me 1 "Li: 
a . 

9-3 gfgad 1?

*1 ?Seaway;

r? 


?r?Mg?frf?f 

REPORT

 

REPORT

1723 Longfellow Rear Yard, applicant photo

1723 Longfellow existing patio, applicant photo

 REPORT

1723 Longfellow - Existing Steps (1), applicant photo

1723 Longfellow - Existing Steps (2), applicant photo

 REPORT

1723 Longfellow - Existing fence and concrete

1723 Longfellow Existing fence and concrete

 REPORT

 

REPORT

From: Jennifer Jarema <jennifer.jarema@wayne.edu>
Sent: Monday, May 13, 2019 1:53 PM
To: HDC hdc
Subject: Historic Project Review Request

Hello my name is Jennifer Jarema. I own a home in Boston Edison and want to have a
landscape project done next month. Attached are the required documents and below is the
checklist required. Thank you very much.
Jennifer Jarema
989-430-9174
Photographs:
See attached file
Detailed Photographs:
See attached file
Description of existing conditions: 
There is two exits from the house that allows access to the backyard space, one off of the kitchen, and one off of the
sunroom. Each of these exits are wooden steps. The current steps are steep and uneven, with nails sticking out. Below
these steps is a broken cement patio area, which leads out into the yard area. The current lawn is filled with weeds, and is
very uneven throughout the entire space. To the back of the yard, there is another broken cement area. Currently there is a
wooden fence in the back of the yard with a gate to the alley way, as well as a chain fence on both sides of the yard. There
are two trees along the back corner of the yard, that may interfere with power lines.
Description of project: 
The existing sod and excess soil must be removed due to weeds and unevenness. The yard must be leveled. The concrete
must be removed since it is broken, and will be replaced with a new patio design. A new white vinyl fence will be replacing
the broken/rusted chain fence.
Detailed scope of work:
See attached project proposal.
Brochure/cut sheets:
See attached files

 REPORT

.4. . Frapmal Data. D?flf': 5 

 

[Em-1:53 rr: 1 Janis-tapa- fir-?rth.

 

 



 

 

 

labia-Rama-w: L?a?tlr'f': and, 5-31: am turn-m: In :m-r ?nr -. m: and amp-mm mum IE
:?mm'nm'a axis-Thain; tum-.5 ir. I'mnl: rim-r}. 11:? IE and cl: IJ-u'eh

*rm'II-Llc. dull-Hm urlcl :il1bta? bud in Edward :bt?iJliih-El new Lawn Farq'lcai?n

Irma-HE, 5: Il??iflm ?v'lil'lff? Far-E4: UF bani-Laura bu 

 

 



'Imfdc, Isl-Elntrancl inb'L?d? Far clcaa'?n: Lima-stare
ENEEIWP whg?and
Ian-Ind" Enid: me in niacin: J?nlnr
i endt M's" Eric-CL: in choice uF culm-
Farm-IF. W351 {piping in ?rm-1:4: all: cola-r
Ful?mcrir. JUiniir??m?.

 

5.1 mum

1-- 
5 i gag-1111;

I a cumwi-JE. tin-Ll irIL-nlu? Ecncl?l: I'I'l'llajl EIIUCLL anal 

 

$5111 0011::

 

51151.?! umbd?nf; i Ian-d?: Viral] [Elm-J: CHE-ling Par 14?;ng

 


richly-cl tin-:l "We? Ejluclr. lum: Fit Elm-L and 

 

51min: 

115m

 

?45:30.00

 

REPORT



pf. . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We?. HEW 
.14- an a 9.115
I a I Cuimcr'?;
WM - . 3:35 MM.
and 
.rm'iclc. Acti'ucrmadmata" E?t'l?l'a" Fire; ?ack, Etcbi?'n. 
Quad um ml . . i
Iran-H azal {will I ncluaun: {innate-tap tn Hetrminm'l hill.
?aunt and are nut thrill-Elna: In Fnj?cl Iii-1.53516:
Fa?mnrr? hem: an: as Fella-Ills;

23:? HF projcc-t total at canraci signing.
If? nf'pmimc?: ?nial at proicct start.

if} 131: projcci rota! upon iymicct cumuFlc tiun.

Ali?k'? run-Einr. [5 EW- an?jic: Etl'l'L': 43an an EEUnl?in: Ell:- abs-w:
flung] Illrit?'n u: .i'rrm': inmlarini'; Extra c.3515 will L1: nnl? curd-:raa-m' art-2i n] :ucwr

.1 sumatc.

melamithaclu .. Dw?lling 

Rt: 

ACQLE mm
?th EPchiCaEiunb: LuncEi?n'nnb rim-I. pricing an: sahlg'Fa?tm'? anclr. an: ham-EH ach-Pbcci $5"an IIll?lfl?-II 3'5 nui?ori?t? 13:.

. I
fl'l? 

{Jicn?gne-m pm 5: :34 




Elm?.5: k'?'ignn?tllm:

 

 

