MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
April 18, 2006
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday, April
18, 2006, at 8:30 a.m. at the Vivian Carter Apartments (formerly Yale Sr. Apartments), 6401 S.
Yale, Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Earnest Gates
Sandra Young

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson,
spring is just around the corner and to mark the season, the CHA brought several hundred former
CHA residents to the South Shore Cultural Center on Saturday for a first-ever city service fair
created specifically for relocatees. At the fair they learned about job programs for adults, summer
programs for kids, opportunities for returning to new mixed-income communities at CHA, social
services that can help families, issues with schools, City Colleges, health care, paying bills, and all
of the other challenges facing residents. According to Mr. Peterson, three more fairs are at Ogden
Park, Homan Square Park and Olive Harvey College. Mr. Peterson reminded the public at large
that the Plan for Transformation is about people just as much as it’s about homes and one of CHA’s
goals is to insure that residents are getting the help they need and that they are successful in
relocating into their new homes and communities. Mr. Peterson then concluded his report by
highlighting issues on the agenda concerning police services at Horner and Cabrini, Mixed Finance
Proposal for Washington Park, award of contract for social services at Keystone Place and a
literacy, education and self-sufficiency program at Horner.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and
the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to discuss
pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and personnel
matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session. Chairperson Gilliam thereupon
introduced for approval the Minutes for the Regular Meeting of March 21, 2006. Upon Motion
made and properly seconded, the Minutes were unanimously approved and accepted as submitted.
Chairperson Gilliam thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers then presented a Motion to approve resolutions for Executive Items 1 and 2.
1

 Executive Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-36
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 3, 2006 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for March 2006.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
March 2006.

Executive Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-37
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated March 27, 2006,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$150,000 in the matter Peter Davis v. CHA, 92 WC 14553.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or her designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $150,000 in the case of Peter
Davis v. CHA, 92 WC 14553.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee,
Commissioner Harris then presented the report for the Tenant Services Committee. Per
Commissioner Harris the Tenant Services Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, April 12,
2006 at1:00 p.m. at the 626 W. Jackson Corporate offices. The Committee was presented with an
update on Job Placement Program by Rayne Martin, Director of Resident and Relocation Services,
and representatives from the Department of Human Services and National Able.
Commissioner Harris then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for Items
A1 thru A6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves a form of Lease and additional Admissions and Continued
Occupancy Policy for Washington Park off-site replacement housing known as Keystone Place.
The development will consist of 68 rental (38 public housing, 23 affordable, and seven market-rate
units) and 68 homes for sale. The CHA will operate these 38 units as public housing units using the
leasing documents and applicable CHA policies and procedures. The property specific
requirements for applicants contained in the attached admissions and continued occupancy policy
are based on the CHA’s Minimum Tenant Selection Plan. These documents have been subject to
negotiation among the CHA, the Developer and Washington Park LAC. A public comment period
was held from March 8, 2006 through April 6, 2006. A public comment hearing was held on
March 22, 2006 at the Charles Hayes Family Investment Center (FIC). Notice for the public
comment period and comment hearing was given in accordance with applicable requirements.
2

 Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on Item A1.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-38
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 24, 2006,
entitled “Authorization for approval of the Lease and Continued Occupancy Policy
for Washington Park Replacement Housing at Keystone place and to amend the
CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents
as an addendum thereto,”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached form of lease and
admissions and continued occupancy criteria in substantially the form presented to
the Board for the Washington Park replacement housing at the off-site development
known as Keystone Place. The Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive
Officer is hereby authorized to approve final changes in these forms, including, but
not limited to, changes based on HUD requirements, or resulting from any applicable
notice and comment process. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the Board’s approval of any and all such changes.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves award of contract to Brinshore Development for Community
and Supportive Services (CSS) for Keystone Place. Brinshore is the current developer of Keystone
Place and is responsible for the overall redevelopment process, including, but not limited to,
preparing funding applications, obtaining financing, construction, and the coordination of
community and supportive services (CSS). Accordingly, the CHA negotiated a scope of work with
Brinshore to implement and provide CSS for Keystone Place. Services will include case
management and community integration services to help families maintain housing and continue to
meet the site-specific criteria at Keystone Place. During the pre-lease phase, case management
services are important to assist and assess potential public housing residents in meeting the
screening criteria for residency in the new Keystone Place. Brinshore will enter into a subcontract
with Heartland Human Care Services to provide intensive case management and supportive services
to increase public housing residents’ likelihood of meeting the eligibility criteria. By offering
supportive services during pre-leasing of units, the hardest to serve population will have a longer
period of time to rectify identified issues.
Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on Item A2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-39
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 12, 2006 entitled “Authorization to negotiate and enter into
a contract with Brinshore Development LLC for Community and Supportive
Services for the Keystone Place Community ”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with Brinshore Development LLC for
a two (2) year base term, with two (2) one-year option periods in an amount not-toexceed $353,200.00 for the base term to provide community and supportive services
to the Keystone Place Community.

(Item A3)
In 2006, the CHA will need a pool of approximately 100 to 200 temporary relocation resource units
for families who will relocate from their existing public housing units to temporary units. Pursuant
to federal law, the CHA must notify families of the specific address to which they will relocate.
Accordingly, in February 2006 an RFP was advertised in area newspapers soliciting qualified firms
that can provide a number of safe, decent and affordable units to house the temporary relocation of
CHA families while redevelopment and rehabilitation is taking place. Based on the three proposals
received, the evaluation committee reviewed and scored each proposal based upon the criteria set
forth in the RFP. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves award of contracts to St.

3

 Edmunds Village, L.P., and Tria Adelfi, LLC, for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed
$1,013,760.00.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-40
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated April 10, 2006, entitled “Authorization to award two (2) contracts
to house the temporary relocation of CHA families”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into cost negotiations and award two (2) twenty-four month base term
contracts with two one-year option periods for temporary relocation housing for
CHA families in an aggregate amount not-to-exceed $1,013,760.00 for the twentyfour (24) month base term.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves a one year agreement with Rita Fry to serve as Monitor for the
CHA. Under the CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract and the CHA
Relocation Rights Contract for Families with Initial Occupancy after 10/1/99, the CHA is
responsible for the employment of an independent auditor to ensure monitoring and tracking of the
relocation process. Both the CHA and CAC agree that monitoring of the relocation process in 2006
should be performed by Ms. Fry who ably served as the Monitor for the past two years. As
monitor, Ms. Fry will be responsible for reviewing CHA’s contractual obligation to residents in two
areas of the relocation process. The two areas are: (1) Phase VI of the “move out” process for
families moving out of their current development; and (2) the “move in” process in 2006 for
families moving into replacement housing at the sites where rehabilitation of public housing and
redevelopment of mixed income communities has begun. Ms. Fry will review CHA’s process for
both move out and move in to determine how effectively CHA is implementing the Contract, and
whether CHA effectively addresses instances of undue hardship experienced by residents.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-41
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 12, 2006 titled
“Authorization to enter into an agreement with Rita A. Fry to serve as Relocation
Monitor;”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a one-year agreement for Rita Fry to serve as Monitor for the CHA
Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract and the CHA
Relocation Rights Contract for Families with Initial Occupancy after 10/1/99 in an
amount not to exceed $500,000 with Mrs. Fry’s consulting firm RAF Consulting,
Inc.

(Item A5)
In December 2004, the Board authorized the CHA to enter into an IGA with CDPH for an amount
not to exceed $250,000.00 for the first year of the IGA to implement and provide a substance abuse
assessment, referral and treatment. The IGA provided for two, one-year extension options. The
program was designed to assist residents, desiring to move into CHA’s new mixed-finance, mixed
income communities, meet those communities’ drug screening requirements. The program began
in March 2005. Although the IGA provided that the CHA’s funding would be utilized first with
CDPH being responsible to pay its subcontractor for all services rendered in excess of $250,000, all
services provided during 2005 were paid for by CDPH using funding it had received. The funding
authorized by the Board was not utilized during the initial term of the IGA. Given the scarcity of
drug treatment slots in drug abuse treatment programs in the City of Chicago, and the long wait lists
associated with them, the CHA and the City want to continue the program developed by Caritas
Central Intake Unit, CDPH’s subcontractor, on behalf of the CHA and CDPH to increase CHA
residents’ access to available slots in substance abuse treatment programs. In FY2006, it has been
agreed that CDPH will invoice the CHA for the first $250,000.00 spent under this program and
CDPH will then be responsible to pay Caritas Central Intake for the balance of all services rendered
over $250,000.00.

4

 RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-42
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 12, 2006
entitled “Authorization to exercise the first year option of Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Public Health for Assessment, Referral
and Treatment Services for Substance Abuse”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVLED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to exercise the first one-year option of the Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”)
with the Chicago Department of Public Health utilizing the funding that was
authorized for the initial term of the IGA without any additional funding to continue
providing a substance abuse assessment, referral and treatment program for the
period of January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 to assist CHA residents, who
choose to move into CHA’s new mixed income, mixed finance communities, in
meeting the new communities’ drug screening requirements.

(Item A6)
The resolution for Item A6 approves a contract with Black United Fund to operate the Literacy,
Education and Self-Sufficiency Pilot Program at Horner. The Authority has committed many
resources to identifying employment opportunities for residents since it is one of the qualifications
needed to access the new mixed-income housing. Efforts to connect residents to employment
opportunities have been stymied by low literacy levels. Accordingly, the Authority is currently
investigating various literacy training models to determine the most effective way to deliver literacy
training to our resident population. This customized program, “Literacy, Education and SelfSufficiency Pilot”, explores a unique approach to literacy training by utilizing life coaches and
drawing on the African American experience to instill a sense of self-empowerment, a prerequisite
to self-sufficiency. Through the collaborative development of the Black United Fund (BUFI),
Northeastern Illinois University’s Carruthers Center for Inner City Studies (CCIS) and other
participating professionals and institutions, a culturally-based literacy and skills development pilot
has been established with the goal of preparing participating Henry Horner residents to become
more self-sufficient through workplace literacy and self-development.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 12, 2006 titled
“Authorization to enter into a contract with Black United Fund to operate the
Literacy, Education and Self-Sufficiency Pilot Program (“LES”) at Henry Horner
Homes”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into a one-year consulting contract with Black United Fund of Illinois in an
amount not-to-exceed $ 176,358.00. The Black United Fund and its Pilot program
partners will provide customized culturally-based literacy training to fifty (50)
residents of Henry Horner Homes.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A6 was seconded by
Commissioner Ivers and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins (Recused from voting on Items A1 & A2 only)

Nays:

None

5

 There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
In the absence of Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, Commissioner
Ivers then presented the monthly report. Per Commissioner Ivers, the Operations and Facilities
Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday, April 12, 2006 at approximately 1:50 p.m. at the 626
W. Jackson Corporate offices.
Commissioner Ivers, then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 thru B9 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations & Facilities
Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves the ratification and execution of the Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago Police Department (CPD) that expired on December 31, 2004.
Its purpose is to memorialize the understanding with the CPD for its continued commitment to
provide certain enhanced police services to all of the CHA’s developments. Amendment No. 1,
thereto, provides for special policing programs for the Henry Horner and Cabrini-Green
communities that are above and beyond the supplemental police services that CPD provides to
CHA’s developments. The IGA continues to provide for the following services: supplemental
police services, which are defined as over and above the baseline police services provided to
residents of the City of Chicago; a customized policing strategy determined in conjunction with the
CHA and its property managers to reduce the incidence of serious and violent crimes, substance
abuse and drug related crimes and drug trafficking; meet with CHA residents at monthly
community/security meetings to identify and prioritize problems; increased vertical foot and car
patrol in CHA developments and provide reports and data to CHA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006 CHA-44
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letters dated April 12, 2006
entitled, “Authorization to ratify and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with
the City of Chicago Police Department for Supplemental Police Services and
Amendment No. 1 thereto for Special Policing Programs for the Henry Horner and
Cabrini Green Communities”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to ratify and execute the intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”) with the City of
Chicago Police Department for supplemental police services for all CHA
developments and Amendment No. 1 thereto for the special policing programs
established for the Cabrini-Green and Henry Horner communities for the period of
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2006. The cost of the supplemental police
services for all CHA developments, including CHA Scattered Sites, is
$12,000,000.00 annually for an aggregate total of $36,000,000.00 for the term of the
IGA. The cost of the special policing program for the Cabrini-Green community is
an amount not-to-exceed $5,800,000.00 annually and the cost of the special policing
program for Henry Horner is an amount not-to-exceed $600,000.00 annually for a
total aggregate amount not-to-exceed $19,200,000.00 for the term of the IGA. The
total aggregate not-to-exceed amount of the IGA including Amendment No. 1
thereto is an amount not-to-exceed $55,200,000.00.

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 authorizes U.S. Residential to enter into a contract with Waste
management for scavengers services at various CHA sites. Staff surveyed the scavenger services
being provided across the developments and found that the service and cost varied from
development to development, even within the same management company’s portfolio. Therefore,
with expectations of standardizing the performance and the cost of services being provided by
portfolio, CHA required that each property management company contract with one waste removal
vendor, for all of the sites within its portfolio. Accordingly, an RFP was advertised in area
newspapers by U.S. Residential in February 2006. Based on the three responses received, the
evaluation committee ranked Waste Management the highest and found them to propose the best
price for the service.

6

 Commissioner O’Keefe recused from voting on Item No. B2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-45
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated April 12, 2006 entitled “Authorization for U. S. Residential to
Enter into a Contract with Waste Management for Scavenger Services at Various
CHA Sites”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes U. S. Residential, property management
company for the CHA, to enter into a contract with Waste Management for
Scavenger Services in the amount not-to-exceed $297,000.00 for a two year contract
term with a one-year option at various CHA properties.

(Item B3)
The resolution for Item B3 approves the submission of a Mixed Finance Proposal and Evidentiaries
to HUD, Commit up to $6.8 million in CHA Development and/or Capital Funds to the Keystone
Place Redevelopment Project and execute and deliver such other documents as may be necessary to
implement the foregoing. The Keystone Place project is a mixed-finance, mixed-income
redevelopment project that represents the first Washington Park redevelopment effort. Keystone
Place involves the development of mixed-income rental housing on vacant lots scattered within a
three block radius in the vicinity of 64th Street and Ellis Avenue. This section of Woodlawn is in a
rapidly revitalizing area in close proximity to the University of Chicago Campus. There will be
sixty-nine apartments contained within nineteen separate buildings located on eighteen lots that are
either owned by the City of Chicago or CHA c/o The Habitat Company, LLC as Receiver for the
CHA. These lots will be conveyed to the developer for a nominal amount at the time of the real
estate closing. The CHA public housing and affordable units will be financed with Federal Low
Income Housing Tax Credits and, therefore, will be restricted to household earning no more than
60% of the Area Median Income. These units will be interspersed, and Corporation Consultants,
Ltd., a local MBE firm that will focus primarily on community initiatives such as MBE/WBE
involvement, community-based hiring, and Section 3 compliance. The total development cost for
the Keystone Place rental redevelopment phase is approximately $18,136,615 and is expected to be
funded by the following five sources of permanent financing: 1) $10,767,921 in equity from the
syndication of 9% tax credits allocated by the Illinois Housing Development Authority in the
annual amount of $1,100,000; 2) CHA Development and/or Capital funds in the approximate
amount of $5,896,432 anticipated to be loaned to the project for approximately 40 years 3) a
$1,000,000 IHDA Trust Fund Loan; 4) a $310,000 Federal Home Loan Bank Affordable Housing
Program (AHP) loan; and 5) $162,262 in deferred developer fee. In addition, approximately
$806,390 in Development and/or Capital Funds is expected to fund additional indirect development
fees and costs.
Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on Item No. B3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-46
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 10, 2006,
requesting authorization to: 1) submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and Evidentiaries to
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development; 2) commit up to
$6,800,000 in CHA Development and/or Capital Funds to the Washington Park
(Keystone Place) redevelopment project; and 3) execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) submit a Mixed Finance Proposal and Evidentiaries to HUD; 2)
commit up to $6,800,000 in CHA Development and/or Capital Funds to the
Washington Park (Keystone Place) redevelopment project; and 3) execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.

7

 (Item B4)
The Plan for Transformation has identified the Harold Ickes Homes and the Dearborn Homes as
developments to be rehabilitated. In order to effectively utilize the current buildings and sites a
community redevelopment master plan must be developed and initiated quickly to continue the
progress being made along the State Street corridor with Hilliard Homes on the north and Park
Boulevard and Legends South on the south. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B4 authorizes the
CEO to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Department of
Planning to utilize and reimburse the Planning NOW program, to perform research and generate
plans in a timely and professional manner. The planning activities will also include land use
planning, community needs assessment, physical needs assessment, and resident surveys. The pool
of planning consultants was competitively procured and stands ready to provide the required
services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-47
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 10, 2006,
requesting authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City
of Chicago Department of Planning and Development (DPD) to utilize and
reimburse DPD for a Planning Now consultant to create a master plan for Harold
Ickes and Dearborn Homes.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Department
of Planning and Development (DPD) to utilize and reimburse DPD for a Planning
Now consultant to create a master plan for Harold Ickes and Dearborn Homes for a
not to exceed amount of $150,000.

(Item B5
The resolution for Item B5 approves Modification Number G-06 with The George Sollitt
Construction Company for additional work related to the general renovation of Trumbull Park
Homes. Based on the evaluation and engineering performed by the Prime Design Consultant and
the review and recommendation of the Owner’s Representative, the following work is necessary to
complete the intended scope of Trumbull’s renovation: increase patching and painting of 122,
revise site electrical layout and ComEd switchgear, insulate mechanical room ceiling, rebuild
additional masonry units below parapets, emergency repair of existing windows, adjust site light
poles, steel grates and stair treads and a credit of approximately $27,000 for adjustments under the
Sensible Homes Program. This additional work is required to perform owner-directed changes and
correct discovered conditions.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-48
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 12, 2006 entitled
“Authorization to execute Modification Number G-06 to Contract No. 0617 with the
George Sollitt Construction Company for additional work related to the General
Renovation of Trumbull Park Homes (IL2-025)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification Number G-06 to Contract No. 0617 with The
George Sollitt Construction Company in the amount of $550,417.20 to complete the
intended scope of the general renovation of Trumbull Park Homes (IL2-025) at 2437
E. 106th Street. The new total contract amount is $54,125,601.85. This Contract
Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B6
The resolution for Item B6 approves Modification Number G-07 with Walsh Construction for
additional work related to the general renovation of Altgeld Gardens Homes. Based on the
evaluation and engineering performed by the Prime Design Consultant and the review and
recommendation of the Owner’s Representative, the following work is necessary to complete the
8

 intended scope of Altgeld’s renovation: reroute Peoples Gas underground gas main, install terminal
blocks and new splitters in the Tele-communication rooms in Block 1 buildings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-49
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 10, 2006 entitled
“Authorization to execute Modification Number G-07 to Contract No. 5090 with
Walsh Construction Company for additional work related to the General Renovation
of Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase 1”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification Number G-07 to Contract No. 5090 with Walsh
Construction Company in the amount of $148,040.00 to complete the intended
scope of the general renovation of Altgeld Gardens (IL2-007) – Phase 1 at 969 East
132nd Place. The new total contract amount is $53,790,274.00. This Contract
Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B7
The resolution for Item B7 approves Modification Number G-01 with HLF Construction for
additional work related to the general renovation of the Washington Park Scattered Sites. Based on
the evaluation and engineering performed by the Prime Design Consultant and CHA, the following
work is necessary to complete the intended scope and of the general rehab at Washington Park:
remove and replace four hundred twenty-four (424) existing windows; install a child guard at
windows above the first floor for a total of three hundred forty-four (344) child guards; remove
existing storm doors, and provide and install a total of sixty (60) new almond colored security storm
doors. This additional work is required to address design corrections.
Commissioner Wiggins recused from voting on Item No. B7.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-50
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 10, 2006 entitled
“Authorization to execute Modification Umber G-01 to Contract No. 5121 with
H.L.F. Construction company for additional work related to the General
Rehabilitation of various locations at Washington Park Homes (IL2-034LR) and
Washington Park Scattered Sites (IL2-054)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to execute Contract Modification Number G-01 to Contract No. 5121 with H.L.F.
Construction Company, Inc. in the amount of $227,389.90 to complete the intended
scope of the general rehabilitation of Washington Park Homes at 3932-38 So. Prairie
(IL2-034LR), 3940-46 So. Prairie (IL2-034LR), 3948-54 So. Prairie (IL2-034LR),
and 4013-27 So. Prairie (IL2-034LR), and Washington Park Scattered Sites at 400810 So. Prairie (IL2-054) and 4012-14 So. Prairie (IL2-054). The new total contract
amount is $4,980,070.90. This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s
compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and
bonding and insurance requirements.

(Item B8)
Under the Plan for Transformation the Chicago Housing Authority designated buildings for
demolition after they failed mandated “viability” tests that indicated these buildings could not be
rehabilitated at a reasonable cost. The buildings the CHA selected for demolition at the time the
original Contracts were awarded in FY2004 were split into three building-type classifications. In
addition to demolishing the designated buildings, the Contractors were to perform additional site
work. The work to be completed under the Contracts was assigned by task orders that indicated the
start and end dates of the Contractors’ performance. The two year base periods of these Contracts
will expire during FY2006. However, not all of the buildings designated to be demolished under
these Contracts have been torn down. Since the original demolition contracts were awarded, the
demolition plans included in the annual updates to the Plan for Transformation have been
9

 considerably revised, and the demolition schedule has been extended by at least one year. Because
of this slowdown in demolition, considerable capacity remains on the Contracts of American
Demolition, Heneghan Wrecking, Delta Demolition, and N.F. Demolition. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item B8 approves extension of demolition contracts with American Demolition,
Heneghan Wrecking, Delta Demolition and N.F. Demolition for Authority-wide demolition
services. By exercising the Option Year provision, the CHA will be able to continue demolition
activities without interruption, at highly competitive rates, through FY2006 and well into FY2007.
In addition, all four Contractors have done excellent work for the CHA under their current
Contracts. The CHA estimates that replacing these Contracts with new contracts, rather than
exercising the Option Year, would result in an increase in demolition costs of 10 – 15%.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-51
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 12, 2006,
entitled, “Authorization to exercise one-year options to extend Contract No. 0599
with American Demolition, Contract o. 0660 with Henegahan Wrecking, Contract
No. 0601 with delta Demolition, and Contract No. 0603 with N.F. Demolition for
Authority-wide Demolition Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to exercise one-year options (“Option Years”) to extend Contract No. 0599 with
American Demolition, Contract No. 0600 with Heneghan Wrecking, Contract No.
0601 with Delta Demolition, and Contract No. 0603 with N.F. Demolition (the
“Contracts”) for Authority-wide demolition services. Funding remaining on the
contracts will be utilized during the Option Year. The Option Years will extend each
Contract through the following periods: Contract No. 0599 will be extended from
November 9, 2006 through November 8, 2007; Contract No. 0600 will be extended
from September 21, 2006 through September 20, 2007; Contract No. 0601 will be
extended from May 18, 2006 through May 17, 2007; and Contract No. 0603 will be
extended from August 18, 2006 through August 17, 2007. These Option Years are
subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3
resident hiring, and insurance requirements. The work to be performed during the
Option Years will be assigned by task orders that will indicate the start and end dates
of the Contractors’ performance.

(Item B9)
The resolution for Item B9 approves extension of McKissack & McKissck’s contract for Managing
Owner’s Representative Services (MOR) for the period of May 1, 2006 through July 31, 2006.
Since May 2003, the MOR has assisted in the management of all ongoing CHA Capital
Improvement Plan Programs. McKissack will continue the project controls, reporting, and claims
review services through the retention of McKissack’s subcontractor VN Services. It is also possible
that an additional three-month extension will be required in order to accommodate the knowledge
transfer and transition, pending the award of the potential Construction Management contract
pursuant to the current solicitation that is under review by the Evaluation Committee.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-52
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated April 10, 2006,
entitled “Authorization to enter into a three (3) month Contract Extension and to
secure a three (3) month extension option with McKissack & McKissack Midwest,
Inc., Contract No.. 0390 FOR MANAGING OWNER’S REPRESENTATIVE
SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to approve a three (3) month extension in the amount of $190,992.00 and further
authorizes the Chief Executive Office or his designee to authorize and secure an
additional three (3) month extension option in the amount of $140,992.00 of
Contract No. 0390 for Managing Owner’s Representative (“MOR”) services with
McKissack & McKissack Midwest, Inc. (“McKissack”) for extended staffing
authorization, which shall be at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer or his
authorized designee. The new contract amount of Contract No. 0390 will be
10

 $4,141,930.00. This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.
The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B9 was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe (Recused from voting on Item No. B2 only)
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins (Recused from voting on Items No.B3 & B7)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe, the Finance & Audit Committee Meeting was not held
as Noticed due to a lack of quorum. However, the Committee was presented with the Treasury
Report for the month of March 2006 and highlighted the four items but no votes or actions were
taken.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced a Motion for adoption of resolution for Item C1 for Board
approval.
(Item C1)
Item C1 approves the 1st Quarter Revised 2006 Comprehensive Budget. The Authority is required
to submit for approval by the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive Budget detailing each of the
following: General Fund, Section 8 Non-MTW, HOPE VI and Other Funding Programs, and the
use for these funds. The FY2006 budgeted expenditures have been revised from $942,575,438 to
$939,799,330, resulting in a $2,776,108 decrease. The major changes by funding source are
explained below: General Fund: total revenues and associated expenditures increased by
$2,554,702 for a fund total of $855,230,164. The increase is due to a rise in average Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) projected under the Housing Choice Voucher Program; Section 8 NonMTW Fund: total revenues and associated expenditures decreased by $5,436,347 for a fund total of
$24,844,180. The decrease is due to a reduction in funding for various ACC contracts for HAP;
Hope VI Fund: total revenues and associated expenditures increased by $1,357,798 for a fund total
of $38,789,861. The increase is primarily due to additional funding provided to support Relocation
& Supportive Services activities and Other Funding: the total revenues and associated expenditures
decreased by $1,252,261 for a fund total of $19,124,470. The decrease is primarily due to
reductions in projected Non-Federal Revenues.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated April 3, 2006,
entitled “Approval of the Revised 2006 Comprehensive Budget”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments and
finds with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and economical
operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of serving lowincome families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use of
Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and

11

 3.

THAT,

that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance with
the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago Housing
Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C1 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Nays:
None
There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced a Motion for adoption of resolution for Item C2 for Board
approval.
(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves award of contract to Warehouse Direct and Corporate
Express for supply and delivery of office supplies. In February 2006, an IFB was issued soliciting
qualified firms to supply and deliver office supplies to the CHA. The IFB was advertised in area
newspapers, in addition, CHA directly solicited 33 vendors, including 25 MBE and 9 WBE
vendors. Of the five bids received and opened, Warehouse Direct and Corporate Express were the
lowest, responsive and responsible bidders. The resolution also approves ratification of additional
funding for existing Contract #0457 with Corporate Express. In 2004, the CHA initiated an
Authority-wide solicitation for the supply and delivery of office supplies. At the time, there was an
intended strategy to outsource a large portion of the printing required by the Authority. However,
shortly after this award to Corporate Express, the decision was made to increase the in-house
technical capability for the professional reproduction of Authority documents, necessitating greater
quantities of paper, and required the addition of $250,000 to the contract for paper with Corporate
Express.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 10, 2006
entitled “Authorization (1) to Enter into a Contract with Warehouse Direct for
Supply and Delivery of Office Supplies, and Toner Cartridges and a Contract with
Corporate Express for Supply and Delivery of Specific Paper and Copy Paper, and
(2) Ratification of additional funding for Contract #0457 with Corporate Express.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: 1) enter into a two (2) year indefinite quantity contract with a one (1) year option
with Warehouse Direct for the supply and delivery of office supplies and toner
cartridges for a not-to-exceed price of $400,000.00, and a two (2) year indefinite
quantity contract, with a one (1) year option with Corporate Express for the supply
and delivery of specific paper and copy paper for a not-to-exceed price of
$300,000.00; and 2) ratify the additional funding of a Not-To-Exceed amount of
$250,000 for Contract #0457 with Corporate Express for the supply of paper
provided to the Authority from March of 2004 through March of 2006.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C2 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
12

 Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced a Motion for adoption of resolution for Item C3 for Board
approval.
(Item C3)
In July 1998, the CHA entered into a five year lease for the rental of 12,523 square feet of office
space located on the 8th floor of 600 West Jackson Street, Chicago, Illinois. The Premises provide
office space for the CHA’s Operations Department and the Pension Division. The original term of
the Lease Agreement expired on February 1999. In November 1998, the CHA executed a First
Amendment to the Lease which resulted in an increase of 3,466 square feet of office space utilized
by the Capital Construction Department. Thereafter, three other Amendments to the Lease
Agreement were approved and executed by CHA which did not modify or affect the Lease terms in
any way, but did extend the Lease for an additional one year period through August 31, 2006.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item C3 approves execution of the Fifth Amendment to the Lease
that will extend the term of the Lease for another one year period until August 31, 2007. The
original Lease does contain an early termination provision which enables CHA to terminate the
Lease Agreement, once the new CHA offices are ready and available for occupancy in the CNA
building located at 60 E. Van Buren Street.
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-55
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 27, 2006,
entitled, “Request for Authorization to Ratify the Execution of the Fifth Amendment
to the Lease for the Premises Located at 600 West Jackson Street, Chicago, Illinois”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorize the ratification of the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee’s execution of the Fifth Amendment to the Lease Agreement
for the Premises located at 600 West Jackson, Suites 125 and 800, Chicago, Illinois.
The annual rent for the Lease shall be in the amount of $339,211.80 plus expenses
and real estate taxes.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C3 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.

13

 Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced a Motion for adoption of resolution for Item C4 for Board
approval.
(Item C4)
In June 1995, the CHA entered into a five year lease for the rental of 24,450 square feet of office
space located on the 21st floor of 200 West Adams Street, Chicago, Illinois. The Premises provide
office space for the CHA’s Office of General Counsel and Inspector General. The original lease
term of the Lease Agreement expired in July 2001. In January 2002, the CHA executed a First
Amendment to the Lease which resulted in a reduction of 2,347 square feet of office space leased
by the General Counsel. The execution of the Second Amendment to the Lease in April 2001
further reduced the space to 17,571 rental square feet and extended the term of the Lease an
additional two years until July 31, 2003. Thereafter, the Lease was amended, again, extending the
Lease term for an additional nineteen months until February 28, 2005. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item C4 approves execution of the Fifth Amendment to the Lease that will extend the term of
the Lease for another two year period until February 29, 2008. The Fifth Amendment to the Lease
does, however, contain an early termination provision which enables CHA to terminate the Lease
Agreement, once the new CHA offices are ready and available for occupancy in the CNA building
located at 60 E. Van Buren Street
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-CHA-56
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 27, 2006,
entitled, “Request for Authorization to Ratify the Execution of a Fifth Amendment
to the Lease for the Premises located at 200 West Adams Street, Suite 2100,
Chicago, Illinois”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the ratification of the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee’s execution of a Fifth Amendment to the Lease
Agreement for 200 West Adams, Suite 2100, Chicago, Illinois. The annual rent for
the Lease shall be in the amount of $254,779.56, plus expenses and real estate taxes.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item C4 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

14

 