Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of April 17, 2007
Suder Montessori School, 2022 West Washington, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

1.

Lee Mikel

CHA has decided to combine Office of the
President and Tenant Patrol. These offices need
to be separate due to privacy issues.
Requesting that T-Scanners be installed in all
Senior Buildings.
Tenant needs are not being met. Challenged
Board to follow-thru with promises made and
listen genuinely and diligently to concerns of
residents.

2.

Kathy Hardy

3.

Jackie Sylvester

4.

Willie Fleming

Is there going to be any type of investigation by
CHA to the corruption going on at Cabrini
regarding Section 3 hiring practices. No meetings
are held by the LAC so what kind of
measurements should be taken by Cabrini
residents to ensure that their voices are heard.

5.

Donna Underwood

Has not received reimbursement of $2,400 for
relocation expenses incurred since December
2006.

Status
At the present time, CHA has no plans to consolidate these two
offices.
CHA is in the process of completing a cost analysis and will
continue to research the feasibility of this matter.
There are many other formal venues available to the public for
participation, dialogue and discussion. All major policy
documents and issues undertaken by the Chicago Housing
Authority are the subject of public hearings. Additional forums
such as the monthly Central Advisory Council Meeting, Monthly
Tenant Services Meeting, TSP Hearings, design charrettes,
Townhall Meetings and Working Group meetings are also held
to give residents and the public at large an opportunity to
actively participate and interact with CHA senior management.
The Cabrini LAC holds meetings every 4th Wednesday of the
month at 6:00pm. The last meeting was held last week at the
LAC office located at 1230 N. Burling. If the residents have
concerns they should attend these meetings to voice their
opinion. They can also contact the LAC office at 312-742-7494.
Also, the Development team for Parkside hosts meetings for
those individuals interested in work. Those meetings are held
the fourth Monday of each month at the Holsten Human Capital
Office, located at 1311 N. Halsted (North Town Village). Those
individuals can also call 312-642-3343.
This matter is presently under review by the Legal Department.
A written decision will be sent to tenant within the next 2 weeks.

 6.

Matthew Aslesen
.

Meeting is not structured to serve the residents of
CHA, i.e. time of meeting, no dialogue between
Commissioners and residents and use of
stanchions at meeting.

7.

Crystal Palmer

Announced that the HRC President and former
Commissioner Mamie Bone is in intensive care at
UIC Hospital.

There are many other formal venues available to the public for
participation, dialogue and discussion. All major policy
documents and issues undertaken by the Chicago Housing
Authority are the subject of public hearings. Additional forums
such as the monthly Central Advisory Council Meeting, Monthly
Tenant Services Meeting, TSP Hearings, design Charrettes,
Townhall Meetings and Working Group meetings are also held
to give residents and the public at large an opportunity to
actively participate and interact with CHA senior management.
Comments Noted.

 