MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

January 16, 2001

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority met in regular session on Tuesday,
January 16, 2001 at 8:30 a.m. at the Senior Housing North, Sheridan/Leland Apartments, located
at 4645 North Sheridan in Chicago.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Sandra Young
Absent:

Earnest Gates

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; G.A. Finch, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents and
the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing Session, Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer,
presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Peterson, due to staff's winter preparedness, the recent
cold weather has generated few problems but for the most part no real crisis. Mr. Peterson then
announced that in a new spirit of partnership, the Cabrini Green Consent Decree, allowing
development to move forward, was approved by both resident leadership and the Board. Mr.
Peterson continued by informing the public at large that with the Authority's federally approved
$1.5 billion Plan for Transformation, $350 million worth of improvements are planned for the
58 senior buildings in FY2001. Also planned is the submission of new HOPE VI funds for
Taylor, Rockwell and Stateway and, for the first time ever, the CHA will raise money in the
bond market to accelerate its capital program in order to secure the most favorable interest rates.
Mr. Peterson indicated that during this fiscal year, the Service Connector Model will be
1

 implemented at CHA's family developments. The City Department of Human Services (CDHS)
will be responsible for linking CHA residents to daycare, job training, drug treatment and other
needed services that will help them get jobs. With the assistance of the Mayor's Office of
Workforce Development, hundreds of residents have already found work. After decades of
neglect and indifference to public housing residents, Chicago is embracing the mission to make
CHA a national model of public housing. Mr. Peterson concluded his report by thanking the
Board, resident leadership and community for their support in the past year and remarked that he
was looking forward in the coming months and beyond to bring to fruition the planned goals.
A motion was then introduced and seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately one 1 1/2 hour to discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective
negotiating matters, security and personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and the Chairperson thereupon
introduced the following items discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Mooney made an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Items No.1 through No.4.
(Item No. 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-1
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners is effecting a Plan for Transformation for the
Chicago Housing Authority (“Authority”) and its tenants that is resulting in a
substantial reduction in personnel, the outsourcing of most services, the
privatization of redevelopment, and the creation of mixed-income communities
among many significant other things; and
WHEREAS, the Authority is evolving into a smaller, efficient agency by reengineering its staff
and operational departments including the Office of the Inspector General; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners hereby reaffirms and clarifies its determination to
establish and maintain the Office of the Inspector General to make inquiries,
undertake investigations and conduct inspections concerning allegations of or
incidents of waste, fraud, and abuse at the Authority in the most efficient and
effective manner while maintaining confidentiality; and
WHEREAS, The Housing Authorities Act (“Act”), 310 ILCS Section 10/6.provides that the
Board of Commissioners shall, from time to time, select and appoint officers and
employees and may prescribe the duties and compensation of each officer and
employee; Section 10/8.1a. provides that the Authority has power to police its
property and to exercise police powers for the protection of the persons and
property of its residents, employees and visitors for the enforcement of any rule or
regulation adopted by the Authority and in furtherance of the purposes for which
it was organized.; Section 10/8.6. provides that the Authority has power to enter
upon any building or property in order to conduct investigations and hear
testimony and take proof under oath at a public or private hearing on any matter
for its information and to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses
or the production of documents and records; Section 10/8.7. provides that Section
23 of the State Housing Act shall apply regarding any examination or
investigation by the Authority and its compelling attendance of witnesses or
producing documents, and Section 10/8.8. provides that any investigations or
examinations provided for in this Act may be conducted by the Authority or by a
committee appointed by it, consisting of one or more commissioners, or by
counsel, or by an officer or employee specially authorized by the Authority to
conduct it.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Office of the Inspector General shall have authority to conduct investigations
into and examinations of allegations of or incidents of waste, fraud, and abuse at
the Authority by an employee, officer, contractor or member of the Board of
Commissioners subject to an oversight committee comprised of the Chair of the
Board of Commissioners, the Chief Executive Officer, and the General Counsel
(“Oversight Committee”); and
2

 THAT,

To the extent permitted by law under Section 10/8.1a. of the Act, the Inspector
General and such deputies, assistants and other employees as may be necessary
may exercise police powers for the protection of the persons and property of the
Authority’s residents, employees and visitors, for the enforcement of any rule or
regulation adopted by the Authority; however, under no circumstances shall the
Inspector General and his deputies and assistants themselves make arrests but
will request the Chicago Police Department, the Cook County Sheriff, or the
appropriate state or federal law enforcement agency to make arrests for criminal
conduct.

THAT,

The Office of the Inspector General shall become a division of the Office of the
General Counsel and the Inspector General shall have direct day-to-day reporting
responsibility to the General Counsel; and

THAT,

The Oversight Committee shall be responsible for a) approving the Office of
Inspector General’s annual work plan and monthly reports, b) approving all
investigations involving waste, fraud, or abuse which investigations individually
exceed the value of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), c) reviewing reports on all
investigations including those which are below ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00),
d) approving the issuance of subpoenas requiring attendance of witnesses or
production of documents allowed under Section 10/8.6. and Section 10/8.7. of the
Act, e) establishing priorities and guidelines for the activities of and allocation of
resources of the Office of the Inspector General, f) evaluating the performance of
the Inspector General and recommending compensation, and g) engaging,
extending or terminating the employment of the Inspector General. The
Oversight Committee will report on the activities of the Office of the Inspector
General on a quarterly basis to the Board of Commissioners. If a member of the
Oversight Committee is a subject of an Inspector General investigation, then for
the purpose of such investigation, the Oversight Committee will be comprised of
those two members not being investigated; if two members of the Oversight
Committee are being investigated by the Inspector General for the same matter,
then for the purpose of such investigation, the remaining member not being
investigated shall constitute the Oversight Committee; if all three members of the
Oversight Committee are being investigated by the Inspector General for the same
matter, then for the purpose of such investigation, the Vice Chair of the Board of
Commissioners shall constitute the Oversight Committee.

THAT,

Responsibility for engaging an independent auditor to conduct an annual audit of
the Authority’s operations shall be transferred to the Office of the Chief Financial
Officer including the transfer of those audit staffers who have responsibility for
assisting in external, independent audits; and

THAT,

Assignment of responsibility for evaluating the efficiency, management, or
economy of any department of the Authority shall be within the discretion of the
Chief Executive Officer.

THAT,

To obviate confusion and duplication and to ensure simplicity and clarity of the
Inspector General’s role, responsibility and authority going forward, the following
Board of Commissioners resolutions shall be rescinded in their entirety and
superceded by the present resolution which becomes effective upon approval:
Resolution No. 87-CHA-113
Resolution No. 89-CHA-80
Resolution No. 90-CHA-131
Resolution No. 91-CHA-221
Resolution No. 94-CHA-93

(Item No. 2)
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-2
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 6, 2000
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the matter of Lena
Eggleston, Administrator of the Estate of Lena Vasser vs. CHA, 97 L 3012.
3

 THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the settlement agreement in the matter of Lena Eggleston,
Administrator of the Estate of Lena Vasser vs. CHA, 97 L 3012 for the amount of
$175,000.00.

(Item No. 3)
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-3
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated December 4,
2000 requesting authorization to enter an agreed order in the matter of Henry
Horner Mothers’ Guild v. CHA, Case No. 91 C 3316 which authorizes a
reallocation of Hope VI funds and a distribution of those funds for payment of
attorneys fees and to the Horner Security Working Group to fund a Security
Coordinator position for the Henry Horner/West Haven community;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the CHA’s Chief Executive Officer to
agree to and abide by the entry of an agreed order (a true and correct copy of
which is attached hereto) in the matter of Henry Horner Mothers’ Guild et al. v.
CHA et al., Case No. 91 C 3316, whereby: 1.) the construction schedule for the
Horner Development Revitalization Program is modified; 2.) the number of units
to be constructed in Phase I is reduced from 466 to 461; 3.) Four Hundred and
Two Thousand, Three Hundred ($402,300.00) Dollars is reallocated from
Program 196, Annual Contributions Contract C-1150 and shall be remitted to the
CHA by the Habitat Company for distribution as follows: (a) Twenty Thousand
($20,000.00) Dollars to the National Center on Poverty Law, Inc. as and for
attorneys fees; and (b) Three Hundred and Eighty-two Thousand, Three Hundred
($382,300.00) of which shall be paid by the CHA to or on behalf of the Horner
Security Working Group for the purpose of hiring a “Horner Security Coordinator
Liaison”.

(Item No. 4)
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-4
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 5, 2001 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Reports for December 2000.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for December
2000.

Motion to adopt said resolutions was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Peralta Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Leticia Davis, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented
the following report. Per Commissioner Davis, the Finance and Audit Committee met on
4

 Wednesday, January 10, 2001 at 1:00 p.m. Staff presented the Committee with the annual
highlights for the Department of Revenue, which includes a total of $14.4 million of new
resources received in FY2000. Also, in FY2000, $624,770 cash and in-kind contributions was
raised from corporate partners. In it’s monthly Treasury Report, staff reported that year-end cash
and investment totals approximately $96million with a year to date average yield of 6% on all
funds. A presentation on the Chicago Metropolitan Development Corporation was presented to
the joint Finance and Operations Committee.
Commissioner Darcy then introduced an Omnibus motion to adopt resolutions A1 through A5,
recommended for approval by the Finance & Audit Committee.
(Item No. A1)
In order to update and improve the Ethics Policy, the resolution for Item A1 requests approval on
the following substantive revisions: changes in definition of "Financial Interest"; increase from
$50 to $200 for permissible non-monetary gifts; acceptance of employment from a former CHA
employee from a contractor doing business with the CHA; salary amount at which an employee
must file a Statement of Financial Interest and acceptance of gift or money by employees for
publication of articles, books, or speaking engagements on topics and subjects unrelated to his
employment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-5
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated December 21,
2000 entitled “Approval of Adoption of the Revised Chicago Housing Authority
Ethics Policy”;
THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Revised Ethics Policy, attached hereto as Exhibit A and dated December 21,
2000, is hereby adopted; and

THAT,

this policy is effective immediately.

(Item No. A2)
The resolution for Item A2 is in response to the increase in usage of electronic communication.
This policy replaces and expands upon existing communication from the Executive Policy on "Email and Internet Usage". The policy sets forth the proper usage of Authority communications
equipment including telephones, voice-mail, facsimiles, cell and wireless phones, e-mail and the
Internet.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-6
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated December 21,
2000 entitled “Approval of Adoption of the Chicago Housing Authority
Communications Equipment Policy”;
THERFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Communications Equipment Policy, attached hereto as Exhibit A and dated
December 21, 2000, is hereby adopted;

THAT,

this policy rescinds Executive Office Memorandum entitled “E-mail and Internet
Usage”; and

THAT,

this policy is effective immediately.

(Item No. A3)
In the spring of 2000, CHA requested funds from Senator William Shaw to support the
construction of a playground at 132nd and Ingleside in Altgeld Gardens. A request of $80,000
was made and subsequently approved by Senator Shaw. The resolution for Item A3 authorizes
acceptance of the grant and issues a commendation honoring Senator Shaw for his effort and
assistance.

5

 RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-7
WHEREAS, State Senator William Shaw of the Fifteenth Senate District has worked actively
with business and community leaders to improve health conditions and
community development to rebuild the inner city;
WHEREAS, Senator Shaw currently serves on the committees for Environment & Energy;
Agriculture & Conservation; Local Government & Elections; Legislative
Reference Bureau; Legislative Research Unit;
WHEREAS, Senator Shaw is recognized for his record and advocacy on economic
development, school reform, healthcare improvement, and his support on
environmental legislation;
WHEREAS, Senator Shaw was instrumental in the rebuilding efforts of the North PullmanChicago area;
WHEREAS, Senator Shaw serves a district in both the Chicago and South Suburban Cook
County which encompasses the Altgeld Gardens Public Housing Development;
WHEREAS, On October 2000, the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, through the
efforts of Senator William Shaw, awarded the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA)
a grant in the amount of $80,000.00 to purchase equipment to construct a
playground in the Altgeld Gardens Public Housing Development;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority hereby records its
appreciation for the work of Senator William Shaw on behalf of the children of
public housing and gratitude for his commitment to rebuilding inner-city
neighborhoods, and authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to accept a grant
award from Illinois Department of Natural Resources for $80,000 to build a
playground in Altgeld Gardens Public Housing Development.

(Item No. A4)
At the December 2000 Board meeting, Commissioners approved a one month extension to
CMHDC's contract due to several concerns posed by the Finance and Operations Committees.
At the January 2001 meeting, another presentation was held with the Finance and Operations
Committees to address the Commissioners concerns. However, after considerable discussion,
several Commissioners stressed the need for clarity on operating protocols and governance
issues. The Commissioners, therefore, did not recommend endorsement of CMHDC's contract
without more knowledge of its current position and activities. The contract for CMHDC was,
therefore, extended for one additional month and will be revisited at the February meeting.
RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-8
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed the Board Letter dated January 10,
20001 requesting "Request for Extension of Consulting Services Contract
between the Chicago Metropolitan Housing Development Corporation
("CMDHC") and the Chicago Housing Authority " effective February 1, 2001;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to extend the contract between the Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development Corporation and the Chicago Housing Authority for planning,
financial, development and management services for one month.

(Item No. A5)
In December 1998 and 1999, the Board approved and authorized the participation of full-time
CMHDC employees in the CHA's medical/dental, death/disability, Employee Assistance
Program, deferred compensation and retirement plans for respective years of 1999 and 2000.
Since CMHDC will be responsible for appropriate payments of the costs of the benefits and to
ensure that there is not a gap in services to CMHDC employees, the following resolution for
Item A5 was approved as presented.
6

 RESOLUTION 2001-CHA-9
WHEREAS, in December 1998 and 1999, the Board of Commissioners approved and
authorized the participation of full-time CMHDC employees in the
medical/dental, death/disability, Employee Assistance Program (EAP), deferred
compensation and retirement plans for respectively, 1999 and 2000;
WHEREAS, in order to continue such coverage during 2001, a new resolution must be
approved by both, the CHA Board of Commissioners and CMHDC's Board of
Directors.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners approves the continuation of the arrangement for
participation of CMHDC full time employees in the medical/dental,
death/disability, Employee Assistance Program (EAP), deferred compensation
and retirement plans that are made available to CHA employees for the period of
January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001; and

THAT,

CMDHC will be responsible for appropriate payments of the costs of such
benefits.

Motion to adopt said resolutions was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Andrew Mooney
Michael Darcy
Leticia Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The report of the Finance Committee was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Mooney then presented the report for the Operations & Facilities Committee
meeting held on Wednesday, January 10, 2001 at 2:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Per
Commissioner Mooney, the Committee was presented with the following three (3) briefings:
Monthly Operating Report, Update on Property Managers Plan Format and Status Report on
Capital Program. Commissioner Mooney advised the Board that the Committee was duly
impressed with the presentations made by Duwain Bailey, Chief of Operations, and his staff.
Commissioner Mooney then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Items B2
through B4, recommended for approval by the Operations & Facilities Committee, and asked
that B1 be deferred pending resolution of several management issues.
(Item No. B1 - Deferred)
Recommendation to submit a Mixed-Finance Development Plan for the rehabilitation of a 12
unit building and to enter into a Lease Agreement with Chicago Metropolitan Housing
Development corporation, owner/developer of the mixed-finance development known as the
4700 North Beacon Project.
(Item No. B2)
Pursuant to the provisions of the Moving to Work Agreement, and in order to fulfill CHA's
promise that lease compliant residents will be able to return to public housing, the CHA, along
with the Central Advisory Council (CAC) created a CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and
Relocation Rights Contract. After a series of negotiations involving CHA staff and residents'
legal counsel, Board approval was granted. The resolution for Item B2 seeks approval to revise
the Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract whereby leaseholders now have
7

 the opportunity to update the permanent housing choice information on their Housing Choice
Survey one time before they receive an offer of permanent replacement housing.
Commissioner Mooney then announced, in relation to a letter received today (January 19, 2001)
from Willie Burrell, LAC President of Scattered Sites East, the Committee is comfortable that
all appropriate parties have been involved in the revision to the Moving to Work Agreement. The
Operations Committee, therefore, reiterates their recommendation to approve the following
resolution as presented:
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-10
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 27, 2000
requesting approval of the revised CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and
Relocation Rights Contract;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners adopts the attached revised CHA Leaseholder
Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract.

THAT,

this revised CHA Leaseholder Housing Choice and Relocation Rights Contract
supersedes all previous versions of the contract and any and all conflicting
language found in existing CHA policies and procedures including the recently
board-approved Admissions and Occupancy Policy.

(Item No. B3)
The resolution for Item B3 requests authorization to execute a Land Use Lease Agreement for
1328-1344 W. Taylor with the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame to operate a
parking lot on the site. This lease will support ABLA residents by providing employment
opportunities to operate the temporary parking lot. This property was vacated in February 1999
when the building containing 29 units was demolished. New construction on this site will not
commence for at least another year, as planning activities will require another 6 months, with a
minimum of 6 additional months needed to identify a developer, financing sources and various
government approvals. In the meantime, this vacant lot can be utilized by the community for
much needed parking in the area. In addition, the lease will provide revenue to support a
resident initiative for a Historic Preservation exhibit in the Jane Addams Home.
RESOLUTION NO 2001-CHA-11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated December 18, 2000
requesting authorization to execute a Land Use Lease Agreement for 1328-1344
W. Taylor with the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame and concurs
with the recommendation contained therein;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Land Use Lease Agreement for 1328-1344 W. Taylor with
the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame in exchange for $525 monthly
rent and all revenues in excess of the operating expenses. The term of Land Use
Lease Agreement shall be for one (1) year with four (4) one (1) year options,
subject to annual CHA Board of Commissioners’ approval.

(Item No. B4)
Aurie Pennick, President and CEO and staff of Leadership Council made a presentation to the
Operations Committee for Metropolitan Open Communities. The Committee was uneasy with
staff's recommendation to enter into negotiations for modification of Leadership's contract and
stressed the need for a more thorough review and consideration of the overall program. Staff
was also requested to identify the Authority's long term commitment and accompanying budget
source to support this program. Based on Committee's recommendation, the resolution for Item
B4 extends Leadership's contract for 60 days to avoid disruption in services to the residents.
Accordingly, this item will be revised at upcoming Committee meetings.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-12
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 10, 2001 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND
8

 THE PROFESSIONAL CONSULTING SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL FOR METROPOLITAN OPEN COMMUNITIES,
INC. AND THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designated representative to extend the Professional Consulting Services
Agreement Between Leadership Council for Metropolitan Open Communities,
Inc., and the Chicago Housing Authority on a month-to-month basis, for two
additional months, to April 21, 2001.

The Motion to adopt Items B2 through B4 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Sandra Young
Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said motion carried and said resolutions adopted. The
Operations & Facilities Committee Report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Darcy then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Items C1 through
C3, recommended for approval by the Tenant Services Committee.
(Item No. C1)
In July 2000, the Board authorized the Authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
with Chicago Department on Aging (CdoA) for the period of April 17, 2000 through December
31, 2000 with an option to extend for an additional year. The purpose of the coordinated social
service program is to improve the quality of life and assist elderly persons and persons with
disabilities to live independently and/or to prevent premature or unnecessary institutionalization
of the elderly residing in senior buildings. Since CDoA has satisfactorily performed services
during the initial term, the resolution for Item C1 requests authorization to extend the Agreement
for an additional year in the amount of $690,000.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
Memorandum dated December 15, 2000 entitled “Authorization to Extend the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department on Aging to Provide
a Coordinated Supportive Social Services Program for Senior Citizens Residing in
Twenty-three CHA Senior Buildings”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
Designee to modify and extend the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago Department on Aging to provide a coordinated supportive social service
program for senior citizens residing in twenty-three (23) senior developments for
the period of January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001 for an additional
amount not to exceed $690,000.

(Item No. C2)
The contract with Jitney One Transportation, Inc. was initially established to help enhance the
Authority's commitment to Welfare to Work goals and initiatives and is funded by a grant from
the Chicago Department of Human Services. At the January 2001 Tenant Services Committee,
staff requested approval to extend Jitney One's contract for an additional year. However,
Commissioners requested staff to provide additional information pertaining to unit cost,
9

 destination point and performance indicators. Based on the Tenant Services Committee
recommendation, extending this contract for 60 days prevents any interruption in services
presently being supplied to participating residents and allows for Commissioners concerns to be
addressed. The resolution for Item C2, therefore, approves a sixty (60) day contract extension for
Jitney One Transportation, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority have reviewed the
Memorandum dated December 11, 2000 entitled, Contract Extension For Contract
No. 9410 For Authority-Wide Transportation And Resident Training Services
With Jitney One Network Transportation, Inc. and concur with the
recommendation contained therein.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is hereby, authorized to execute
Modification No. 1, for a sixty (60) day extension and a price increase not to
exceed $70,000.00 for the Authority-wide Transportation and Training Services
with Jitney One Transportation Inc.

(Item No. C3)
In 1998, the Authority entered into five (5) Residential Relocation Services contracts each for a
base period of two years with three one year option periods. Each of these contracts expired on
December 31, 2000. Due to the Plan for Transformation, additional relocation services are still
required throughout the Authority. The Resolution for Item C3 seeks approval to exercise the
first one (1) year option period for each of the five contracts. Exercising this option will allow
the Authority to take advantage of the vendor prices for this option period, which was part of
each vendor's original bid. In addition, the contractors have either met or exceed the acceptable
level of performance.
RESOLUTION NO. 2001-CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Memorandum dated December 11, 2000 entitled, “Approval to Exercise Contract
Option For The First One Year Option Renewal of The Five Annual
Requirements Contracts for Resident Relocation Services Throughout the
Authority, IFB# 98044,” requesting authorization to exercise the first one (1) year
option period of the (5) five Resident Relocation Services Contracts with Midway
Movers, Big “O” Movers And Storage, Smith Movers, Reo Movers & Van Lines,
and C&H Joint Ventures for Resident Relocation Services.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is hereby authorized to exercise the
first one (1) year option period of the five (5) Resident Relocation Contracts each
for an amount not to exceed $200,000.00 per contract for resident relocation
services with the following five (5) moving firms: Midway Movers, Big “O”
Movers And Storage, Smith Movers, Reo Movers & Van Lines, and C&H Joint
Ventures subject to approval by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
development (HUD).

Motion to adopt said resolutions was seconded by Commissioner Amey and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Michael Darcy
Leticia Davis
Rahm Emanuel
Dr. Mildred Harris
Andrew Mooney
Sandra Young
Nays:

None
10

 There being no discussion on these items, Chairperson Gist Gilliam thereupon declared said
motion carried and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon motion made, seconded,
and carried, the meeting was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill
Custodian and Recorder of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chairperson

 