MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
June 15, 2004

The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held it’s Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
June 15, 2004, at 8:30 a.m. at the Lathrop Homes, Boys & Girls Club, 2915 North Leavitt,
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Absent:

Sandra Young

Also present were Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer; Gail Niemann, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Terry Peterson, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Peterson’s
report focused on the continuing efforts of staff, as reflected in the items to be presented for
Board approval, to make the Plan For Transformation a reality. Mr. Peterson then highlighted
activities related to the continuing work at Senior Housing and Altgeld. Mr. Peterson concluded
his report by encouraging residents and the public at large to visit the Chicago Historical Society
and see the exhibit on the new CHA.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session. Commissioner Ponce then
presented an omnibus Motion to approve Executive Session Item 1 through 3.

1

 (Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 2, 2004, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Actions Report for May 2004.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for May
2004.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-66
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 27, 2004
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Jenner & Block in
connection with Guzman, et. al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9874 with Jenner & Block to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed $200,000 in order to pay for legal
fees and expenses regarding Guzman et al. v. CHA, et al., 02 CH 10500.

(Executive Session Item 3)
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed a Board Letter dated May 27, 2004,
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Skadden & Arps in
connection with the Wallace, et al. v. CHA litigation,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 444 with Skadden & Arps to increase the
contract in an amount not to exceed $450,000 in order to pay for legal fees and
expenses regarding Wallace, et al. v. CHA, 03 C 491.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt Executive Session Items 1 through 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee,
Commissioner Ivers presented the Tenant Service Committee report. Per Commissioner Ivers,
the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, June 9,
2004, at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Meghan Harte, Managing Director for Resident
Services and representatives from Heartland Human Care Services presented the Committee
with an update on Social Services at Jazz on the Boulevard.

2

 Commissioner Ivers then introduced an omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item A1)
A Request For Proposal was issued to competitively solicit firms that could provide database
software for social service tracking for the Resident Service division. Those services include
designing and implementing a customizable social service tracking database, hosting the
database on a secure server, and providing support and training. In addition to advertising, ten
firms were solicited directly, of which two were MBEs. Based upon the review of the proposal
and the information gathered in the oral presentation, it was determined that although
Salesforce.com was the only vendor to respond to the solicitation, its proposal demonstrated their
ability to provide the required services. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves award
of contract to Salesforce.com.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 15, 2004,
titled “Authorization to negotiate and enter into a contract with SalesForce.com
for Case Management, Client Management and Business Contact Information
Services”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to negotiate and enter into a contract with Saleforce.com for case
management, client management and business contact information services for a
twelve (12) month base and one (1) year option in an aggregate amount not-toexceed $127,580.00.

(Item A2)
The purpose of the Summer Food Program is to extend the National Food program through the
summer vacation months to insure that boys and girls living in Chicago Housing Authority
developments receive the nutritional help needed for proper physical development. The Summer
Food Program is funded with a grant from the Illinois State Board of Education. Pursuant to the
Illinois State Board of Education’s specifications, the CHA submitted an Invitation For Bid to
furnish and deliver breakfast and lunch meals to various sites throughout the CHA for the
Summer Food Program. The IFB was also directly submitted to 13 vendors including one
MBE/WBE firm. Only one vendor, Open Kitchens, Inc., submitted a bid. The only response
was due in part to few USDA certified kitchens in the Chicago land area and few vendors met all
CHA requirements. Due to inadequate response, it was presented to the Sole Source/NonCompete Committee, which upon review agreed to recommend awarding the contract to Open
Kitchens. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A2 approves acceptance of the Illinois State
Board of Education Grant for the Summer Food Program and award of contract to Open
Kitchens, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-69
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated May 14, 2004, entitled: “A uthorization to accept a Grant from
the Illinois State Board of Education for the Summer Food Services Program and
enter into a Contract with Open Kitchens, Inc. for the 2004 Summer Food
Services Program.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept an Illinois State Board of Education Grant for the Summer
Food Program in the amount of $4,269,774.60 and to enter into a contract for the
2004 Summer Food Services Program with Open Kitchens, Inc., from June 23,
2004 to September 4, 2004 for a total amount not to exceed $2,540,763.00

3

 The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item A1 and A2 was seconded by Commissioner Harris
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Gates, Chairperson of the Operations & Facilities Committee, then presented the
Operations & Facilities Committee Report.
Per Commissioner Gates, the Operations &
Facilities Committee met on Wednesday, June 9, 2004. No presentations were scheduled to
come before this Committee.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
B1 through B8, discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
In March 2003, the CHA Board of Commissioners approved a contract award to McKissack &
McKissack for the provision of Managing Owner’s Representative (MOR) services. McKissack
has become an integral part of the CHA management team with respect to the Capital
Improvement Program and its central role in the Plan For Transformation. McKissack is
involved in a number of activities and areas of additional work that would be seriously impacted
if the reductions and/or phase-outs are allowed to occur. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1
approves amendment of contract with McKissack & McKissack for costs associated with
maintaining staffing levels authorized in the first year of the base contract through the second
year of the base contract. This resolution also approves amendment of $12,000 to cover
reimbursement for cost estimating services for the City/Sate portfolio that were not included in
the original base contract and $375,000 for the addition of delay claims analysis services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 7, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to amend Contract No. 0390 for Managing Owner’s
Representative Services with McKissack & McK issack Midwest, Inc. in the
amounts of $326,349.00 for extended staffing authorization, $12,000.00 for Cost
Estimating Services and $375,000.00 for Delay Claims Analysis Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0390 with McKissack & McK issack Midwest,
Inc. for the provision of Managing Owner’s Representative services to add
$326,349.00 to the original contract amount of $1,991,839.00. This increase is to
cover the added costs of maintaining the staffing levels authorized for the first
year of the base contract through the second year of the base contract (May 1,
2004 through April 30, 2005).

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0390 with McKissack & McKissack Midwest,
Inc. for the provision of Managing Owner’s Representative services to also add
$12,000.00 to cover reimbursement costs for cost estimating services already
provided by McKissack for the City/State portfolio. These costs were not
included in the original base contract.

4

 THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 0390 with McKissack & McKissack Midwest,
Inc. for the provision of delay claims analysis services for the not to exceed
amount of $375,000.00.
The new total contract amount will be $2,705,188.00

(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves contract modifications for Michuda for additional general
renovations at Lake Michigan Apartments. Modification G1 provides for additional labor and
materials to remove a CMU wall in adjacent apartments to provide access to a new piping
installation. Modification G2 provides for additional labor and materials to install new CMU
walls in the plumbing chases where walls were removed to provide access to a new piping
installation. Installation of the other CMU wall in the adjacent apartment is required to close the
chase of the new piping installation.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 6, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification Nos. G-01 and G-02 to Contract
No. 0420 with Michuda Construction for additional general renovations at Lake
Michigan Apartments at 4227 S. Oakenwald Ave. (IL2-041)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Numbers G-01 and G-02 to Contract
No. 0420 with Michuda Construction in the total modification amount of
$123,302.09 for additional necessary repairs at Lake Michigan Apartments, 4227
S. Oakenwald, which is a senior building being renovated under Contract Number
0420. The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0420, including all
modifications through G-02, is $6,707,530.09. The date for completion of the
general renovations at Lake Michigan Apartments is not extended

(Item B3)
In December 2003, a Request for Proposal (No. 01254) was advertised in area newspapers. The
CHA also directly solicited twenty-six firms, including thirteen MBE/WBE/DBE firms. Of the
sixteen proposals received and scored, thirteen firms were found to be in the competitive range.
Each of the thirteen firms made a presentation and submitted a best and final offer. Upon further
consideration of each Respondent following presentations, the Evaluation Committee
recommended five firms for seven contracts which were approved at the March 16, 2004 Board
Meeting, each contract corresponding to a site specified in the original RFP. Upon further
review, the Evaluation Committee recommends that a contract be awarded to DeStefano for
services at the Ickes Homes. Ickes Homes is one of the sites specified in the original RFP.
However, this contract was not awarded as part of the March 16th Board approval so that
additional information could be gathered by the Capital Construction Division and Department
of Procurement. That information has been reviewed and accordingly, the resolution for Item B3
awards contract to DeStefano for Prime Design Consulting Services at Ickes.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA -72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 17, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute contract with DeStefano and Partners for Prime
Design Consultant Services at Harold Ickes Homes (IL2-016)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with DeStefano and Partners in the amount of
$5,237,663.00 for Prime Design Consultant Services at Harold Ickes Homes. The
contract shall take effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed, and shall continue
until the end date indicated in the contract, subject to the Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance
requirements.

5

 (Item B4)
Similar to Item B3, the resolution for Item B4 approves award of contract to Holabird & Root for
Prime Design Consultant Services at Philip Murray Homes. The Murray Homes is one of the
sites specified in the original Request for Proposal (No. 01254). This contract was not awarded
as part of the resolution passed by the Board in March 2004 so that Procurement could gather
additional information before making a recommendation. That information has been received
and reviewed and staff recommended that the PDC contract be awarded to Holabird.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA -73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 4, 2004,
entitled “A uthorization to execute contract with Holabird & Root for Prime
Design Consultant Services at Philip Murray Homes (IL2-011)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Holabird & Root in the amount of
$2,454,375.00 for Prime Design Consultant Services. The contract shall take
effect on the date of the Notice to Proceed, and shall continue until the end date
indicated in the contract, sub ject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and insurance requirements.

(Item B5)
The resolution for Item B5 approves Modification No. G-17 to contract No. 9708 with Michuda
Construction for additional general renovations at Lincoln & Sheffield Apartments. This
modification specifically provides for additional labor and materials to install a new fire alarm
system, fire doors, draining fountains and associated plumbing which are part of the latest
correction requested by the City of Chicago Department of Construction and Permits issued in
post bid time.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA -74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated May 6, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-17 to Contract No. 9708
with Michuda Construction for additional General Renovations at Lincoln &
Sheffield Apartments (IL2-061)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-17 to Contract No. 9708
with Michuda Construction for a total amount of $ 103,337.59 for additional
general renovations at Lincoln & Sheffield Apartments, 2640 N. Sheffield (IL2061), which is a senior building being renovated under this contract. The new
total contract amount of Contract No. 9708 is $28,702,998.36 including all
previous contract modifications. The date for completion of the general
renovations is not extended.

(Item B6)
The resolution for Item B6 approves amendment of Contract with G.F. Structures. Contract
amendment G-01 is needed to provide labor and material to furnish and install an emergency
natural gas generator system at Midwest Terrace Senior Apartments. The work will include one
200KV generator and the associated required equipment. In addition, this modification covers
the foundation, and an enclosure for the generator. The contractor will coordinate the efforts of
Com Ed and any sub-contractors and will comply with the requirements of the City of Chicago
Building Department and applicable codes. The work covered under this modification is Owner
Directed.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated June 4, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-01 to Contract No. 0423
with G. F. Structures Corporation for Additional General Rehabilitation at
Midwest Terrace Apartments (IL2-043)”;

6

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Contract Modification Number G-01 to Contract No. 0423
with G. F. Structures in the amount of $259,373.08 for additional necessary
repairs at Mid west Terrace Apartments, 150 S. Campbell Ave. The new total
contract amount of Contract No. 0423 is $7,390,415.08. The date for completion
of the general rehabilitation at Midwest Terrace Apartments is not extended.

(Item B7)
In late 2003 a contractual payment dispute arose between McCormack Baron, CHA’s private
property management company for Wells development, and Access Denied, a sole proprietor
that installs and maintains security metal doors and windows. In February 2004, the U.S.
District Court entered an agreed order allowing Access Denied to remove 50 security board-up
panels per day. As Access Denied removed panels McCormack Baron began using VPS to
replace them. Due to the exigent circumstances caused by the removal of the security board-up
equipment, the replacement cost exceeded $100,000. Asset Management initiated a request to
the Procurement Department to enable McCormack Baron to non-competitively enter into an
agreement with VPS to continue replacement of all the security equipment at Wells.
Accordingly, the Resolution for Item B7 retroactively approves McCormack Baron’s agreement
with VPS for security board-up equipment at Wells for a total amount not to exceed $421,440
and approves an increase in McCormack Barron’s operating budget in the amount of $191,123 to
enable it to pay VPS for the remainder of the replacement security board-up equipment.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-76
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated June 7, 2004,
entitled, “Retroactive approval of Agreement between McCormack Baron
Management Services, Inc. and Vacant Property Security, Inc. for Replacement of
Security Board-Up Equipment at Ida B. Wells”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, based upon exigent circumstances, hereby
retroactively approves the noncompetitive agreement based upon exigent
circumstances entered into by McCormack Baron with Vacant Property Security,
Inc. for security board-up services at the Ida B. Wells Development in the amount
of $421,440.00. The Board also authorizes an increase of $191,123.00 in
McCormack Baron’s operating budget to enable it to pay the balance due VPS for
the replacement security board-up equipment.

(Item B8)
The resolution for Item B8 approves amendment of Contract No. 9894, in the amount of
$900,000, with Vacant Property Security for security board- up services. In September 2002, the
Board approved a 2-year base term contract with an option to extend for one additional year. As
initially contemplated, the CHA used the Contract’s funding to pay obligations for long term
leases. However, some of the long term leases expired a month or so and were renewed prior to
the effective date of the contract. The cost to extend those long term leases was $371,510.84.
Additionally, $144,559.50 was used to pay an obligation to VPS for board-up equipment leased
for Taylor. These two major expenses, plus a greater than anticipated need to utilize VPS during
the first year of the contract caused the Contract to exceed the previously authorized funding.
Additionally, VPS estimates for existing short/long term leases through August 31, 2004,
(contract expiration date) will total $85,181.99. The estimated cost to extend the contract
through December 31, 2004 is $47,262.28. Furthermore, several buildings in Cabrini, Horner
and Taylor are scheduled to be vacated and CHA will not yet be prepared to have the PPM’s to
take over the responsibility for management of board-up services. The estimated cost for units
that may require security board-up equipment is approximately $197,000.00. Accordingly,
CHA’s current payment obligation and future payments as they become due, and to cover any
emergency situations that may arise, total $900,000.

7

 RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-77
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated June 4, 2004 entitled “Authorization to Modify Contract No.
9894 with Vacant Property Security, Inc. for Security Board-Up Services”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee, to modify Contract No. 9894 (“Contract”) with Vacant property
Systems, Inc. (“VPS”) to increase the not-to-exceed compensation amount of the
Contract by $900,000 to cover the current payment obligations and future
payments as they become due for board- up services at Cabrini, Horner and Taylor
that may be required and any emergency situations that may arise between now
and December 31, 2004, and to exercise the Contract’s existing option to extend
the Contract for an additional term from September 1, 2004 through August 31,
2005.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B8 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Martin Nesbitt, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit Committee, presented his
monthly report. Per Commissioner Nesbitt, the Finance & Audit Committee meeting was held
on Wednesday, June 9, 2004, and the Chief Financial Officer and his staff presented the
Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of May 28, 2004.
Commissioner Nesbitt then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of resolutions for Items
C1 and C3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit
Committee.
(Item C1)
The Authority in the past and currently has contracted with a Third Party Administrator (TPA) to
provide claim services to both the Authority and Private Managers Insurance Program (PMIP).
The Request for Proposal was released in January 2004, however, due to inadequate competition
was cancelled. A new RFP was re-solicited in March 2004 and was mailed to fourteen TPA’s
and advertised in area newspapers. Of the three proposals received, Cannon Cochran
Management Services, Inc. (CCMSI) was chosen due to their ability to best meet the Authority’s
needs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves award of contract to CCMSI.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-78
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the memorandum dated June 2, 2004,
entitled “Authorization to Enter Into a Contract with Cannon Cochran
Management Services, Inc. for Third Party Administrator Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a two-year contract with CCMSI to provide Third Party
8

 Administrator Services for the period July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2006 in an
amount not-to-exceed $679,425 with three (3) one- year extension options, subject
to HUD approval, if required.

(Item C2 - This Number Not Used)

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves amendment of the CHA Ethics Policy. The CHA’s Ethics
Policy has been amended to clarify and strengthen a variety of provisions as well as to comply
with the new state ethics legislation recently passed by the Illinois General Assembly. The
amended policy will provide clearer guidance to CHA employees as well as those who do
business with the CHA and will hold CHA employees and officials to high standards of conduct
befitting public employees.
RESOLUTION NO. 2004-CHA-79
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 26, 2004,
entitled “Authorization for Approval of Amended Ethics Policy”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the amended Ethics Policy and
authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to approve any further
changes to the Ethics Policy.

THAT,

this Ethics Policy replaces any and all previously Board-approved Ethics policies.

THAT,

this amendment of the Ethics Policy supersedes any and all conflicting language
found in existing CHA policies and procedures.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 and C3 was seconded by Commissioner
Ponce and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Martin Nesbitt
Carlos Ponce

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

9

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 