RESOLUTION SBD #19-49

I 550 W. Algonquin Road

Arlington Heights, Illinois 60005

Connecting Communities 847.364.8l 30
PaceBus.com

Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transportation Authority
550 West Algonquin Road
Arlington Heights, Illinois
Open Session of the Board of Directors
May 8, 2019

The Board of Directors of Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transportation
Authority, met in public session on Wednesday, May 8, 2019 at 4:30 pm. at Pace corporate
headquarters, 550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, Illinois, pursuant to notice.
Chairman Kwasneski led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Chairman Kwasneski called the meeting to order at 4:30 pm.

Roll Call

Directors physically present: Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Hastings, Larson, Marcucci,
Schielke, Soto, and Chairman Kwasneski.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Claar seconded a motion to allow Director Shepley to
attend Via teleconference. The motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Director Shepley joined the meeting Via teleconference immediately following the vote.

Director} Tamley was absent.

Director Wells joined the meeting at 4:36 pm.

SBD #19-38 Resolution approving the minutes of the Open Session meeting of April 10, 2019.

Director Larson moved, and Director Soto seconded a motion to approve the minutes of the
Open Session meeting of April 10, 2019. The motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Public Comment

Heather inquired about the Vision update wanting to know if paratransit vehicles will
be dispatched like Uber drivers where there could be multiple vehicles in the area and Pace
would send a vehicle that has accommodations for people like herself? Melinda Metzger

Richard A. Kwasneski, Chairman
Christopher S. Canning Terrance M. Carr Roger C. Claar David B. Guerin Kyle R. Hastings AI Larson
Thomas D. Marcucci Jeffery D. Schielke Aaron T. Shepley Linda Soto Karen Tamley Terry R. Wells
Board of Directors
Rocky Donahue, Executive Director

 

 

April 10, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 2

commented that the vision update presentation later in the board meeting will not be addressing
individual services.

Garland commented about the board meetings beginning in June. He asked which
Wednesday?s the meeting will be held, because there could be other meetings he is involved with
occurring at the same time, such as CMAP. Director Kwasneski commented it is proposed that
Pace?s board meetings be held on the third Wednesday of the month and that consideration was
taken in scheduling to eliminate con?icts.

Report of Chairman

Chairman Kwasneski reported he spent much time in Spring?eld, Illinois. The RTA, Directors
Carr, Guerin, and Soto, Rocky Donahue, and Melinda Metzger were also present in Spring?eld.
Chairman Kwasneski attended a meeting with House Speaker Michael Madigan, giving him a
?wish list? of projects Pace would like to see funded in the Capital Bill. The majority of that
meeting was spent giving information about services that Pace provides in addition to fixed-route
service; highlights included Bus on Shoulder, Call-n?Ride, and ADA Paratransit. Chairman
Kwasneski also attended a meeting with Senate President John Cullerton to express support for a
capital bill. President Cullerton raised the issue that the only way a capital bill would be passed
is if a progressive tax is passed. A meeting was held with House Leader Jim Durkin who is very
supportive of transit and a capital bill; however, funding for a capital bill would not be
contingent upon any progressive tax or any other bill.

Chairman Kwasneski and Rocky Donahue participated in a press conference with State Senator
Sandoval (Chairman of the Transportation Committee) and Senator DeWitte (minority
spokesperson), both represented that with support, it may pass through the Senate within a
week?Bill Number 2033 Senate Amendment One. Chairman Kwasneski thanked Pace Board
members for their participation in Spring?eld.

Chairman Kwasneski attended an Illinois Municipal League conference last week, and the Will
County Governmental League open house where a number of legislators were also in attendance.

Chairman Kwasneski reported Pace will hold a ribbon cutting ceremony at Pace?s Plainfield
Park-n?Ride on June 27, 2019.

Chairman Kwasneski, Rocky Donahue, and Beth Gonzalez, are working with a company called
CenterPoint Properties to plan to build a combination work force services center/marketing
center/transit center that would be in the middle of their intermodal facility and improve transit
access for riders in oliet/Elwood.

Directors? Reports

Director Canning thanked his colleagues on the Board and Rocky for all of their hard work in
Spring?eld.

April 10, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 3

Director Carr reported he attended the Transportation Day in Spring?eld, along with others.
Director Carr saw the President of the Senate at a fundraiser that Commissioner Tobolski from
the Cook County Board was throwing and who conveyed he is very much in favor of funding for
transportation and will do all he could for this in the capital bill.

Director Guerin thanked the Board Members and Rocky Donahue for their involvement in
Spring?eld, and especially to Rocky Donahue who did a great job explaining Pace?s needs for
funding.

Director Schielke reported that in his capacity as Chairman of the Chicago Metropolitan Agency
for Flaming and its Council of Mayors, he was asked to attend a press conference held by the
RTA and its associated members at Union Station. DirectOr Schielke said Rocky attended and
did a great job representing Pace and conveying Pace?s need for funding.

Director Soto thanked Rocky Donahue and Chairman Kwasneski for doing an excellent job
representing Pace in Spring?eld. She believes there will be various funding mechanisms that
must be changed or adopted in order to support a Capital Bill. Transportation funding must be
sustainable in that it should be available every year, rather than every ten years. Director Soto
reported while the Senate Subcommittee has been traveling the state, it had a hearing on May 3,
2019 in Lake County. Director Soto gave testimony on behalf of the Lake County Transportation
Alliance, and also advocated for Pace and its services in Lake County.

Director Shepley reported the Lake City Council brought a proposal being pushed by
McHenry County to change the route of its only ?xed route in Lake to accommodate
easier access to riders. The proposal was to route the bus through a residential area on roads that
are not very well equipped to accommodate bus traf?c. The City of Lake voted not to
make the change, and Pace was instrumental in its actions by not forcing the re?route issue.
Lake will continue to explore new and creative ways to provide the transit service needed
in the manner that makes the most sense. Director Shepley thanked Rocky Donahue, Mary
Donner, and all Pace staff for their efforts on this issue.

Report of Executive Director

Rocky Donahue thanked Chairman Kwasneski and the Board members advocating on behalf of
Pace in Spring?eld. Rocky also thanked Directors Canning, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Wells
and Shepley for speaking with their legislators in the district.

The FTA Triennial review will take place in September, Colette Gordon and the Internal Audit
department are gathering information requested and will keep the Board informed as necessary.

APTA awarded Pace a Certi?cate of Merit for bus safety and security programs. Congratulations
to Melinda Metzger, her staff, and Safety Of?cer, Shari Pappas.

April 10, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 4

On Monday, May 13, 2019, a joint (Chicago and Suburban) ADA Advisory Committee Meeting
will be held at Willis Tower and Chairman Kwasneski will give an opening statement on What?s
happening at Pace.

Ridership is down 6% for the year as a whole, but it was down 8% through March. With the

warmer weather, we are seeing a little bit of a bounce-back. Two divisions are seeing ridership
increases, Heritage Division which is up 2.3% due primarily to the Bus on Shoulder and
North Shore Division, which Pace restructured last year, is up These increases
demonstrate our need for a new Strategic Plan which will be presented later in this meeting.

Pace?s budget is $2.2 million positive through March on Suburban Services, and $3.7 positive on
ADA Paratransit.

Action Items

SBD #19-39 Ordinance authorizing the change in dates and time for the 2019 regularly
scheduled meetings of the Board of Directors of Pace. Beginning June 19, 2019, public meetings
of the Pace Board of Directors will begin at 9:30 am. and be held on the third Wednesday of the
month, except November which will be held on the second Wednesday of the month.

Director Larson moved, and Director Marcucci seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski. Eleven
Directors voted Aye, Director Schielke voted Nay.

SBD #19-40 Ordinance authorizing the award of a contract to Nelson\Nygaard Consulting
Associates, Inc. for Consulting Services for the Design and Implementation of the oliet Express
Bus Study in an amount not to exceed $360,351.00.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Marcucci seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-41 Ordinance authorizing a change order to Contract Number 215192 with Holabird
Root, LLC for Professional Architectural and Engineering Services for Pace Heritage Division
Bus Garage Mid-Life Improvements. This action increases the contract total from $847,424.60 to
$882,653.06, an increase of $35,228.46.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Soto seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Shepley, Soto, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski. All Directors voted Aye.

April 10, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 5

SBD #19-42 Ordinance authorizing the award of a contract to ElDorado National (California),
Inc. for the Purchase, Manufacture, and Delivery of Thirty-Foot Low Floor Diesel Transit Buses
in an amount not to exceed $80,261,908.00.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-43 Ordinance authorizing the award of a contract to Lechner and Sons, Inc. for Shop
Uniform Rental Services in an amount not to exceed $681,977.20.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-44 Ordinance authorizing the award of a contract to Cook DuPage Transportation
Company, Inc. for South Cook County Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Paratransit
Services in an amount not to exceed $145,034,897.80.

Director Claar moved, and Director Canning seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye. 

SBD #19-45? Ordinance authorizing a change order to Contract Number 225872 with Mythics,
Inc. for Oracle Hardware Refresh and Advanced Monitoring and Resolution Services.
This action increases the contract total from $5,040,208.78 to $5,997,006.98, an increase of
$956,798.20.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Soto seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

Issues/Discussions/Reports

Ryan Ruehle, Rapid Transit Corridor Planner, Service Planning, gave a report on the Strategic
Vision Plan. He spoke of the hard work the entire agency is putting into the process?from the
Board of Directors9 Committee on Planning to the dozens of Pace employees who participated in
working groups and steering committee meetings. Many non-bargained for employees also
completed a survey, and additional surveys are now being conducted at our Divisions. Early

April 10, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 6

conversations with employees found ?ve top areas for focus: technology, Bus on Shoulder and
Pulse Express Service, internal communication, funding instability, and customer
communication.

Organizational goals include improved adaptability, collaboration, diversity, environmental
stewardship, ?scal solvency, and transparency. Service goals include increased accessibility,
dependability, equity, productivity, and responsiveness. The name of the new strategic vision
plan is ?Driving Innovation.?

Adjournment

Chairman Kwasneski asked for a motion to adjourn into Closed Session for the purposes of
discussing closed session minutes (2-C-21) and pending litigation (2-C-11). Director Schielke
moved, and Director Larson seconded the motion. The motion passed with a unanimous vote
from the Board of Directors at 5:30 pm.

Reconvene

Chairman Kwasneski reconvened the Open Session of the Pace Board of Directors meeting at
5:55 pm.

Directors physically present: Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Hastings, Larson, Marcucci,
Schielke, Soto, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski.

Director Shepley attended the meeting via teleconference.
Director Tamley was absent.

SBD #19-46? Resolution approving the minutes of the Closed Session meeting of April 10,
201 9.

Director Claar moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Resolution. The
motion passed with a unanimous vote.

SBD #19-47 Ordinance approving action in the case of Randale Brooks Pace and Anthony
Sloss; Cook County Case No. 17 1259, as discussed in Closed Session.

Director Hastings moved, and Director Schielke seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

April 10, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 7

Adjournment

There being no further business, Chairman Kwasneski asked for a motion and a second to
adjourn the meeting.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to adjourn the Pace Board of
Directors meeting. The motion passed With a unanimous vote. The meeting adjourned at 5:57
pm.

The next regular meeting of the Pace Board of Directors will be held on Wednesday, June 19,
2019 at 9:30 am. at Pace Corporate Headquarters, 550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington
Heights, Illinois.

aa/W a?/m

Karen Kase
Acting Secretary, Board of Directors

 

