STAFF REPORT 06-26-2019 MEETING

PREPARED BY: A. PHILLIPS

APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6286
ADDRESS: 4130 TRUMBULL
HISTORIC DISTRICT: WOODBRIDGE FARM
APPLICANT: JASON JONES, TEKTON DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSAL
The project site, located at 4130 Trumbull Street, is a vacant lot owned by the applicant. The parcel is situated on the
east side of Trumbull approximately mid-block between W Alexandrine and W Willis Streets. The vacant lot is flanked
by a c.1900, 2 ½ story, multi-family residence to the south and a c.1900, 2 ½ story, single-family house to the north.
The west side of Trumbull between W Alexandrine and W Willis Streets, although not included within the Woodbridge
Farm Historic District boundaries, is completely occupied and includes a variety of single-family, multi-family, and
apartment buildings ranging in construction date from the 1880s to the early 1920s. In 2003 the Historic District
Commission approved the demolition ruined of the 1889, 2 ½ story, single-family dwelling that existed on the site.

With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to erect a new multi-family (6 units),
3-story building at the project site per the attached drawings. According to the applicant:
“The front façade motif is planned to employ mostly brick and is accented with glass, wood, and metal siding
in order to effectuate a historically considerate, yet clean and lively aesthetic. The residential units will be flat,
apartment-style and are approximately 1,050 square feet. There will be a 6-car garage in the rear offering one
space per unit for the resident’s parking. The garage will be accessed through the rear alley.
The floor plans within this project are designed to maximize the living experience of the resident. The singular
goal is to provide serenity and privacy while maintain a strong connection to the Woodbridge neighborhood at
large. The plans offer great natural light through large windows in every room and two separate large

 balconies. One directly accessible from the living room and one off the master bedroom as well. As is required
within quality contemporary design, the plans offer an open floor plan and have great ceiling heights topping
out at 10 feet. The kitchens present stone counter tops and stainless-steel appliances as standard appointments.
The living areas offer hardwood floors throughout the living spaces and have ample closet space. These units
will be structured as condominium units and will be sold at completion of the project to residential
homeowners.”

STAFF OBSERVATIONS
As noted in the Woodbridge Farm designation report, historically, the district has been primarily residential in use
and has included a variety of housing types (single-family, multi-family, apartment buildings) designed in multiple
architectural styles.
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
1. Height. The buildings in the district range from one (1) to five (5) stories tall; the majority being two and one-half (2
1/2) stories tall, meaning they have two (2) full stories with an attic or a finished third floor within the roof. Multi-unit
apartment buildings range from two (2) to five (5) stories.
2. Proportion of buildings' front facades. Proportion varies in the district, depending on style, size and age of the
buildings. Victorian single-family buildings and the larger apartment buildings are usually taller than wide to the eaves;
duplexes and two (2) and three (3)-story multi-unit buildings are often wider than tall or as tall as wide. Elements above
the eaves, such as turrets and gables, increase the appearance of height where they exist.
3. Proportion of openings within the facade. Areas of voids generally constitute between fifteen (15) percent and
thirty-five (35) percent of the front facades, excluding the roof. Many buildings have window openings within the roof, in
dormers, gables or towers, adding to the number of voids. Most window openings are taller than wide, although when
grouped together might achieve a horizontal effect. Queen Anne and Romanesque style buildings may have some square
and/or arched openings. Transoms over windows and doors are wider than tall. Window openings in gables, turrets,
and/or foundations are often square or arched. A great variety of sizes, shapes and groupings of openings exist in the
district.
4. Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. Most single- and two-family houses of the late Victorian era display a
great freedom in placement of openings within the facades. Voids in Italianate dwellings are generally more regularly
arranged than those in Queen Anne or Romanesque-style buildings. Apartment buildings show a regular arrangement of
voids.
5. Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of buildings was generally determined by the setback from
the side lot lines. Because of the number of buildings lost to demolition, the original rhythm has been disturbed.
Consequently, the present spacing of buildings on the street does not establish any particular rhythm. There is an
appearance of a more intact streetscape where there are rows of houses on some segments of Trumbull.
6. Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Steps and porches exist on all of the residential buildings in the
district. The positions of porches contribute to the variety of design of the houses; front porches are frequently off to one
side of the front facades of single-family houses and at both sides or in the centers of the front facades on duplexes. No
consistent progression of front porches contributing to the streetscape exists because of the vacant land between houses
due to building demolition. Rear porches and side porches exist on most of the houses throughout the district.
7. Relationship of materials. The district exhibits a wide variety of building materials characteristic of Victorian
architecture. Brick is prevalent; there are a few wood frame houses. Some Queen Ann-style houses have brick first stories
and wooden, either shingled or clapboard, second stories. Some wooden houses have been covered with asphalt shingles.
Stone foundations and trim, either limestone, red sandstone, or concrete, were frequently used in combination with brick.
Wooden details and trim are prevalent. Original slate roofs exist, although asphalt shingle roofs have replaced many of the
original roofs. Slate is also visible on some gables and towers. One house on Trumbull is stucco. There are a few houses
in which the original wooden siding is covered with asphalt siding resembling brick; and the church on Willis east of
Lincoln is clad in artificial clapboard-type siding.
8. Relationship of textures. The most common textural relationship in the Victorian buildings is that of several materials

 juxtaposed within the same building to create a variety of rich textural effects. Brick with mortar joints is the most
common textural effect, and often contrasts with the texture of other masonry and/or wood. Where wooden second stories
exist over brick first stories, textural contrast is created. Wooden shingles and/or clapboard on wood frame houses on
Lincoln create substantial textural interest, as does carved or repetitious wooden detail. Smooth or rough-faced stone
foundations and detail provide substantial textural contrast. Varying patterns of imbricated shingles or slates, when used
on the same buildings, create textural interest. Whereas slate and wood shingle on roofs and in gables create substantial
textural interest, asphalt shingled roofs generally do not contribute to textural interest.
9.Relationship of colors. Paint colors generally relate to style. Victorian buildings display freedom in the selection and
placement of color; other buildings in the district generally do not. Orange-red brick frequently contrasting with light gray
stone or red stone is the most common color relationship. Where brick buildings are painted, red is the most common
color although other colors, such as green and light gray, are also present. The one stucco building is painted red.
Window trim and sash colors include brown, gray, pale yellow, green, red, and white and generally relate to style. The
Venice apartments are yellow brick contrasted with light gray masonry and red window frames. The Kenwood Apts. has
light brown brick on its front facade and common orange brick on other elevations. The most common roof colors are
brown, dark gray, green, and black and these are generally in the natural slate or stained wood shingle color range. One
green tile roof in deteriorating condition exists on Lincoln. Colors known to have been in use on buildings of similar type
in the nineteenth and early twentieth century may be considered for suitability on similar buildings. Original color
schemes for any given building may be determined by professional paint analysis and when so determined are always
appropriate for that building.
10. Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to style. The majority of the buildings in
the district are from the Victorian period and are of the Italianate, Second Empire, Queen Anne and Richardsonian
Romanesque styles. Porches, window hoods and trim, cornices, dormers, turrets and gables are frequently treated with
stylistic details in stone, wood, or brick, Neo-Georgian, arts and crafts and prairie buildings display simpler detail, usually
around the windows, cornice, or within panels, in general, buildings in the district are rich in architectural details.
11. Relationship of roof shapes. A multiplicity of roof types exist, and frequently within the same building. The
predominant forms of roof are the hipped, mansard and gabled varieties, frequently punctured with dormers, sometimes
with intersecting gables and conical roofs over towers. Porch roofs are in keeping with the style of the house. Victorian
buildings generally have roofs of greater complexity than those of later styles in the district. Some commercial buildings
and apartment buildings have flat roofs not seen from the street.
12. Walls of continuity. Primary walls of continuity are created by consistent setbacks of adjacent building facades.
Where there are rows of intact buildings, primarily on stretches of Trumbull, a wall of continuity exists; where there have
been many buildings removed, primarily of Lincoln, the original wall of continuity is destroyed. The regular placement of
O.P. lighting poles on Trumbull creates a secondary wall of continuity; this does not exist on Lincoln.
13. Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The Lincoln streetscape consists of a
seventy-foot right¬-of-way with the widths of tree lawns varying by block, although most are narrow. The Trumbull rightof-way is eighty (80) feet; tree lawns are also narrow. The Gibson right-of-way is mostly forty (40) feet wide and serves
primarily as an alley to the houses on the east side of Lincoln. Characteristic treatment of individual properties is a flat or
slightly graded shallow front lawn area in grass turf subdivided by a straight concrete walk leading to the front entrance
and a concrete walk along the side of the building; there are very few driveways, none being original. On Trumbull, tree
lawns are graded up to the public sidewalk, which is approached from the curb by a concrete step. Sidewalks are concrete;
alleys are either paved in concrete, asphalt or brick. Curbs on Lincoln south of Selden are concrete and north of Selden
are red stone; those on Trumbull are primarily red stone. Lighting poles are of the O.P. variety on Trumbull and on
Lincoln are modern steel cranes atop wooden telephone poles. Black wrought iron fencing is occasionally used for front
yard fencing-, modern chain link fences predominate in the district. They are frequently used along the rear property line,
such as along Gibson, sometimes with other types of fencing along the sides and front. Stockade and wood board fencing
is used occasionally along rear and side lot lines. Some buildings, especially on Trumbull, have chain link fencing running
along the front lot lines. Wrought iron balusters and railings with hedges behind front the former Scripps Estate at the
southwest corner of the district. Shrubs and plantings in front of fences and along the sides of fences on corner lots
throughout the district are also common.
14.Relationship of open space to structures. Large amounts of open space have been created by demolition of
structures. Both the northern and southern boundaries of the district are surrounded by open field. Ample side yards have
been created where previously there would have been houses, primarily on Lincoln. Most properties have shallow rear
yards, with the primary exception of those fronting on Selden and the larger apartment buildings, which have no yards

 except where vacant land around them has been created due to demolition. There are a few garages along the rear lot
lines. The Scripps Carriage House on Brainard near Trumbull stands alone without the Scripps House, which was
demolished. In the visual sense the large areas of open space do not read as having function, but seem to demand
appropriate new infill construction.
15. Scale of facades and facade elements. The scale of houses in the district range from small to large. The elements
within the moderate to large scale Victorian building divide their facades into large segments, such as towers, gables,
dormers, verandas and bays. Details within those elements are usually small scaled. The small scaled colonial revival
apartment building on Trumbull has a large scale applied portico. Prairie and Neo-Georgian facades are moderate in scale
with restrained detail within. Apartment buildings range from small to large in scale.
16.Directional expression of front elevations. Directional expression often relates to style. The majority of buildings in
the district have vertically expressed front facades. Duplexes and small multi-unit buildings of any style may be horizontal
or neutral in expression, excluding the roofs, but vertical projections above the eaves, such as gables, turrets and dormers,
sometimes contribute to a vertical appearance.
17. Rhythm of building setbacks. Setbacks are usually consistent within each block but, due to building demolition,
there is little consistency of rhythm in the streetscape. Large apartment buildings and later commercial buildings are not at
the setback of the older houses; they are closer to the sidewalk. Buildings fronting on Selden are also close to the
sidewalk.
18. Relationship of lot coverage. The original relationship of structures to land has been altered by building demolition.
Frequently several lots are combined to form one large lot or side lot. Buildings occupy approximately between forty (40)
to ninety-five (95) percent of their original building sites, not including vacant lots that may have been later added to the
property.
19. Degree of complexity within the facade. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is appropriate for a
given style. The Victorian buildings exhibit complex massing, multiple roof forms, colors, materials, and textures within
their facades. Other styles are less complex.
20. Orientation, vistas, overviews. Most buildings are oriented towards the north-south avenues, Lincoln and Trumbull,
with the primary exception being on Selden, where many of the buildings are oriented towards Selden. The large
apartment buildings are located in the southern portion of Lincoln. The building in the Trumbull Avenue Presbyterian
Church Historic District across from the southeast comer of the district provides visual terminus for the district. Vacant
land at the north and south ends outside the district provide a physical and visual buffer. The Jeffries Public Housing is to
the east of the district. Where they exist, garages are generally oriented towards the alley but may also be reached from
the front.
21. Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. Few buildings are symmetrical in appearance but most have a balanced
composition. The Victorian buildings generally exhibit an asymmetrical appearance. Classically derived, prairie, and arts
and crafts buildings are generally symmetrical.
22. General environmental character. Woodbridge Farm is a pocket of primarily late Victorian middle-class residential
architecture and later apartment buildings off of Grand River and Martin Luther King Blvd. Due to the loss of original
housing, the appearance of the neighborhood is altered; there is no longer an intact streetscape; instead, some blocks read
as individual houses. Visually, appropriate infill construction seems demanded. The Jeffries Homes creates a visual
boundary to the east; the Woodbridge Neighborhood to the west provides continuity to the Woodbridge Farms Area. The
character of Trumbull Avenue is slightly more commercial than Lincoln due to the intrusion of small scale commercial
buildings and some institutional uses located in formerly residential buildings.

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Commission find the project scope, as proposed, to be appropriate as it meets the following
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation:
• 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its

 environment.
However, staff recommends that the Commission issue this COA with the following conditions:
• Applicant to submit all building material and product cut sheets/brochures for staff review prior to the
issuance of the COA.
• HDC staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final construction documents prior to
the issuance of the COA.

 . .. 
T?rumbu'llplex. I

1 Ist 
?1 g.

tri*Tn?umlaun?me 

VermpAl%andrme-Pirki . . . . ?atvi-Ip ?Tfa?l' 
. 

Dbuglg Detrni'

Eagle 

 

.11

. .
.l A

#3 

mbull Avenue'i'q?

If

a Tm

 

 

I'll-11 Tl. limg.

is ..-.

Ill-nil

..

k. 

.. ..
in. 

.I





   

.xk\rn-Ix?x?l I I but I II.
agiuiir. Evin..unnw 

 

.IItill I .I In
I
I I .II. 

 

 

 

 

-. ..
.111.I.II.I. 

 

HI.

Julia-?NEH ?lm.
?11 .1. l1]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eligi??ign. 

:IrniI.Jlr.?.i..14.,


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.I..-- Iiil


 

 

..I. . .-...I. I..11..1 11.1.1 ?hi 

a .
Emmy-.. diti?trurnta?..H. w? .


1.1.. 



31.11.?! . Tug-nun-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
HIhl 1i - - .IPHEKLEIHH . WEI. 1. Fl maul-Flu. I 3. i1- kWh-Ell 

II. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


- I . 
.II-lITKIyI-Ilrlx. I..IlII[Jill - II..- 1..-.-I In. I-.. .lm I I illil?o 11.11.41]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ir .7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

II
.lIIl .. . I. I . I . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

01

REPORT

Project Narrative:
The project located at 4130 Trumbuill is a new construction,
multi-family residential infill project. The structure is designed
as a 3-story structure with two residential units on each of the
floors. The front facade motif is planned to employ mostly brick
and is accented with glass, wood, and metal siding in order
to effectuate a historically considerate, yet clean and lively
aesthetic. The residential units will be flat, apartment-style and
are approximately 1,050 square feet. There will be a 6-car
garage in the rear offering one space per unit for the resident’s
parking. The garage will be accessed through the rear alley.
The floor plans within this project are designed to maximize the
living experience of the resident. The singular goal is to provide
serenity and privacy while maintain a strong connection to the
Woodbridge neighborhood at large. The plans offer great natural
light through, large windows in every room and two separate
large balconies. One directly accessible from the living room and
one off the master bedroom as well. As is required within quality
contemporary design, the plans offer an open floor plan and
have great ceiling heights topping out at 10 feet. The kitchens
present stone counter tops and stainless-steel appliances as
standard appointments. The living areas offer hardwood floors
throughout the living spaces and have ample closet space. These
units will be structured as condominium units and will be sold at
completion of the project to residential homeowners.

  

02 REPORT . . 

 

SITE VIEW

1? 
1.

 

2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

REPORT

ZONING:
USE:
DIMENSION STANDARDS:

SITE PLAN & ZONING

OFF STREET PARKING:
FAR MAXIMUM:
RSR REQUIRED:

R-3 Zoning District: Woodbridge Farm Historic District
Multiple-Family Use Allowed by Right
Minimum Lot size Dimensions: Seven thousand (7,000) square feet & Seventy (70) feet in width - Actual Lot Area= 7,440 square feet
Front Setback: 20 feet - Actual = Contextual Setback Aligned with Adjacent Buildings 15 feet
Rear Setback: 30 feet
Side Setback: Formula A building length + 2 (building height) = Actual = 70 feet + 2 (40 feet) = 10’-6”
15
15
Contextual Height Restriction
4 (Located within .5 miles of high frequency corridor)
Actual = 6 provided in rear of property
.7 Lot area ( + 1/2 Adjacent Alley) = 8,040 square feet X .7 = 5,628 square feet allowed - Actual = 4,147 sf
(61-13-15 (1) Alley As Part of Lot - Alley width 20 feet)
.12 Lot area ( + 1/2 Adjacent Alley) = 8,040 square feet X .12 = 965 square feet required - Actual = 2,246 sf
(61-13-15 (1) Alley As Part of Lot - Alley width 20 feet)

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

03

 Oh



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16-11 1/2?

91-1?
44'-5 1/2"

 

 

18'-5?

 

 

 

 

 

mm_l?w:
3% 
Tull; 
22x DIE 

1 
w. 
5 
EEO >mm> xzoImz $980: wmomoo06m 32:2 SE: Emz>mm> ANA QC memOOZ memOOZ 
8 
/w>E 

22x UIE 
ETWTL a a
warm iro 


 

 

1.003 

 

2019 BAILEY BUILT. PLLC

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE DETROIT

05 REPORT

56I_Oll



 

 

 

 

 

 

56-GARAGE 
--
(6VEHICLES20?-6" 
I 
53
22-4" 

GARAGE DETAILS

 

 

EXTERIOR FACE BRICK TYP. PREFINISHED EXTERIOR WOOD
SIDING SYSTEM 

METAL EXTERIOR DOORS WITH

HOLLOW METAL FRAMES TYP.

EPDM ROOFING SYSTEM
SLOPED TO CONTINUOUS METAL OVRHEAD DOORS TYP.
METAL GUTTER SYSTEM, TYP.

PREFINISHED EXTERIOR WOOD
SIDING SYSTEM 

EXTERIOR FACE BRICK TYP.

 

PREFINISHED EXTERIOR WOOD
SIDING SYSTEM TYP.

 

TOP OF PARAPET a
+1 

I 



 

GARAGE - FINISHED FLOOR 3


TOP OF PARAPET 
. . 



I 

ll

 

GARAGE - FINISHED FLOOR 


TOP OF PARAPET 


I 

II

 

GARAGE - FINISHED FLOOR 


2019 BAILEY BUILT. PLLC

4130 TFIUMBULL AVENUE DETROIT

om v0 mx1m1_01_n>0m 1.151121.

11m_u_z_m_._m_u 11m1_z_m_._m_u KHZ. 11m1_z_m_._m_u @3101 2000
m2mqm?121.
>4 112:0 #01 0.1 1>1>1ma

 

 



 

 

  
  
 
 
 
  
 

11m1_z_w_._m_u Z52. 
1>Zmrm2mqm?121.

11m_n_z_m_._m_u KHZ. 
1>Zm_. 22mg 1 21.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11m_u_z_m_._m_u 
0001 m2mqm>> 1 21.

 


0001 23mg 1 21.

11m1_z_m_._m_u KHZ.


KHZ.


1_wm1 OmZqu 1>Zm_.
23m; 21.

ow - _n_.001

 

i warm:

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

11m1_z_w_._m_u Z52. 
1>Zmrm2mqm?121.

11m_n_z_m_._m_u KHZ. 
1>Zm_. 22mg 1 21.

11m1_z_m_._m_u 
0001 Miami 1 21.

11m1_z_m_._m_u 
05mm 0001 239? 21.

11m_u_z_m_._m_u @3101 2000
m__u_ZO m<mam?121.

@3101 2000
m<mam?121.

om - _n_.001

 

 

i 1 7m:

      

11m1_z_w_._m_u 
05mm 0001 m6qu 1 21.

11m_n_z_m_._m_u 
0001 m2mam>>121.

mXam1_01 1>0m
w1_0_A121.

qum1_01 1>Om


11m1_Z_mImU Z52.


11m1_z_m_._m_u KHZ.


9 - _n_.001

 

.1 core:

11m1_z_m_._m_u mZa12 0001
23$: 2000 0001m121.

mx._.m_1_o_1 - 

 

2019 BAILEY BUILT. PLLC

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE DETROIT

ow mva 

mXamEOm m>0m 40w Om 

 

2w. 1 wmwm:

EOOU
m<mam>> 1m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

om - _n_Z_mIm_u 2.00m

 

 

.1 mwyw:

KHZ. 
1>Zm_. m<mam? 21.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

om - 1.00m

 

 

i 7m:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_.m<mr 2 - 

 

1 core:

 

mXamEOm EOOU
33m?? . 2w.

mx._.m_u_om - 

2019 BAILEY BUILT. PLLC

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE DETROIT

EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH

2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

REPORT

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

08

 EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH

2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

REPORT

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

09

 2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

10 REPORT
THE DESIGN OF THIS MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING PROJECT FOLLOWS THE DETROIT PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT GUIDING PRINCIPLES. MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING UNITS ARE A USE THAT IS
ALLOWED BY-RIGHT IN THIS R3 ZONING DISTRICT AND IS A TYPICAL
USE WITHIN THE WOODBRIDGE FARM HISTORIC DISTRICT.

ALLE
Y
PARKING BEHIND
BUILDING - OFF ALLEY

CON
T
WAL EXTUAL
L OF
S
CON ETBACK
TINU
S/
ITY

FRONT FACING PORCH AREAS

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

ST
FRONT FACING PORCH AREAS

RI
NE

PLANNING ELEMENTS

E NU
E

AL
EX
AN
D

TRU
MBU
LL A
V

RE
ET

PEDESTRIAN ACCESS MAINTAINED

 2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

1.
Height.
Multi-unit apartment buildings in the Woodbridge Farm Historic District range from two (2) to five (5) stories. Standing at 40 feet with three (3) stories, the proposed structure is average to
short height for an apartment or multi-unit building within the district.
2.
Proportion of buildings front facades.
Three (3) story multi-unit buildings are often wider than tall within the Woodbridge Farm Historic District. The proposed structure is 46’2” wide by 40’ tall, thus is in proportional adherence
to the district facades. The design also utilizes a center element at the entry that is taller than the adjacent wall on the front façade like a tower element. This element is drawn from the
other elements like turrets, towers, and gables utilized in existing buildings within the district.
3.
Proportion of openings within the facade.
The front façade design of the proposed building contains voids in the form of windows and doors that constitute an area of approximately 30% percent of the of the façade and is in keeping
with the other buildings within the district. Typical void proportions within the district range between 15-35%. The proportion of the windows in the design are generally square in appearance
with some elements that are more horizontal, which are seen in the Queen Anne and Romanesque style buildings within the district that have some square and/or arched openings in their
facades. A great variety of sizes, shapes, and groupings of openings exist within the district. The proposed window design and proportions are in keeping with the district.
4.
Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades.
Within the District, houses display a great amount of freedom in the placement of openings within the facades. The design of the proposed structure takes its cues from these buildings and
arranges the voids in a regular, yet asymmetric and visually interesting manner.
5.
Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets.
The design of the proposed building places the new building on a site between two existing structures along Trumbull Avenue. The alignment of the new building is consistent with the contextual front setback of the adjacent buildings. The side lot lines are between five (5) and ten (10) feet and reestablish the rhythm that is seen in the more intact streetscapes of other parts of
Trumbull where there are still rows of houses.
6.
Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections.
The design of the proposed project incorporates front facing porches on each of the 6-units of the building. Porches are an integral component of the District’s make up as porches exist on
all the residential buildings within the District. The variety of the porches within the proposed project assist in providing a contemporary interpretation of the houses and multi-unit buildings
that exist in the district. The design also includes rear porches or decks at the rear of the building as these exist on most of the structures throughout the District as well.

8.
Relationship of textures.
Existing buildings within the district have use a variety of building materials from brick, varieties of stone, wood siding, stucco, slate, and clapboard siding, some of which utilize multiple materials on the same building, creating a streetscape with unique visual and textural interest. The consistent execution within the District of utilizing several materials to create a rich textural
effect is the largest design muse for the proposed structure. The proposed design creates a contemporary version of existing building designs within the district, utilizing masonry (brick) and
wood siding as its primary cladding elements, and incorporates other materials as well that contribute and continue the unique visual and textural interest along the streetscape of Trumbull
Avenue as a complimentary member to the District while honoring the District’s heritage by not imitating it, but advancing its interpretation.
9.
Relationship of colors.
Light gray stone and red stone are the most common colors presented on buildings within the district. The design of the proposed building creates a contemporary version of existing building
designs within the district by drawing on these base colors and incorporating Gray hues from the masonry and pairing it with natural redwood stain as the predominate colors of the design.
Orange-red is typically seen as a brick color or paint color; the proposed design expresses it as the color for the wood siding on the building. The color gray is typically the color of the masonry used on existing buildings, the new design uses gray in the masonry color and in the metal siding color.
10. Relationship of architectural details.
The design of the proposed building utilizes its own unique vocabulary of details that the express themselves in conversation with the details that were used to express themselves on the
more traditional designs in the District. The proposed design makes use of architectural projections along each façade to create visual interest by either utilizing different building materials
or distance from the main wall, much like the use of porches, bay windows, window hoods, and cornices were used create visual interest in traditional design. The new design incorporates
simplified details around the doors, windows and wall terminations as is seen in some buildings around the district of the later styles.

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

7.
Relationship of materials.
The design of the proposed building creates a contemporary version of existing building designs within the district that utilize utilizing masonry (brick) and wood siding as the primary cladding
elements on the front façade and entire building.

ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
CITY OF DETROIT CODE OF ORDINANCES - 25-2-120

11

REPORT

 2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

11. Relationship of roof shapes.
Commercial buildings and apartment buildings around the Woodbridge Farm Historic District have flat roofs not seen from the street. The proposed building has a flat roof design in this
conforming style.
12. Walls of continuity.
The proposed project is designed with total alignment of the structure building to front setback of the adjacent buildings. This direct alignment will reinforce the primary wall of continuity on
this block of Trumbull.
13. Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments.
The proposed project is designed to be in keeping with the landscape and surface treatments that exist along Trumbull Avenue. These elements will consist of a concrete walk up to the front
entrance, a concrete walk along the side of the building to access the rear of the property, and a slightly graded front grass lawn area with shrubs and other plantings. All existing landscape
elements in the front tree lawn will remain and the garage for parking is at the rear of the property accessed through the alley.
14. Relationship of open space to structures.
The proposed project is to utilize a building site that has been vacant. The design for the project recreates the streetscape and visual continuity along this block of Trumbull Avenue and is an
appropriate infill project for this district.
15. Scale of facades and facade elements.
The design for the proposed building has a large central tower-like element for that marks the entry to the building and breaks up the front façade into smaller sections or segments. The
smaller segments express themselves differently, whether as a recess or building projection, which can be window elements or porches for the units. These types of elements are similar
in nature and use as the expression of the elements of traditional design such as gables, dormers, verandas, and bays. The overall scale of the proposed multi-family structure is similar to
other multifamily structures within the district.
16. Directional expression of front elevations.
The design of the proposed building has a neutral-to- vertical expression of the façade. This vertical expression is consistent with the majority of buildings within the district.
17. Rhythm of building setbacks.
The proposed project and building are designed to be in line with the contextual front setbacks of the adjacent buildings to the North and South of the site. This design recreates the consistency along the streetscape that has been missing along this block of Trumbull Avenue.

19. Degree of complexity within the facade.
With the District, the degree of complexity is determined by what is appropriate for the given style represented. The design of the proposed structure has a degree of complexity that is is
consistent all around the building with the use of massing and a variety of materials, colors and textures. The contemporary design relatively simplified relative to some of the buildings within
the District, but is contextually appropriate given it’s more contemporary style.
20. Orientation, vistas, overviews.
The proposed building is oriented towards Trumbull Avenue to the West with its front facing porches and pedestrian access. The garage for parking is at the rear of the property with access
off the alley. The proposed design is in keeping with most buildings in the district which are oriented towards the main north-south avenues.
21. Symmetric or asymmetric appearance.
Few buildings within the Woodbridge Farm Historic District are symmetrical in appearance, but most have a balanced composition. Many buildings exhibit an asymmetrical appearance. The
proposed structure draws its asymmetry from within the district, but also is composed as a balanced design. The design therefore conforms to the asymmetric, yet balanced design of the
District.
22. General environmental character.
This project is designed to be a contemporary version of the traditional building designs seen within the district. The project will help recreate the streetscape along this portion of Trumbull
Avenue that has been missing and is a wholly appropriate solution and infill to vacant lot that currently exists and is ready to take its place in the district.

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

18. Relationship of lot coverage.
Sites within the District occupy between 40% to 95% percent of their original building sites. The proposed multifamily structure and its buildings occupy 55% of the building site. This lot
coverage amount conforms to the District standards.

ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
CITY OF DETROIT CODE OF ORDINANCES - 25-2-120

12

REPORT

 REPORT
2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

13

CONTEXT WITHIN DISTRICT
5 STORY MULTI-UNIT BUILDING

HORIZONTAL WINDOW GROUPINGS

PORCH ELEMENTS
EXISTING BUILDINGS WITHIN THE DISTRICT
DISPLAY FRONT FACING PORCHES, BAY
WINDOWS, ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS,
AND UNIQUE ASYMMETRIC FACADES

ASYMMETRICAL FACADE & VOID PLACEMENTS

ARCHITECTURAL
PROJECTIONS

ARCHITECTURAL
PROJECTIONS

ASYMETRICAL FACADE
& VOID PLACEMENTS

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

HORIZONTAL WINDOW GROUPINGS

 ASYMMETRICAL FACADE & VOID PLACEMENTS

HORIZONTAL WINDOW GROUPINGS

PORCH ELEMENTS

2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

CONTEXT ADJACENT TO DISTRICT

14 REPORT

EXISTING BUILDINGS
IN THE AREA ADJACENT TO THE DISTRICT
DISPLAY FRONT FACING PORCHES, BAY
WINDOWS, ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS,
AND UNIQUE ASYMMETRIC FACADES

ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS

ASYMMETRICAL FACADE & VOID PLACEMENTS

3 STORY MULTI-UNIT BUILDING

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

PORCH ELEMENTS

 2019   BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

15 REPORT

BUILDING LOT & ADJACENT BUILDINGS

BUILDING LOT

ADJACENT BUILDING TO THE SOUTH OF BUILDING LOT
4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE   DETROIT

ADJACENT BUILDING TO THE NORTH OF BUILDING LOT

 CD
:0
I11
'0




4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE 2019 BAILEY BUILT, PLLC

 

17

REPORT

WOOD SIDING4 INCH WOOD PLANK SHERWIN WILLIAMS STAIN - RIVERWOOD

METAL SIDING AMERICAN BUILDING COMPONENTS IMPERIAL RIB - CHARCOAL

ALUMINUM FRAMED GLAZINGWOJAN - 950 SERIES HORIZONTAL SIDER TYPE (BLACK)

BRICK VENEERBELDEN BRICK BLACK DIAMOND VELOUR

 18 REPORT

fr.? E:
23;; -.--. 5'.m-vfr
. -r I

?1 13?
41;. 
\f

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

TEKTEIN



 



- 

2019 BAILEY BUILT. PLLC

4130 TRUMBULL AVENUE 

REPORT

Ulitp of Estroit

CITY COUNCIL

 

Historic Designation Advisory Board

PROPOSED HOODBRIDGE FARM HISTORIC DISTRICT
Final Report

The proposed Hoodbridge Farm Historic District is a primarily
residential area located approximately two miles from downtown
Detroit. It consists of approximately 50 primary buildings on
the east side of Trumbull Avenue and both sides of Lincoln from
Canfield to Grand River. It is already included in the
Woodbridge Historic District listed on the National Register in
1980. At the southwest corner is the landmark Trumbull Avenue
Presbyterian Church, which was locally designated in 1982.

BOUNDARIES: The boundaries of the proposed district are as shown
on the attched map and are as follows:Boundaries:

Beginning at a point, that point being the intersection of the
centerline of brainard and the centerline of Trumbull Ave.;
thence easterly along the centerline of Brainard to its
intersection with the centerline of the north?south alley between
Trumbull and Lincoln; thence southerly along the centerline of
said alley to its intersection with the southerly boundary,
extended east and west, of Lot 16, Hodges Bros. Sub of OLs 98-99?
102 103 of the Woodbridge P. 308); thence easterly
along said lot line as extended to its intersection with the
centerline of Lincoln Ave.; thence northerly along the centerline
of Lincoln to its intersection with the centerline of Brainard;
thence easterly along the centerline of Brainard to its
intersection with the centerline'of Gibson; thence northerly
along the centerline of Gibson to its intersection with the
centerline of Calumet; thence westerly along the centerline of
Calumet to the north-south alley lyuing between Lincoln and
Trumbull; thence northerly along the centerline of said alley to
its intersection with the north line, extended east and west, of
Lot 130, Hodges Brothers Sub. of OLs 98-99-102 103 of the
Woodbridge Farm (L.l thence westerly along the northerly
line of said Lot 130 as extended to iuts intersection with the

centerline of Trumbull; thence southerly along the centerline of
Trumbull to the point of beginning.

HISTORY: Hoodbridge Farm was named in recent years for its
original landowner, the former territorial governor of Michigan
from 1819 to 1820, William Hull Woodbridge. In addition to its
historic architecture, Woodbridge Farm serves as a historical
bench mark to pre~automobile, turn?of-the-century Detroit.

4

REPORT

Grand River Ave. was one of the first roads in the Michigan
Territory, dating all the way back to its authorization by
Congress in 1832. First a primitive plank road, the franchise
was opened in 1851, extending fifty miles out of downtown
Detroit. All of the Hoodbridge neighborhood, including that on
the west side of Trumbull, was annexed to the city of Detroit by
1860. One of the city's first street car lines was a privately
operated horse?drawn affair that opened in 1864 and ran as far as
the Detroit, Monroe and Toledo rail road tracks on the north side
of the neighborhood. The Grand River line opened in 1868 and
the Trumbull Avenue line opened in 1886.

Woodbridge Farm was subdivided and platted in 1871 by the Hodges
Brothers, Charles Carroll Hodges and Henry Clay Hodges. They
purchased a large part of the Hoodbridge Farm north of Grand
River to Hancock in what was then considered to be "the northern

suburbs of Detroit." They donated a strip 70' wide as a street
and gave it the name "Lincoln" after their hero, President
Abraham Lincoln. In fact, both brothers embraced the

newly formed Republican party; Charles C. Hodges attended the
1860 convention where Lincoln was nominated and Henry Clay Hodges
was present at the meeting known as "Under the Oaks? in Jackson,
Michigan where the Republican party was founded.

Henry Clay Hodges was born on March 2, 1828 in South Hero,
Vermont; his brother Charles Carroll Hodges was born on July 22,
1830. Henry came to Detroit in 1850 but left to earn a law
degree in Wisconsin. Upon returning to Detroit in 1862, he
entered into partnership with his brother Charles and Edward
Barker, under the name of Barker, Hodges and Brother. This
insurance brokerage was the agency for Connecticut

Mutual Life Insurance Company of Hartford for the states of
Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa and Minnesota. Barker retired from the
firm in 1864, and it became known as Hodges Brothers.

The Hodges Brothers were among the pioneers in the real estate
business in Detroit. Not only did they subdivide the Hodges
Subdivision, they also developed some of the lots by building and
selling homes themselves. The Detroit Post and Tribune ran
weekly illustrated newspaper ads of new modern brick
houses on Lincoln Avenue location very desirable at the low
price of $6,500.? In addition to their residential real estate,
the Hodges Brothers built the Hodges Building at State and
Griswold Streets and they also erected an apartment building
named the Henry Clay Apartments at John R. and Center streets
1912 (in the Madison-Harmony Historic District).

The Hodges Brothers prospered through their insurance and real
estate businesses and parlayed their profits into other
profitable endeavors. They were associated with "one of the
greatest industries in Detroit, the Detroit Steam Radiator
Company." They purchased the business of John R. Grout,
manufacturer of lubricating devices, and in 1882 organized and
incorporated the Detroit Steam Radiator Co. Henry C. Hodges

REPORT

became President; he was superseded by his son, Charles H.
Hodges, in 1906. This company pioneered the manufacturer of cast
iron radiators. The company was sold to Detroit Radiator
Company, subsequently becoming one of its main units.

On top of all their business and political activities, the Hodges
Brothers were civic minded. Henry Clay Hodges worked on the idea
of establishing a grand boulevard with David M. Richardson, which
eventually became a reality. It is a wonder that the Hodges
brothers also found the time to develop their talents and
interests; Henry Clay Hodges published works on astrology and
Charles Carroll Hodges was a painter who assisted in organizing
the Watercolor Society of Detroit. He was also a good singer who
was one of the founders of the Philharmonic Society in Detroit.
Charles died in 1901; Henry died at the age of 92 in 1919.

Planned development of the proposed Hoodbridge Farm Historic
District area began about a decade earlier than most of the
Woodbridge neighborhood to the immediate west, with the houses
built speculatively by the Hodges brothers beginning in the early
1870's. Those who originally occupied the houses in Woodbridge
Farm tended to be merchants, professionals, industrialists, and
widows. Among them were John H. Wagner, one of five brothers who
founded Wagner Company Bakery; Horace Hitchcock, partner in
Hitchcock, 8 woolens and tailors; Lowell
8. Thompson, dealer in sewing machines, pianos and organs;
D. Harris, conductor with Michigan Central Rail Road;
Chamberlain, of M.H. Chamberlain 8 Co. wholesale wine and

liquors; Louis Lang, proprietor of Michigan Steam Laundry, and
Robert T. Teakle, builder.

Henry
Alvinzie

Spacious lots laid Out in the Hodges sub were 50' in width.
1879, Lincoln was paved in white cedar block, a luxury at the
time. Through the Hodges Brothers' efforts, Trumbull Avenue,
then around 60' wide, was widened to 80'. This was accomplished
by their donation of 10? on the east side and the donations of an
equal amount by property owners on the west side. Trumbull
Avenue, named in 1858 after Judge John Trumbull, father of the
wife of Governor Woodbridge, was formerly designated Ninth
Street. Building on Trumbull began in 1879 when James Scripps,
founder and publisher of the Detroit News, built his home near
-the corner of Grand River. His fine home, with art gallery and
chapel designed by Mason and Rice in 1891 and library by Albert
Kahn in 3898, set the tone for the erection of other spacious
houses.on the avenue. Unfortunately, the Scripps House fell

victim to arson in the 1980's, leaving just the carriage house
today.

By

Many street names in the district underwent name changes after
the prOperty was subdivided by the Hodges Brothers. Maria,
changed to Selden in 1882, was originally named after the sister
of W.B. Wesson, a real estate entrepreneur and landowner who
platted the W.B. Wesson Sub of the Lognon Farm (to the west of
the Hoodbridge Farm), in 1887. Fulton, which became Brainard in

REPORT

1887, was originally named in 1853 after the Fulton Street of New
York City. Brigham was named in 1852 after the middle name of
W.B. Wesson; it later became Calumet. McLean, named after a

friend of Albert Crane, a partner of W.B. Wesson named Archie
McLean, became Willis in 1887.

The Woodbridge area survived as a middle class residential
community through the Depression well into the 1930's. With
World War II, however, the demand for housing in the city got
greater with the need to house defense industry workers from
nearby plants, and owners of large houses were encouraged to
create apartments or rooms for rent in their homes. After the
war, with the expansion or the suburbs, less affluent residents
remained in the older housing, and Woodbridge, like many other
communities in the inner city, began to deteriorate. Absentee
landlords and deferred maintenance led to abandonment of some of
the housing stock, much of which was subsequently demolished.

The deterioration ot Woodbridge Farm and the Woodbridge
neighborhood to its west accelerated in the 1950's and 60's as
the adjacent areas were declared blighted and marked for
clearance by urban renewal authorities. The Jeffries public
housing project was built to its east, a high school and vacant
urban renewal parcels are located to its north, and a largely
abandoned Grand River Avenue commercial strip sits to its south.
The Noodbridge neighborhood residents succeeded in having the
residential area to the west designated for conservation as
Opposed to demolition through the formation of the Woodbridge
Citizen's District Council, and funds became available for
improvements to existing housing. However, the Woodbridge Farm
district was not included in the Citizen?s District Council area,
although both areas are included in the Woodbridge National
Register Historic District. Neighborhood Opportunity Funds
became available to the Noodbridge Farm neighborhood in recent
years and, in addition to private rehabs, have assisted in
improving the condition of the area.

ARCHITECTURE: Architecture in Woodbridge Farm runs the gamut
between 1870's Second Empire style single~family dwellings to

1920's apartment buildings. Below is a sampling of the buildings
that comprise Noodbridge Farm.

1. 3684 Trumbull Avenue, Trumbull Apartments, 1901

This eight-unit, toursstory apartment building at 616 Trumbull
(old address) was constructed in 1901, according to permit #1291
issued to Charles K. Latham, a lawyer. Charles J. and Martha W.
Holton were the owners of the property when the building was
erected. The Holtons resided next door at 620 (old number)
Trumbull. In addition to his real estate holdings, Charles J.
Holton was in the wholesale cigars business. He owned the
Trumbull Apartments until 1916, after which time it has had a
succession of owners, the most recent being the Detroit Rescue
Mission, Christian Guidance Center.



Original residents of the Trumbull Apartments included Frederick
C. Schultz, vice president and general manager of Dickerson 
Company, sellers of caps and furs; J. Whittaker Company,
contractors, Alexander Guard, retired major, U.S. Army; and
William F. Robinson, superintendent of Belle Isle.

The Trumbull Apartments is a fourastory brick building measuring
42" by 70". It is Colonial Revival in style; the most unique
feature about it is the two story portico attached to the front
facade. Between the Ionic columns are balconies which flank the
centrally located arched entry. The segmentally arched entrance
opening is surrounded by stone quoins and a keystone. Splayed
stone lintels with keystones cap the 8?over~one sash windows of

the third and fourth story; a modillion cornice completes the
front facade.

2. 3914 Trumbull Avenue, Abraham Kinney House, 1890.

Abraham 8. Kinney, Jr., a patternmaker, had this house built by
A.C. Varney, architect (permit #85) at an estimated cost of
$3500. The property had been in the Kinney family since 1873,
when Abraham S. Kinney Sr. purchased it from the Hodges Brothers.
Kinney Jr. purchased the property in 1889 from Kinney Sr.'s
heirs. Unfortunately, Kinney could not enjoy his new house very
long, since mechanics' liens were filed against him by the
contractor, William H. Hollands Sons, the architect, A.C.
Varney, the builder, Armor Fair, the furnace supplier, 
Austin, and Lucy wiltsie, the painter. The property was sold out
of the Kinney family to Frederick Ruehle in 1891; his heirs sold
it to Francis H. Haberkorn, also a Ruehle heir, in 1894. It
appears to have been leased and occupied by Martin Kelly,
president of Palace Laundry Company, and then William Kelly,
president of Roger J. Sullivan Co., carpets, stoves, desks,
matting, oil cloths, for the majority of time under Haberkorn's
ownership. Haberkorn sold it to Howard Pinkerton, veterinary

remedies, in 1918, and the house continued to be leased through
the 1920's and 30's.

The two?story house, by A.C. Varney, a prolific late 19th c. -
early 20th c. Detroit architect, is red-painted brick on a random
ashlar base and measures approximately 32? 39'. It is
Romanesque Revival in style, with a castellated silhouette. The
north portion of the front facade has a square towerlike
projection above the roofline, and the south portion has a round
towerlike projection that creates a round bay with windows at the
second story level. Fenestration is asymmetrical and varied; at
second story level beneath the square tower is a large round~
arched window and below at first story level is a round arched
entry into the recessed entrance vestibule. Detail is mostly
articulated in brick, such as the corbelling at parapet level.
The sides and rear of the building are much simpler in design, as
they are barely visible from the street.



Almon C. Varney designed a number of houses in Woodbridge; some
of the larger ones are to his designs, such as 4209 Trumbull on
the west side of the street. Varney was one of the authors of
Our Homes and their Adornments, published in 1882.

3. 3966 Trumbull, c. 1875

3966 Trumbull is most likely one of the houses built by the
Hodges Brothers in the mid?1870's for sale on the open market.

It was sold to George W. Robinson, a foreman with Hubbard King,
lumber dealers, at a cost of $6,000 in 1876. He gave half of his
interest to John W. Robinson in 1878, but lost the property in
foreclosure. Mark Flanigan, a contractor, purchased the property
in 1880 and sold it to Addison R. Hunger, vice?president of the
Parker Transportation Company, in 1885. It appears through
searching_city directories that the house remained vacant for
most if not all the time that Hunger owned it; he finally sold it
in 1898. In 1935 the building was utilized by Marr General
Hospital, in 1965 it became the home of Trumbull General
Hospital, and in 1974 it was owned by Southwest General Hospital.
It has subsequently become a halfway house.

In style, the house is Second Empire, with its mansard roofs and
italianate detailing. [t is brick and contains 2?172 stories,
the attic being heavily fenestrated with double~hung sash windows
within dormers. Above a set of such paired dormer windows in the
towerlike south section of the front facade is a projecting upper
stage containing a bull's or ocular window. The narrow
windows of the front facade have ornamental segmental window

hoods. The original porch has been replaced and the brick is now
painted green.

4. 4130 Trumbull, Kittle House, 1889

H. M. Kittle of Kittle 8 Company, trunk and bag manufacturers,
received the permit for this two?story brick building costing an
estimated $6000 on June 28, 1889. Hezekiah Maurice Kittle sold
the property on a land contract in 1891 for $7000 to Anna H.
Neveux, whose husband George was the owner of George A. Neveux 
Co., installment goods. It has had a succession of owners since.

Although an architect or builder has not been identified with
this property, it resembles its neighbor, 4138 Trumbull in size
and style. 4138 Trumbull was designed by George Dephew in 1891;
given that Dephew designed other houses on both sides of Trumbull

at around that time, it is reasonable to conjecture that he was
the designer of 4130 Trumbull.

The Kittle House is Richardsonian Romanesque in style. Its rock?
faced stone foundations firmly anchor it to the ground; belt
courses, quoining and voussoirs also rough stone contribute to
the rough, heavy character of the building. The round arch,

REPORT

another characteristic of the Richardsonian Romanesque, is seen
at the entrance of the Kittie House. In general, both buildings
at 4130 and 4138 Trumbull are very handsome small-scale

residential structures that have suffered neglect in the last
decade.

5. 4202 Trumbull, 1890

Constructed in 1890 while under the ownership of D.B. Duffield as
Trustee of Elmwood Cemetery, this house was designed by the
architect George E. Dephew, who was issued permit #1115 on July
29, 1890 to build a two?story dwelling measuring 36' by 56' at a
cost of $5000. Dephew also designed other houses on Trumbull,
including 4138 Trumbull in 1891 on the east side of the street

and 3985 Trumbull, known at the Northwood House, in 1890 on the
west side of the street.

Edwin A. Spence purchased the pr0perty at 716 Trumbull, its old
address, in January 1891 for $10,000; William C. Lautner appears
to be the first owner/occupant after he bought the prOperty in
Oct., 1891 for $10,000. Lautner was the secretary and treasurer
of the Detroit Metallic Casket Company. He sold the building to
Thomas Payne, also for $10,000, in 1893 who, in turn, sold it to
william K. Clark in 1894. A succession of tenants appear in the
city directories before Mr. Payne sold the building in 1891;
among them were Edward J. Hickey, general manager at J.L. Hudson

Co., in 1895 and Henry w. booth, journalist with the Detroit
News, in 1900.

The building itself is stucco now painted red. It is two stories
tall with an irregular roof line that is significantly lower than
its northern neighbor. The main roof is a steeply sloped hip
with a shed dormer containing a horizontal grouping of two
windows within. A gable projects from the northern side of the
front slope of the hipped roof. The roofs are still clad in
slate. Like the roof shapes, there are several different window
shapes and arrangements on the front facade, typical of the Queen
Anne style of the building. The notable feature of the southwest
corner of the buildiing is the engaged turret.

6. 4304?08 Trumbull, Manchester Double House, 1897

4304?08 Trumbull was in the family of Eugene M. Manchester from
the time it was built in 1897 to when it was sold out of the
family in 1937. Manchester, superintendent of the press room at
the Detroit Free Press, was issued permit #1019 on November 17,
1897 for the construction of this double-house at a cost of
$5000. Eugene H. Manchester occupied 740 Trumbull and John L.
Gibson, a travel agent, occupied the other half, at 742 Trumbull
(old addresses), according to the 1900 Detroit City Directory.



The Manchester Double House is a typical turn-of~the-century
duplex found in the Woodbridge community. Measuring 40' wide by
62' deep, the two-and~one~half story brick building has a three~
story engaged conical tower as the major feature of the south
unit. This tower, projecting from the roofline, marks the
southwest corner of the building and the corner site. The rest
of the roofline is composed of a gable roof with intersecting

gables; the one facing frontally forms the gable over the north
unit.

7. 3627 Lincoln, c. 1875

The Hodges Brothers sold this property to Thomas J. Craft, agent
with Hoosac Tunnel Line, for $1000 in 1874. Mr. Craft, who
evidently built the house, sold it to Eugene K. Parker, a
conductor with Michigan Central Rail Road, for $6000 in 1876,
obviously with a house on it. it does not appear that Parker
ever lived in this house; his heirs sold it to John Bristow, a
foreman, and his wife, Elizabeth, a teacher at Cass School, in
1894. In between, tenants included Alvinzie Chamberlain, in the
wholesale wine and liquor business, in the early 1880's and
Charles S.C. Charbonneau, with Williams Brothers and Charbonneau,
manufacturers of Vinegars, pickles, and preserves, and his
brother Lionel, a physician, in the later 1880's. Charles
Charbonneau eventually built a mansion for himself at 4105

Commonwealth at Alexandrina in the Woodbridge neighborhood west
of Trumbull.

ltalianate in style, this two?story brick house has a shallow hip
roof, elongated windows, a three?sided bay on south side of the
first floor of the front facade, and evenly spaced double-hung
sash windows with heavy stone window hoods above. At attic level
is a round arched window in a heavily molded frame. 0n the south
elevation is a cross gable sheltering a box bay. The porch
brackets are very simple, as is the rest of the porch detail; it
is more a product of the newly?invented jigsaw.

8. 3650 Lincoln, Venice Apartments, 1926

This 5?story apartment building originally housed 50 residential
units and two stores when it was built in 1926. It was built by
Torrello and Talcione, presumably its developers, on land that
was previously occupied by an older house. It was one of several
small scale apartment buildings scattered throughout Woodbridge
Farm, mostly located on the southern or northern end. This was
one of the largest in size.

The name for the Venice Apartments was probably chosen by the
developers after their Italian, if not Venetian, origins.
Although its cornice is missing the building attempts to evoke
Venetian images. A light brown brick faces the front elevation;
darker brick was utilized to the sides and rear. The first story

REPORT I .- 9

of the front facade of the building has every fifth brick raised
to give it a rusticated appearance. Projecting pavilions rising
five stories flank the recessed courtyard entrance; the entrance
is reached through a series of smooth cut stone tripartite arches
with medallions projecting_above the spandrels. A strip of
basket?weave patterned brickwork rises up the octagonal
pavilions; it is capped with an ornamental stone motif consisting
of arcading beneath a raised cornice. A panel of stylized art

nouveau detailing emerges above the beltcourse of the central
section of the pavilions.

Early occupants of the Venice Apartments included Clarence
Redford, a bricklayer, in apt. #101; Earl Harrington, a toolmaker
with Wayne Tool Co., in apt. #112; Norma A. Kenealy, a

stenographer with Donaldson and Meier, in apt. #401; and John C.
Loomis, a salesman, in apt. #411.

3669 Lincoln, Isbell House, c. 1873

The lsbell House is the oldest house standing in the district
today. The Hodges Brothers sold lots 51 and 52 to J. Alice
Johnson for $2000 in 1872; she, in turn, sold them to Milo H.
lsbell, a merchant tailor, for $8000 less than a year later, the
price jump indicating that Mr. lsbell bought it with a house on
it. in fact, Willard 8. lsbell, in the ?fish and oysters?
business, appears in the City Directories as living on Lincoln
between "Maria and Fulton?, which later became Selden and
Brainard, as early as 1875. The property was sold to Charles F.
Long, of Batchelder Long, proprietors of a stone and marble
yard and sewer and pipe business, in 1876 and he resided at that

address until he sold it to Caroline Phelps in 1887. It has had
several owners since she died in 1892.

The house originally started as an ltalianate style house as
evidenced by the proportions of its original sections, their
fenestration, original window hoods and the south side porch.
The rustic front was added sometime later, as were rear

additions. The building was converted into 8 apartments and 6
rooms; later into 3 apartments.

10. 3901-07 Lincoln, Haste and Harris Double House, 1888

The building permit for the construction of the Haste and Harris
Double House was issued to Joseph Harris in 1888. Soon after,
Robert Gurest, a stone mason, and W.J. Burton Co., galvanized
iron cornice manufacturers, filed mechanics' liens filed against
them in the Wayne County courts; hence, they were amongst the

contractors working on the building. It was sold out of the
Harris family in 1915.

Joseph Harris and William Haste were cracker manufacturers who
also tinkered in real estate. They each lived in several other

REPORT

a 10.-

places in the Woodbridge Farm district before and after building

this double house and may have moved from one property they built
to another after each was sold.

The house today, in extremely poor condition due to fire,
abandonment, and recent brick stripping, is a good candidate for
demolition. It was once a quite attractive Queen Anne/Romanesque
style structure with random ashlar foundations and first story
elements. Irregular placement of windows, multiple roof shapes,
and a variety of colors and textures characterize this style and
this building. Its orange brick was painted red, and brownstone
was used between some of the transoms and windows. Some transoms
are arched; some are square. Over a second entrance on the north
elevation is a square tower with a pyramidal roof. The original

slate roofing is still visible over the towers, dormers, and side
gables.

11. 3954 Lincoln, Harris House, c. 1875

The Hodges Brothers sold this house to Martha Harris, wife of
Henry Harris, for $7000 in 1876. It was one of the houses the
Hodges Brothers built to develop the neighborhood, and was almost
identical to the house pictured in the newSpaper ads of the late
1870's advertising the Hodges Brothers Subdivision. In exterior
appearance, it is almost identical to the house next door to its

north, 3982 Lincoln. Most likely built by the Hodges at the same
time, that house was not sold until 1882.

Henry Harris was a conductor with the Michigan Central Rail Road.
Several other residents of the Woodbridge Farm neighborhood were
also associated with the rail roads. The house was sold to
Comfort D. Farr, a roofer, in 1891.

The Harris House, like others built speculatively by the Hodges
Brothers, is a two-and?one-half story eclectic High Victorian
home with stone foundations and brick exterior walls. Stone
window hoods cap second story windows; intersecting mansard roofs
were slate. A three?sided wooden bay window with Italianate
detail occupied one side of the first floor of the front facade
while the other side was occupied by an Italianate porch. A
.secondary side entrance with a simpler ltalianate porch leads
into the rear section beneath the intersecting mansard roof. A
triangular?headed window in the front face of the mansard is
capped by a steeply sloped mansard roof projecting above the
roofline. This feature is absent on the twin house next door.

12. 4145~47 Lincoln, Louis Lang House

Louis Lang received a permit for construction of the house at 175
(old number) Lincoln on May 22, 1882 at an estimated cost of
$4000. He purchased the property from the Hodges Brothers a
month later. By a mechanic?s lien that was filed against the

REPORT

11 

iv

DeMarr Brothers in that same year, we can assume that they built
the house. The brothers are identified as George "Demars", a
painter, and Issac "Demars", a carpenter, in the 1881 and 1882
City Directories. Mr. Lang, born in Blumfelden, Germany, was the
proprietor of Michigan Steam Laundry at 104 Randolph (old
address). He and his family resided in the house until 1923.

The two story wooden building measuring 38? by 57' is Carpenter
Gothic in style. Much of its architectural detail could be
attributed to the invention of the jigsaw. lt exhibits three
roof forms; its frontal gable roof is intersected by a hip roof
and, further back, a side-facing gable roof. The first story of
the central section of the front facade consists of a three?sided
bay with stylized arcaded detailing for the cornice. Above, at
second story level, are a pair of elongated doubleehung sash
windows with decorative wooden window hoods. An ornamental
vergeboard frames the gable of this section.

The porch of the north section of the front facade displays a
pinwheel pattern between the modillions of the cornice. The
house is entered through a set of wooden double doors. On the

south side of the front facade, the wraparound recessed porch has
a simple pedimental gable.

13. ATSO Lincoln, John B. Wagner House

This house was built for John B. Wagner 1846-1911) of the
Wagner Company Bakery, in 1884, at which time their bakery
plants were at 326 Woodward between Columbia and Montcalm and
378~382 Grand River (old addresses) between Fifth and Sixth
across the street from where they built a modern "bakery palace"
in 1914. This later became Wonder Bread and is now vacant.

Brothers Edward, Christopher, Henry jr., and John were in the
business also.

The Wagner brothers, sons of Henry and Helena Wagner, were born
in Prussia, Germany. The family came to America in 1864 and
continued in the bakers and confectioners trade, which-they
learnt in Germany. Wagner Baking Co. was founded in 1869; it was

incorporated in 1893. The firm was sold to Continental baking C0.
in 1924.

Permit #390 was issued to John B. Wagner on April 17, 1884 to
build this eclectic Second Empire two-story brick house at an
estimated cost of construction of $4000. width is narrow,
its measurements being 24' by 60', it appears that the lot was
split between he and a brother, who built the frame cottage to

its south. Wagner's heirs owned the John B. Wagner House until
1920.

This unusual house features a mansard roof bearing octagonal
slate shingles that begins rising above the first story level and
a second story tower projecting beyond the roof line. The two

q. .

 




Dn



Dn

I CAIHILD

9 r?



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

.3. a. 

 

.006 I.

lit .1 1.1.11?11


.

L1.

 

Proposed Woodbridqe Farm Historic District

(Boundaries outlined in black)

