February 13, 2013 ITEM NO. D3

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH ALL CHICAGO, INC.
FOR LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES, PLUMBING RISER REPLACEMENT AND
COMMON AREA IMPROVEMENTS AT LONG LIFE APARTMENTS

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:


It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with All Chicago, Inc. for building life safety upgrades,
plumbing riser replacement and common area improvements in the amount of $6,898,444.00 at
the Long Life Apartments a senior residence building. The work is to be completed by no later
than four hundred ?fty (450) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed as
part of the Capital Maintenance Program.

The Development Executive Vice President (EVP), the Of?ce of the General Counsel and the
Of?ce of Procurement have completed all necessary due diligence to support the submission of
this initiative and recommend the approval of this item accordingly.

W: Ensure portfolio is safe, decent and sustainable
w: General Fund - FY2013


Speci?cation No.: IF 12 - 00994
Vendor No: All Chicago, Inc.

Sitara Khan, President

4100 W. Belmont Ave.

Chicago, IL 60641
Contract Type: Construction Services Solicitation Release Date: November 20,

2012
Base Contract Amount: $6,898,444.00 Days Advertised: 35 business days
Base Contract Period: four hundred ?fty Addendum(s): 3
(450) days
Option Period: Pre-Bileroposal Date: December 3, 2012
Publications: Chicago Sun?Times, Defender, Solicitation Due Date: January 4, 2013
Extra, CHA website, BuySpeed

Vendor List: 757 Assist Agencies: 64
Pick-Up List: 63 Respondents: 9
MIWIDB

n:
Direct MBE WBE DBE 

 

Section 3:
Hiring 3 Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

GENERAL BACKGROUND

The purpose of this contract is to modernize the building to comply with the high-rise life safety
ordinance as well as capital maintenance components of this building. The modernization
activity will enhance accessibility at building entrances and common areas, extend the useful life
of the building, increase the value of the property, and improve overall quality and sustainability
of existing dwelling and non-dwelling units

The Long Life Apartments is a thirteen (13) story building containing, One hundred sixteen
(116) dwelling units, originally constructed in 1965 and located at 344 West 28?? Place.

The following is the comprehensive scope of work for the building:

Fire Life Safety Improvements:
1. Fire Communication System (lobby/corridor, stairwell, and elevator 2-way
communication system)
2. Elevator Systems (recall system, automatic transfer switch)
3 Fire Alarm/Suppression System (sprinklers in common areas and trash chutes,

smoke detectors, ?re pumps, etc.)

Other Building Improvements:
1. Security Camera Installation (lobbies and hallways)
Plumbing Improvements (new domestic hot and cold water risers, along with
horizontal water lines to bathroom/kitchen and water valves)
3. Unit Improvements (new cabinets/countertops, appliances, bathroom/kitchen
plumbing ?xtures, ?ooring and painting)
4. Lobby and Hallway Improvements (lighting, ?ooring, painting, reception desk,

etc.)

5. Common Area Improvements (new ?oor bathroom ?ooring and plumbing
?xtures, new ceiling, painting ?ooring at building entrance and general of?ce
area

6. Interior Mobility and Common Area Modi?cations - to comply with Americans
with Disabilities Act code requirements

The Fire Life Safety upgrades are recommended in order to provide systems that are compliant
with the City of Chicago?s recently enacted Life Safety and High Rise Ordinance, and the
Chicago Building Code. This Ordinance requires improvements to this and other buildings by the
end of 2014. The designs include elements which will bring the building into compliance with
the ordinance. The existing galvanized plumbing risers are recommended to be replaced
throughout the building per Chicago Building Code and best practices.

The Board action recommended in this item complies in all material respects with all applicable
Chicago Housing Authority board policies and all applicable Department of Housing and Urban
Development procurement laws.

The EVP concurs with the recommendation to enter in a contract with All Chicago, Inc. for
building life safety upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area improvements in the
amount of $6,898,444 at Long Life Apartments.

The CEO/President recommends the approval to execute a contract with All Chicago, Inc. for
building life safety upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area improvement at
Long Life Apartments.

-- {rs-vi Samara: sag-rare: 525' - 

 NQ. 2013-CHA-9

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 13,

2013, entitled TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH
ALL CHICAGO, INC. FOR LIFE SAFETY UPGRADES, PLUMBING RISER
REPLACEMENT AND COMMON AREA IMPROVEMENTS AT LONG LIFE
APARTMENTS 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with All Chicago, Inc. for building life safety
upgrades, plumbing riser replacement and common area improvements in the
amount of $6,898,444.00 at Long Life Apartments, a senior residence building.
The work is to be completed by no later than four hundred ?fty (450) calendar
days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed as part of the Capital
Maintenance Program.

This award is subject to All Chicago?s compliance with the 
Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements for this

contract.


01.5



Board atom missioners

    

 
    

