MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
August 19, 2008
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held it’s Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
August 19, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. at Trumbull Park, Park District Fieldhouse, 2400 E. 105th Street,
Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Absent:

Sandra Young

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, Adrienne Minley, Chief of Staff; Scott
Ammarell, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Mr. Jordan
commenced his report by announcing how great it was to see first hand the renovations that have
been made at Trumbull and to hear from residents how well the development is workings. Mr.
Jordan then continued by announcing organizational changes that included the addition of Elias
Rosario as Executive Vice President for Finance and Kris Warren as Executive Vice President of
the Asset Management Division. Mr. Jordan then highlighted results of CHA’s summer program
which included participation of 1,742 youths in day camps, 118 CHA youth in the overnight
camp and approximately 500 teens participated in summer youth employment programs. Mr.
Jordan then concluded his report by highlighting leasing statistics that clearly indicate
leaseholders are taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the Plan for Transformation.
Mr. Jordan informed the Commissioners that over the next month staff will be collecting and
analyzing more data to ascertain how various aspects of the Plan are operating.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairman Nesbitt thereupon
introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.
Commissioner Ivers presented an Omnibus Motion for the approval of resolutions for Executive
Session Items 1 and 2.

1

 Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-97
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated August 4, 2008, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for July 2008.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
July 2008.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 4, 2008,
requesting authorization to enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of
$185,361 in the matter of Vernez Nichols v. Woodlawn Development Corporation,
05 WC 25452.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the General Counsel, or his designee, to
enter into a settlement agreement in the amount of $185,361 in the case known as
Vernez Nichols v. Woodlawn Community Development Corporation, 05 WC
25452.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations Committee, then presented his monthly
report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations Committee meeting was held on Wednesday,
August 13 at 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate Offices.
Commissioner Ponce then advised Chairman Nesbitt that after Committee discussion of Item A1,
Commissioners voted to defer this item for further review. However, based on additional
information provided by staff, Commissioner Ponce introduced a Motion for the adoption and
approval of the Resolution for Items A1.
(Item A1)
The CHA advertised Invitation for Bid (IFB) to perform the reconstruction of the first floor
concrete slab at Armour Square Annex Apartments. The IFB was advertised in area newspapers
and on the CHA website. After a thorough review of the three bids submittals, pre-award survey
meetings were conducted with all three bidders and the lowest apparent bidder was brought in
for a second pre-award survey meeting to answer additional questions. Based on these pre-award
survey meetings and submitted materials, it was determined that the second lowest bidder,
Tropic Construction Corporation, was the responsible, responsive bidder. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item A1 approves award of contract to Tropic Construction Corporation for
reconstruction of the first floor concrete slab at Armour Square Annex Apartments.

2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13,
2008 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH
TROPIC CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION FOR THE 1st FLOOR PARTIAL
CONCRETE SLAB REPLACEMENT AT ARMOUR SQUARE ANNEX
APARTMENTS (IL2-033B)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Tropic Construction Corporation in the
amount of $2,813,782.00 for work which includes, but is not limited to, the
reconstruction of the first floor concrete slab at Armour Square Annex
Apartments (IL2-033B), a Senior Housing development located at 3120 and 3250
South Wentworth, to be completed by no later than August 20, 2009.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item A1 was seconded by Commissioner Wiggins and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

Commissioner Ponce then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items A2 thru A5 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
Committee.
(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves an Electrical Facilities Services Agreement with
Commonwealth Edison, not-to-exceed $587,562.02, for the provision of Electrical Facilities and
Equipment Services at Dearborn Homes, Phase 2. Under the Agreement, ComEd will be making
changes to its infrastructure to bring additional power to Dearborn Homes, which will include
running power from ComEd facilities off-site to Dearborn Homes. In addition, ComEd will
install switches and other equipment on the site to distribute the power. Due to ComEd’s
ownership of the transformers and electrical lines serving the community, ComEd is the only
distributing electricity supplier for the area, and is the sole source provider of distribution
facilities and infrastructure to service the development. Consequently, the CHA is governed by
the general terms and conditions of ComEd’s tariff agreements. Subject to certain terms,
conditions and tariff provisions, the CHA may be entitled to future credits or cost recovery for
capital costs associated with these distribution facilities and infrastructure improvements based
upon the volume of electricity usage at Dearborn Homes. This procurement by non-competitive
proposal was approved on a sole source basis.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-100
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 12, 2008
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AN ELECTRICAL FACILITIES
SERVICE AGREEMENT WITH COMMONWEALTH EDISON FOR THE
PROVISION OF ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES AND
RELATED SERVICES AT DEARBORN HOMES – PHASE 2 (IL2-009)”;

3

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an Electric Facilities Service Agreement with Commonwealth
Edison for the provision of electrical distribution facilities and related services at
Dearborn Homes (IL2-009) in an amount not-to-exceed $587,562.02.

(Item A3)
The resolution for Item A3 approves disposition of Lawndale Complex Site and Execution of a
Land Use Lease Agreement with Mount Sinai. The former Lawndale Complex residential
development located on the 2600 block of 13th Place was demolished on May 23, 2001. The
adjacent Project-Based Section 8 development known as Ogden Courts located on the 2600 and
2700 block of Ogden Avenue was demolished on May 30, 2006. Both developments are now
vacant land. Sinai Health Center proposes to enter into a lease agreement to build and maintain a
parking lot on approximately 75% of the Lawndale Complex/Ogden Courts site. The parking lot
will help reduce traffic congestion in the area. The remaining 25% of the Lawndale Complex
Site will remain vacant until such time new mixed income housing development commences.
The purpose of this lease is to increase the quality of life for public housing residents, Sinai staff
and visitors, and residents residing in the area surrounding the site. The site is being leased at
less than fair market value, however, there is an additional public benefit to leasing the site due
to the fact that Sinai will provide training and employment opportunities for CHA residents.
Jobs will be generated for the construction of the parking lot, the operation of the parking lot or
for hospital support duties. The Sinai community will also benefit through reduced parking
congestion.
RESOLUTION NO 2008-CHA-101
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 13, 2008,
requesting authorization for the disposition of the Lawndale Complex Site and the
execution of a three year land use lease agreement with two consecutive one-year
option year extensions granted to Mount Sinai for vacant property located at the
2600 block of 13th Place.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute the disposition of the Lawndale Complex Site and execute a
three year land use lease agreement with two consecutive one-year option year
extensions granted to Mount Sinai Hospital for vacant property located at the
2600 block of 13th Place.

(Item A4)
The resolution for Item A4 approves an Option To Purchase and License Agreement for 1322-24
West Taylor Street with the National Public Housing Museum in ABLA. Members of Chicago’s
civic community have partnered with CHA resident leadership in an effort to save the last
remaining Jane Addams residential building and develop it into a National Public Housing
Museum. To this end, the National Public Housing Museum has obtained its non-profit
certification and established a Board of Directors. The CHA has agreed to donate the land and
its improvements if this entity can meet a $13,000,000 fundraising goal as follows: a) May 31st,
2009 – raise a total of $3,200,000; b) December 31st, 2010 – raise a cumulative total of
$4,700,000 (additional $1.5 mil.); c) December 31st, 2011 – raise a cumulative total of
$13,000,000 (additional $8.3 mil.). The CHA will terminate the Option and License Agreement
if the Museum does not meet a fundraising benchmark in the specified time frame. The concept
for the Public Housing Museum will be more than a collection of objects. Through stories of
real families, it will function as an interpretive center dedicated to social reflection and civic
dialogue about the history of public housing in Chicago and America. The Museum will provide
a neutral forum to discuss the lessons of public housing and closely related issues such as
housing, poverty, race and immigration, which continue to shape the urban experience and affect
communities. The Museum is expected to occupy approximately one-third of the 24,089 square
foot site. The Museum would be comprised of a permanent exhibition, gallery space for special
exhibitions, a visitor’s center, museum offices, and a museum retail shop. The remaining space
will be developed to accommodate complementary uses, which may include an affordable
housing research and policy center that offers educational programs, workshops, and symposia

4

 for students, academics, and the general public. The site may also include space for archival
areas for storage of historical materials, independently leased retail and office space, and housing
for visiting faculty. Revenue from these complementary uses will help to fund the Museum’s
operations over time.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-102
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 13, 2008
titled Authorization to enter into an Option to Purchase and License Agreement
for 1322-24 West Taylor Street with the National Public Housing Museum in the
ABLA (Jane Addams) Development.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an Option to Purchase and License Agreement for 1322-24
West Taylor Street with the National Public Housing Museum.

(Item A5)
The resolution for Item A5 approves submittal of a Disposition Application to HUD for property
located at 1000 North Sedgwick and authorizes the CHA to enter into a long term lease with “By
the Hand Club For Kids”. By the Hand Club for Kids” is a faith-based, after-school program.
Of the 62 employees, 34 are current/former CHA residents and serve 215 children, 65% of which
are current/former CHA residents. Currently, “By the Hand Club for Kids” leases space from
the CHA at 1000 N. Sedgwick St. under a Lease that is due to expire on October 31, 2008. In an
effort to consolidate the remaining occupied buildings in the Cabrini area, the CHA intends to
shut down the heating plant that also services the building in which “By the Hand Club for Kids”
now utilizes. “By the Hand Club for Kids” has requested to continue its occupancy of the 1000
N. Sedgwick building under a long-term lease arrangement and has indicated a willingness to
commit to install a heating system at the property. Previously, “By the Hand Club for Kids” has
made other capital improvements to the building at its own expense, so as to continue operations
of its after-school program. It is estimated that the installation of a heating system for the 1000
N. Sedgwick building will cost approximately $100,000. In the event that the CHA needs to
terminate the long term lease arrangement and the newly installed heating system has been
properly maintained and repaired during the term of the Lease, it has been mutually agreed,
pending approval of the Lease, that CHA would reimburse “By the Hand Club for Kids” on a
prorated basis for the remaining value of the heating system at the time of lease termination.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-103
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated August 13, 2008
entitled “Authorization to Submit a Disposition Application to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for Property Located At 1000 N.
Sedgwick St. and Authorization to Enter into a Long Term Lease with “By the
Hand Club for Kids”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to (1) submit a disposition application to HUD for the property located
at 1000 N. Sedgwick St. and (2) authorization to enter into a long term lease for a
base term of 25 years, subject to CHA review every five (5) years, with monthly
rent in the amount of $100.00. The execution of the Lease is subject to HUD
approval. In the event that the CHA terminates the long term lease arrangement
prior to the expiration of the base term and the newly installed heating system is
properly maintained and/or repaired during the term of the Lease by “By the Hand
Club for Kids”, the CHA shall reimburse, on a prorated basis, the remaining value
of the heating system to “By the Hand Club for Kids” at the time of lease
termination. An annual depreciation value of $4,000 will be used for calculating
the remaining value of the heating system.

5

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A2 through A5 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, August 13, 2008 at approximately 2:05 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren
Corporate offices. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee with
the Treasury & Cash Flow Report for the month of July 2008.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced a Motion for the adoption of the Resolution for Item B1,
discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and Audit Committee.
(Item B1)
In accordance with the regulations promulgated by HUD, the CHA must review its flat rent
schedule, which is based on the market rent charged for comparable units in the private
unassisted rental market. In assigning flat rents, the CHA must consider the location, quality,
size, unit type and age of the unit and any amenities, housing services, maintenance and utilities
provided by the CHA. The CHA issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) on April 10, 2008. The
RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA Website. Of the two responses
received both firms scored within that range and were asked to participate in orals. A second
scoring was performed after orals and the submission of best and finals offers. After
consideration of the evaluations and best and final offers Applied Real Estate Analysis is the
recommended awardee. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B1 approves award of contract to
Applied Real Estate Analysis.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-104
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated August 13,
2008, titled, “Authorization to Enter into an Agreement with Applied Real Estate
Analysis to Conduct a Rent Comparison Study”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an agreement with Applied Real Estate Analysis to conduct
a Rent Comparison Study in an amount not to exceed $118,847.10.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item B1 was seconded by Commissioner Ivers and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins

6

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolution adopted. The Finance and Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

7

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 