ITEM NO. B5

March 10, 2010

AUTHORIZATION TO: 1) ENTER INTO A PREDEVELOPMENT LOAN
AGREEMENT WITH RS HOMES II LLC FOR THE ROOSEVELT SQUARE PHASE
IIA DEVELOPMENT IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $4,000,000 AND 2)
EXECUTE SUCH OTHER DOCUMENTS AS NECESSARY TO IMPLEMENT THE
FOREGOING
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan with RS Homes II LLC for the Roosevelt Square
Phase IIA development in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000 and 2) Execute such other documents
as necessary to implement the foregoing.
FUNDING
HOPE VI Funds
Up to $4,000,000 will be used as a loan for eligible predevelopment expenses
MBE/WBE/DBE and SECTION 3 PARTICIPATION
RS Homes II LLC will sign an affidavit stating they will comply with CHA’s MBE/ WBE/DBE and
Section 3 requirements and predevelopment due diligence responsibilities.
EXPLANATION
Related Midwest, Heartland Housing and Quest Development were selected as the result of an RFP
issued by the Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) and the court-appointed Gautreaux Receiver,
Daniel E. Levin and The Habitat Company (“Receiver”), for redevelopment of the ABLA site into a
mixed-income community. Related Midwest has planned the next phase of development, Roosevelt
Square Phase IIA (“RS IIA”), to provide a total of 185 rental units, including 49 units for public
housing residents.
RS IIA will have multiple sub-phase developments in order make it easier to finance and market new
units in the current real estate market. The multi phase RS IIA developments are projected to
include: 1) two, 64 unit market-rate rental buildings for a total of 128 units, 2) a Family Supportive
Housing building with 30 total units, and 3) two rental building with 27 total units. The building
types include townhouses, six flats and two, five story rental buildings.
Each of the two 64 unit buildings will provide 8 units for public housing families, for a total of 16
public housing units. The location of these buildings will be along Roosevelt Road between Racine

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 Avenue and Loomis Street. The predevelopment budget is attached and the proposed CHA
predevelopment loan amount for these two buildings is approximately $1,723,826.
The Family Supportive Housing building and two additional rental buildings will provide a total of
57 affordable and public housing units. The predevelopment budget for these 57 units is attached
and the proposed CHA predevelopment loan amount is approximately $1,753,822.
The Family Supportive Housing building will be located between Throop Street (East), Blue Island
(West), 15th Street (South) and north of the new proposed Police Station along Blue Island. This
development consists of 30 units of which 15 will be set aside for ABLA residents who need extra
supportive services or are on the verge of becoming homeless. This development will provide
special attention for families who are having a hard time staying lease compliant. Some of the
services available to CHA residents will include: Case management; Employment referrals and job
readiness training; Community-building activities for adults and children; Financial wealth-building
education; Community gardening/food security/nutrition; Mental health, substance abuse, and
specialized services; Off-site child care; Off-site health care; and Educational and after school
programming for children by leveraging human capital in the form of corporate volunteers and
collaborations with local universities for tutoring, mentoring; and role modeling programs and
activities.
The other two rental buildings will be located on two separate sites for a total of 27 units with 18
units proposed for public housing residents and 9 units for affordable residents; the first building will
be located along Roosevelt Road between Racine Avenue and Throop Street; the second building is
located along 13th Street between Blue Island Avenue and Racine Avenue. This site is just north of
the new Fire Station that was developed by the PBC to serve the surrounding community.
The developer plans to close on the first sub phase of the two, 64 unit buildings by late summer,
early fall 2010. They currently have building permits and are waiting to finalize the financing. The
Family Supportive Housing development plans to close early in 2011.
PREDEVELOPMENT FINANCE
The Development Agreement provides that predevelopment loans will be offered in amounts not to
exceed 75% of eligible third party predevelopment costs consistent with U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development cost control guidelines and regulations. This predevelopment loan will help
fund a portion of Roosevelt Square IIA pre-development costs, including site planning, survey work,
architect and engineering design, and legal costs. The predevelopment budget is attached to this
resolution. The requested predevelopment CHA loan amount for the two, 64 unit rental buildings is
$1,723,826 and $1,753,822 for the remaining 57 units in the Family Supportive Housing and
additional two rental buildings. This predevelopment loan will be repaid in full to CHA at the real
estate closing for each sub phase closing. All CHA’s MBE/WBE and Section 3 requirements will be
satisfied under the Predevelopment Loan Agreement to be executed between CHA and RS Homes II
LLC.
Based on the foregoing, it is in the best interest of the Chicago Housing Authority to: 1) Enter into a
Predevelopment Loan with RS Homes II LLC for the Roosevelt Square Phase IIA development in an
amount not to exceed $4,000,000 and 2) Execute such other documents as necessary to implement
the foregoing.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-29
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated March 10, 2010,
requesting authorization to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan with RS Homes II
LLC for the Roosevelt Square Phase IIA development in an amount not to exceed
$4,000,000 and 2) Execute such other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT, the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee
to: 1) Enter into a Predevelopment Loan with RS Homes II LLC for the Roosevelt
Square Phase IIA development in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000 and 2)
Execute such other documents as necessary to implement the foregoing.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 