MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING

OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 18, 2003
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting on Tuesday,
February 18, 2003, at 8:30 a.m. at the Sheridan & Leland Apartments, 4645 North Sheridan in
Chicago, Illinois.
The meeting was called to order by the Chairperson, and upon roll call, those present and absent
were as follows:
Present:
Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Lori Healey
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Montel Gayles, Chief of Staff; Gail Niemann, General Counsel; Chicago
Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session and Chairperson Gilliam
thereupon introduced for approval of the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting held on January
21, 2003. Upon Motion made and properly seconded, the Minutes were unanimously approved
and accepted as submitted.
The Chairperson thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session.

An Omnibus Motion to approve the Resolutions for Items 1 and 2 discussed in Executive
Session was then presented by Commissioner Gates.

1

 (Executive Session Item 1)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-16
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 18, 2003
requesting authorization to amend the contract amount with Ungaretti & Harris in
connection with Alfred Aaron et al. v. CHA, 99L 11738.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to amend Contract No. 9504 with Ungaretti & Harris to increase the
contract amount in an amount not to exceed $3,700,000.00 in order to pay for
legal fees and expenses regarding Alfred Aaron, et al. v. CHA, 99 L 11738
litigation matter.

(Executive Session Item 2)
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-17
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 3, 2003 requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approve the Personnel Action Report for January 2003.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions for January
2003.

The Motion to adopt the Resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 and 2 was seconded by
Commissioner Healey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner Sandra Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular
meeting on Wednesday, February 12 at 1:00 p.m. at the 626 Corporate Office. Meghan Harte,
Managing Director of Resident Services, presented the Committee with a comprehensive report
on Resident Programs.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items A1 through A3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant
Services Committee.
(Item A1)
The Department of Commerce and Community Affairs (DCCA) has awarded a $200,000
member initiative grant from the Illinois First Fund to the CHA as partial funding for the
renovation of the Wentworth Gardens Park Field House. The renovation project will include
architectural finishes, removal and replacement of roof, skylights, windows, interior and
exterior doors, plumbing, lighting, floor tiling and will address ADA accessibility for the
building and has an estimated total cost of $1,042,500. The fund ing from this award completes
the budget necessary for renovation of the Field House as a joint project between the Chicago
Park District (CPD) and CHA. The other funds required for this project were secured through
an Urban Park and Recreation Recovery grant from the National Park Service to CPD in the
amount of $500,000 and CPD’s contribution of $342,500. To avoid the possibility of losing
the State award and the necessity of expediting the processing of the Grant Agreement, the

2

 Chief Executive Officer accepted the Grant and executed the Grant Agreement. The resolution
for Item A1 ratifies the acceptance and execution of the Grant Agreement.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-18
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated February 3, 2003 entitled “Ratification of acceptance of a
Grant from and execution of a Grant Agreement with the Illinois Department of
Commerce and Community Affairs, approval of an increase to the Authority’s
Fiscal Year 2003 Comprehensive Budget in an amount of such grant upon its
receipt and authorization to negotiate and enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Park District to renovate the Wentworth Garden
Park Field House”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners:
(1)

(2)
(3)

Ratifies acceptance of the grant award from and execution of a Grant
agreement with the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs for the amount of $200,000 for the renovation of the Wentworth
Gardens Park Field House (Field House); and
Authorizes an increase to the Authority’s fiscal year 2003 Comprehensive
Budget in the amount of such Grant upon receipt of the Grant funds; and
Authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to negotiate and
enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago Park District as
part of a joint project between the Chicago Park District and the Chicago
Housing Authority to renovate the Field House and provide the Chicago
Park District with the Grant award in the amount of $200,000 therefore.

(Item A2)
In May 2002, the Authority in partnership with the Chicago Department of Aging submitted an
application to HUD’s Notice of Funding Availability for the Resident Opportunities and SelfSufficiency Service (ROSS) Coordinator program. The purpose of the ROSS program is to
assist elderly CHA residents living in Senior housing developments and ensure that these
residents have access to services that improve their quality of life. On December 4, 2002, CHA
received a formal notification approval of its request in the amount of $597,225. The resolution
for Item A2, thereby, grants approval for the acceptance of the grant award.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-19
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated January 29, 2003, entitled “Authorization to Accept Funding
and Enter Into A Grant Agreement With The U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development For A Resident Opportunities and Self-Sufficiency
Program.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept an award of a Grant from, and enter into a grant agreement
with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Resident
Opportunities and Self-Sufficiency (“ROSS”) Service Coordinator program in the
amount of $597,225 for the period of July 16, 2003 to July 16, 2004 using the FY
2002 ROSS Service Connector Program Grant award.

Item A3)
The Authority is continually working to ensure effective low- income public housing and
housing choice voucher program policies, procedures, and processes are in place to meet its
managerial needs as well as various federal, state, and local laws/regulations. This requires
document development, training program development, training delivery and general technical
knowledge in both the CHA’s low income public housing and the Section 8 program. These
major projects are often simultaneous and are required on an aggressive timeline due to
legislative deadlines, agency need and departmental workflow. To counter these workflow with
peaks and aggressive timelines, and to provide expertise derived from experiences of other

3

 Housing Authorities and similar agencies, the CHA seeks consulting services to provide
assistance to the CHA’s MAP Department, accordingly, an RFP was issued in November 2002.
The RFP was mailed to 23 prospective respondents, including 5 MBE/WBE’s. Seven copies of
the RFP were picked up and a total of five responses were received. Of the five responses
received, all were deemed responsive. The evaluation committee selected ABT as the
recommended awardee. The resolution for Item A3 therefore approves an award of cont ract to
ABT.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-20
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 30,
2003 entitled “Authorization to Enter into a Contract with Abt Associates, Inc. for
Consultant Services for Low Income Public Hous ing/Housing Choice Voucher
Program Policies and Procedures”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Abt Associates, Inc. for Consultant Services
for Low Income Public Housing/Housing Choice Voucher Program Policies and
Procedures for a sum not-to-exceed $210,000.00, with said contract having a term
of two (2) years with an option of the CHA to extend said term by one (1)
additional year, subject to HUD and Board approval.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 through A3 was seconded by
Commissioner Amey and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Earnest Gates then presented the following report. Per Commissioner Gates, the
Operations & Facilities Committee met on Wednesday February 12, 2003, at 1:30 p.m. at the
Corporate Office, 626 W. Jackson in Chicago.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items B1 through B3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations
and Facilities Committees:

(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves a 99 year Rental and For Sale Ground Lease with Jazz on
the Boulevard LLC. The CHA owned land at the Jazz on the Boulevard development site is an
approximately 2.9 acre parcel. The Jazz on the Boulevard development project calls for a
mixed- income community of 137 units on the total development site. The development will
have 30 public housing replacement units for the Lakefront Properties, 9 affordable rental units,
27 affordable for-sale and 71 market rate for-sale units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-21
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated January 17,
2003, requesting authorization to enter into a 99-year rental and for-sale ground
lease with Jazz on the Boulevard LLC and to execute other documents as

4

 necessary to implement the Mixed Finance Development Plan known as Jazz on
the Boulevard.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a 99 year rental and for-sale ground lease with Jazz on the
Boulevard LLC for the CHA owned parcel that is a part of the Jazz on the
Boulevard deve lopment site and to execute such other documents as necessary to
implement the Mixed Finance Deve lopment Plan known as Jazz on the
Boulevard.

(Item B2)
As part of the CHA’s Plan For Transformation, the CHA requires demolition of the Washington
Park Apartments, a family development consisting of 12 buildings that was constructed in 1967.
Work is scheduled to commence in 2003 to demolish 10 of the buildings. An Invitation For Bid
was advertised in December 2002 in area newspapers. The CHA also directly solicited 41
companies, including 13 M/WBE firms. The work was divided into 4 demolition packages.
Bidders were requested to bid on all 4 packages. The CHA indicated in the bid documents that it
would be in the agency’s best interest to maintain multiple vendor capacity and that no single
firm would be awarded more than one demolition package . Of the 11 bids received, Delta
Demolition, Speedway Wrecking Company, DMD Services, and Leeway Wrecking were the
lowest responsible bidders. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B2 approves award of contracts
to the four stated companies.

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-22
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 3, 2003
entitled “authorization to execute contracts with DMD Services, Inc., Speedway
Wrecking Company, Delta Demolition, Inc., and Leeway Wrecking, Inc. for
demolition of 10 low-rise buildings at Washington Park Apartments, Project IL254 – IFB No. 01167”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into four (4) contracts for demolition of 10 low rise buildings at
Washington Park Apartments, Project Number IL2-54 with an aggregate cost not
to exceed $573,990. The contracts will be awarded to:

DEMO
NAME OF FIRM
PKG. NO. BUILDING ADDRESSES
Speedway Wrecking Co.
1
123-25 E. 39th St.
3910-12 S. Indiana Ave.
3914-16 S. Indiana Ave.

#OF
UNITS
12
12
12

CONTRACT
AMOUNT
$172,000

Delta Demolition, Inc.

2

4520-22 S. Champlain Ave.
4524-26 S. Champlain Ave.
4528-30 S. Champlain Ave.

12
12
12

$158,140

Leeway Wrecking, Inc.

3

4140 S. Langley Ave.

12

$ 71,000

DMD Services, Inc.

4

560-62 E. 40th St.
600-02 E. 40th St.
604-06 E. 40th St.

12
12
12
120

$172,850

TOTAL:

$573,990

(Item B3)
Professional environmental remediation services are needed by the Authority to address
environmental hazards such as lead, mold and asbestos throughout the CHA as the need arises
on a timely basis. In order to foster the health and safety of CHA residents and the general
public, the CHA must be able to quickly respond to environmental hazards in various CHA

5

 developments upon receipt of notice of such hazards or notification of code violations relating
to such hazards. Accordingly, the CHA issued an RFP on November 2002 to solicit proposals
for Authority-wide environmental remediation services. The RFP was advertised in area
newspapers and the CHA also directly solicited 28 firms including 16 M/W/DBE firms. The
eight proposals received were evaluated pursuant to the RFP’s stated evaluation criteria. Three
firms were determined to be within the competitive range. Discussions were then held with
each of these firms, after which they were asked to submit best and final fee proposals. In order
to have highly qualified professional remediation service vendors in place to provide the CHA
with the capacity to perform environmental remediation services when needed, the Resolution
for Item B3 awards contract to the two highest ranked firms in the competitive range and whose
overall proposed fees were most advantageous to the CHA.

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-23
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated February 6, 2003
entitled “Authorization to execute contracts with Enviroplus, Inc. and Tecnica
Environmental Service, Inc. for Authority-wide environmental remediation
services - RFP NO. 01154”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into two (2) indefinite quantity contracts, each with for a
minimum of $100,000 for a two (2) year base term for an aggregate cost not to
exceed $2,000,000 with a one year renewal option for Authority-wide
environmental remediation services with:
1. Enviroplus, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed $1,150,000; and
2. Tecnica Environmental Services, Inc. for an amount not-to-exceed
$850,000

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 through B3 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations & Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Leticia Peralta Davis then presented the fo llowing report. Per Commissioner
Davis, the Finance & Audit Committee met on Wednesday February 12, 2003, at 2:00 p.m. at the
Corporate Office, 626 W. Jackson in Chicago. Todd Gomez, Chief Financial Officer, and his
staff presented the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report as of January 31, 2003
and with the Quarterly Grant Progress Report as of December 31, 2002.
Commissioner Davis then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the resolutions for
Items C1 through C4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance &
Audit Committee:
(Item C1)
Pursuant to the Authority’s Plan for Transformation (the “Plan”), the Authority has undertaken to
transform public housing in the City of Chicago. The Plan contemplates large-scale capital

6

 improvements to upgrade the Authority’s inventory of housing units, including, the demolition of
approximately 18,000 obsolete housing units and the rehabilitation and construction of
approximately 25,000 housing units. A key component of the Plan is the development of mixedincome communities to end the isolation of public housing and continue the tradition of
Chicago’s vibrant, diverse neighborhoods. Lake Park Crescent will be a new mixed income
community of approximately 490 residential units. The development site formerly was occupied
by CHA’s Lakefront public housing project, and is being redeveloped pursuant to a Request for
Proposal issued jointly by the City of Chicago and The Habitat Company. The Resolution for
Item C1 grants approval to the Chief Executive Officer to execute and deliver the Note Issuance
Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Assignment and Security Agreement, and such other
documentation as is contemplated with regards to Lake Park Crescent I L.P. Project. The
Authority is issuing the Note in order to comply with Federal Housing Administration
requirements. The Note will be paid by equity contributions to the Borrower and is guaranteed
by the General Partner of the Borrower; there is no risk or liability to the Authority on the Note.
The Authority has no obligation to fund the Note independent of the receipt of advances from
SunAmerica Investments, Inc.. The lender’s obligation to make advances to the Authority will
be guaranteed by American International Group, Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-24
RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE OF NOT TO EXCEED $8,400,000
AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVENUE
NOTE (LAKE PARK CRESCENT ASSOCIATES I L.P. PROJECT) OF THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY AND AUTHORIZING THE SALE THEREOF;
AUTHORIZING THE LOAN OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE NOTE TO LAKE PARK
CRESCENT ASSOCIATES I L.P. TO BE USED TO PAY COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION
OF THE LAKE PARK CRESCENT PROJECT; AUTHORIZING THE SALE OF THE
NOTE TO SUNAMERICA INVESTMENTS, INC.; AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION
AND DELIVERY OF ALL NOTE DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE
ISSUANCE AND SALE OF THE NOTE; AND RELATED MATTERS.
WHEREAS, the Chicago Housing Authority, a municipal corporation and a body politic
and corporate duly organized and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
Illinois (the “Authority”), including without limitation the Housing Authorities Act, 310 ILCS
10/1 et seq., and all laws amendatory and supplemental thereto, including in particular the Local
Government Debt Reform Act, 30 ILCS 350/1 et seq. (the “Act”), is authorized by the laws of
the State of Illinois (the “State”), including without limitation the Act, to issue its revenue bonds
and notes for the purposes set forth in the Act and to permit the expenditure of the proceeds
thereof to finance the cost of the development and construction of multifamily rental housing
located in the jurisdiction of the Authority; and
WHEREAS, Lake Park Crescent Associates I L.P., an Illinois limited partnership (the
“Borrower”) proposes to finance a portion of the costs of the construction of the first phase of
Lake Park Crescent consisting of 490 apartment units in 97 buildings in Chicago, Illinois (the
“Project”) through the issuance by the Authority of its Multi-Family Housing Revenue Note
(Lake Park Crescent Associates I L.P. Project) (the “Note”); and
WHEREAS, the general partner of the Borrower is Lake Park Crescent Associates GP I
LLC, an Illinois limited liability company; and
WHEREAS, a determination has been made by the Authority that the Project constitutes
“multifamily rental housing” within the meaning of the Act and that the financing thereof will
meet the public purposes of the Act; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Authority is
now prepared to proceed with the financing of a portion of the costs of the Project through the
issuance and sale of the Note pursuant to a Note Issuance Agreement (the “Note Issuance
Agreement”) between the Authority and SunAmerica Investments, Inc., as Noteholder (the
“Noteholder”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds of the Note will be loaned by the Authority to the Borrower
pursuant to a Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) between the Authority and the Borrower
and the obligations of the Borrower to pay debt service under the Loan Agreement will be
evidenced by a Promissory Note (the “Promissory Note”) from the Borrower to the Authority

7

 which will be assigned by the Authority to the Noteholder; and
WHEREAS, the Note will be sold by private placement to SunAmerica Investments, Inc.,
as Noteholder; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower’s obligations under the Note will be secured by a Guarantee
from Draper and Kramer, Incorporated (the “Guarantee”); and
WHEREAS, in connection with the Note, the Authority shall enter into an Assignment and
Security Agreement (the “Assignment and Security Agreement”), between the Authority and the
Noteholder, whereby the Authority will assign its rights under the Loan Agreement (other than
its Unassigned Rights, as defined therein) to the Noteholder; and
WHEREAS, the Note Issuance Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Note, the Promissory
Note and the Assignment and Security Agreement are referred to collectively herein as the
“Authority Agreements”; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has caused to be prepared and presented to this meeting each of
the Authority Agreements;
NOW THEREFORE, B E IT R ESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
Section 1.
The Authority is authorized to enter into the Authority Agreements with
the other party or parties thereto in substantially the same forms now before the Authority. The
forms, terms and provisions of the Authority Agreements be, and they hereby are, in all respects
approved. The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the
Authority be, and each of them hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to execute and
deliver, and, where necessary, the Executive Advisor to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer,
the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be and each of them hereby is,
authorized, empowered and directed to attest and to affix the official seal of the Authority to, the
Authority Agreements in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority, and thereupon to cause
the Authority Agreements to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the other party or
parties thereto, in substantially the forms now before the Authority or with such changes therein
as the individual executing the Authority Agreements on behalf of the Authority shall approve,
his or her execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval of any and all
changes or revisions therein from the forms of Authority Agreements now before the Authority.
When the Authority Agreements are executed, attested, sealed and delivered on behalf of the
Authority as hereinabove provided, they shall be binding on the Authority. From and after the
execution and delivery of the Authority Agreements, the officers, employees and agents of the
Authority are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to do all such acts and things and to
execute all such documents as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the provisions of
the Authority Agreements as executed. The Authority Agreements shall constitute, and hereby
are made, a part of this Resolution, and copies of the Authority Agreements shall be placed in the
official records of the Authority, and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
Authority.
Section 2.
The Note shall be issued in fully registered form, in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $8,400,000, in authorized denominations as provided in the Note Issuance
Agreement. The Note shall bear interest at such rate or rates as shall be set forth in the Note
Issuance Agreement, in no event to exceed the greater of 13.5% per annum or 200% of the rate
for the most recent date shown in the 20 G.O. Bonds Index of average municipal bond yields as
published in the most recent edition of the Bond Buyer (or any successor publication or index).
The Note shall mature on suc h date or dates as shall be set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement,
but in no event later than 40 years following the date of their initial issuance and delivery to the
initial purchasers thereof. The Note shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided
in the Note Issuance Agreement.
Section 3.
To evidence the exercise of the authority delegated to the officers of the
Authority by this Resolution, the Chief Financial Officer is hereby directed to execute and file
with the Secretary of the Authority in connection with the issuance of the Note a certificate
setting forth the determinations made pursuant to authority granted herein, which certificate shall
constitute conclusive evidence of the proper exercise by such officers of such authority.
Contemporaneously with the filing of such certificate, the Chief Financial Officer shall also file
with the Secretary of the Authority one copy of the final form of each of the Authority

8

 Agreements. Each filing shall be made as soon as practicable subsequent to the issuance of the
Note.
Section 4.
The Note and the interest thereon will be special, limited obligations of the
Authority, payable solely from the payments to be made by the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement or from the other sources specified or referred to in the Note Issuance Agreement,
which shall be specifically assigned and pledged to such purposes in the manner and to the extent
provided therein. The Note and all other obligations of the Authority in connection therewith
shall not be a debt of the City or any other city, village, incorporated town or county, the State of
Illinois or any political subdivision thereof and neither the City, nor any other city, village,
incorporated town or county, nor the State of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof sha ll be
liable thereon, nor in any event shall the Note or such obligations be payable out of any funds or
properties other than those pledged under the Note Issuance Agreement or those other
agreements specifically securing the Note. The Note shall not constitute an indebtedness within
the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
Section 5.
The form of the Note set forth in the Note Issuance Agreement, subject to
appropriate insertions and revisions in order to comply with the provisions of the Note Issuance
Agreement (as executed and delivered) be, and the same hereby is approved. The Note shall be
executed in the name, for and on behalf of the Authority with the manual or facsimile signature
of its Chairman (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the Note on behalf of the
Authority) and attested with the manual or facsimile signature of its Executive Advisor to the
Board, Secretary or Assistant Secretary (or such other officer authorized by law to execute the
Bonds on behalf of the Authority) and the seal of the Authority shall be impressed or imprinted
thereon. The officers of the Authority shall cause the Note, as so executed and attested, to be
delivered to the Fiscal Agent for authentication. When the Note shall be executed on behalf of
the Authority in the manner contemplated by the Indentures and this Resolution, they shall
represent the approved forms of Note of the Authority.
Section 6.
The sale of the Note to the Noteholder at a purchase price of not less than
97% (exclusive of original issue discount) of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued
interest, if any, to the date of delivery, is hereby approved. The Note may be sold with original
issue premium or discount.
Section 7.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the
Executive Advisor to the Board, the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary of the Authority be,
and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute and deliver such documents, certificates, and
undertakings of the Authority (including, without limitation, environmental remediation
agreements, investment agreements, book-entry registration agreements, and intercreditor
agreements) and to take such other actions as may be required or desirable in connection with the
execution, delivery and performance of the Authority Agreements, the financing of costs of the
Project and the issuance, sale and delivery of the Note.
Section 8.
All acts of the officers, employees and agents of the Authority which are
in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution be, and the same hereby are, in all
respects, ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 9.
The provisions of this Resolution are hereby declared to be separable and
if any section, phrase or provision hereof shall for any reason be declared to be invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remainder of the sections, phrases and provisions of
this Resolution.
Section 10.
All resolutions and orders, or parts thereof, in conflict herewith are hereby
superseded to the extent of such conflict.
This Resolut ion shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its passage, as by law
provided.
(Item C2)
The United States Congress recently enacted legislation called the Economic Growth and Tax
Reconciliation Act of 2001 (EGTRRA). Certain provisions of this legislation require or permit
changes to qualified employee retirement benefit plans such as the CHA’s Retirement Plan. The
Amendment adopts changes for a new Mortality Table, the “94 GAR”, for adjusting any benefit
or limitation under Internal Revenue Code Section 415(b)(2)(B)(C) or (D) and Section 417(e) for
Amendment No. 7.

9

 RESOLUTION NO.2003-CHA-25
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated January 28, 2003,
entitled “Authorization to Amend the Chicago Housing Authority Emplo yees’
Retirement Plan and Trust”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve Amendment Seven of the Chicago Housing Authority
Employees’ Retirement Plan and Trust in the form and as of the effective dates
indicated in the attached Amendment

(Item C3)
The CHA’s Broker of Record for Employee Benefits, Asch & Associates, Inc., directly solicited
requests for insurance premium quotes from 11 top healthcare insurance providers (including
CHA’s current providers) in their respective fields for employee medical, dental, and vision
insurance. The national trend for rate increases, as reported by the Segal Health Plan Survey, has
been projected to exceed 14% in employee medical insurance premiums and 6.5% for dental
insurance premiums for the year 2003. The resolution for Item C3 awards contract to Humana,
Delta Dental and Davis Vision based on the premiums quoted.
RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-26
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Memorandum dated January 23, 2003, entitled “Authorization to enter into
contracts with Humana, Delta Dental and Davis Vision for the CHA’s Employee
Health Benefit Plan”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority authorizes the
Chief Executive Officer or his designee to enter into contracts with: (1) Humana,
Inc. for the benefit year of April 1, 2003 through March 31, 2004 for an amount
not-to-exceed $3,370,000 with an option to extend the contract for an additional
nine month term; and (2) Delta Dental Plan of Illinois for an amount not-toexceed $350,000 and Davis Vision, Inc. for an amo unt not-to-exceed $80,000 for
the period of April 1, 2003 through December 31, 2004 for CHA’s Employee
Health Benefit Plan covering eligible participants of the CHA and eligible
participants of the CHA’s affiliates for an aggregate amount not-to-exceed
$3,800,000.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 approves execution of amendment No. 125 to the Annual
Contributions Contract, C-1014. Amendment No. 125 provides and additional $1,392,527.66
for Project IL06P002180 (Hutchinson Row), provides and additional $3,031,145 for Project
IL06P002182 (Cabrini) and amends the count of units under the CHA ACC with respect to the
addition of 330 units under the rehabilitation of Project IL06P002216 (Brooks Homes) to replace
the units removed from the CHA ACC approved for demolition, de-concentration and
rehabilitation.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2003-CHA-27
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 4,
2003 entitled” Authorization to execute Amendment No. 125 to the Chicago
Housing Authority’s Annual Contributions Contract, C-1014 (“CHA ACC”) for
Project Nos. IL06P02003, 180, 182, 206, and 216 and confirmation of
authorization to execute Amendment 124 to the CHA ACC” and concurs with the
recommendations contained therein.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Resolution 2002-CHA-184 of December 17, 2002 authorizing entering into
Amendment 124 to the Annual Contributions Contract, C-1014 is hereby
confirmed.

10

 THAT,

the Chicago Housing Authority shall enter into Amendment No. 125 with HUD,
modifying the terms of the Annual Contributions Contract, and the Chief
Executive Officer, or his designee, is hereby authorized and directed to execute
Amendment No. 125 of the Annual Contributions Contract in quintuplicate and
the Custodian and Keeper of Records is authorized and directed to attest and
impress the official seal of the Chicago Housing Authority on each such
counterpart. The aforesaid Amendment No. 125 shall be substantially in the
attached form.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 through C4 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Hallie Amey
Lori Healey
Mamie Bone
Leticia Peralta Davis
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Sandra Young

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made, seconded
and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

S/B:

S/B: Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Sharon Gist Gilliam
Chairperson

 