MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
May 17, 2016
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, May 17, 2016, at approximately 11:20 a.m. at the CHA Corporate Offices,
60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor Loft in Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Jack Markowski, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per
Commissioner Markowski, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting earlier today, at the
CHA Corporate Offices. Commissioner Markowski chaired the meeting and the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer, Cozzi and Harris. Present also but not counted
for the quorum were Chairman Hooker, Vice-Chairman Chico and Commissioner Washington.
Committee members then discussed, voted and recommend for approval the following two items:
(Item 1)
HUD requires public housing authorities to annually publish a complete set of financial statements
presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and audited in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a firm of licensed certified public accountants.
For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Authority engaged Ernst and Young to audit its results and
issue the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report in accordance with HUD requirements. The
Authority is required to submit the Financial Statement Audit and Financial Report to HUD by
September 30, 2016, nine months after the end of its fiscal year (December 31). Accordingly, the
Finance and Audit Committee has reviewed and approved the Chicago Housing Authority’s audited
financial statements pursuant to the Audit Committee’s Charter and the resolution for Item 1 authorizes
the CEO to submit such documents to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD).
1

 WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-50
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17,
2016 and attached hereto entitled “Recommendation to Accept and Submit to
HUD the Chicago Housing Authority’s
Financial Statement Audit and
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for the Year Ended December 31,
2015;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT

The Board of Commissioners hereby accepts the Authority’s



THAT

2015 Financial Statement Audit, and
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report For The Year Ended
December 31, 2015; and

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to submit the Financial Statement Audit and Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2015 to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.

(Item 2)
The Wide Area Network/Metropolitan Area Network infrastructure interconnects 84 CHA locations
throughout Chicago and provides CHA and its contractors with communication services comprised of
voice, data and video. CHA would like to upgrade and expand the existing services to an additional 178
sites. This will provide CHA personnel and first responders with real time access to CHA’s video
surveillance network and inter-connect the remaining video surveillance cameras installed through-out
Scattered Sites portfolio. Accordingly, the resolution for Item No. 2 approves agreements with Comcast
Business Communications in a not-to-exceed amount of $2,079,396 for a three (3) year base term,
$693,132 for two (2) one-year option periods each, for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of
$3,465,660; AT&T in a not-to-exceed amount of $2,302,772 for a three (3) year base term, $717,590 for
two (2) one-year options each, for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $3,737,952; and Lightower
Fiber Networks II in a not-to-exceed amount of $180,576 for a three (3) year base term, $54,173 for two
(2) one-year option periods each, for an amount not-to-exceed $288,922, to provide voice, data and
video services for CHA’s Communications Infrastructure.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-51
the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed
the Board letter dated May 17, 2016 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO AGREEMENTS WITH COMCAST IN NOT-TO-EXCEED AMOUNT
OF $3,465,660, AT&T IN NOT-TO-EXCEED AMOUNT OF $3,737,952 AND
LIGHTOWER FIBER NETWORKS II IN NOT-TO-EXCEED AMOUNT OF
$288,922 TO PROVIDE VOICE, DATA AND VIDEO SERVICES

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
2

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into agreements with Comcast Business Communications in a
not-to-exceed amount of $2,079,396 for a three (3) year base term, $693,132
for two (2) one-year option periods each, for an aggregate not-to-exceed
amount of $3,465,660; AT&T in a not-to-exceed amount of $2,302,772 for a
three (3) year base term, $717,590 for two (2) one-year options each, for an
aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $3,737,952; and Lightower Fiber Networks
II in a not-to-exceed amount of $180,576 for a three (3) year base term,
$54,173 for two (2) one-year option periods each, for an amount not-to-exceed
$288,922,
to provide voice, data and video services for CHA’s
Communications Infrastructure.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
applicable MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 and 2 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.

In the absence of Commissioner Bridget Reidy, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, ViceChairman Craig Chico presented her report. Per Commissioner Chico, the Tenant Services Committee
held its regular meeting at approximately 10:00 a.m. at the CHA’s Corporate Offices. Commissioner
Chico chaired the meeting and the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners
Harris and Washington. Present also, but not counted for the quorum were Commissioners Brewer,
Cozzi, Markowski and Chairman Hooker.
On behalf of Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Chico presented a Motion for the approval of
Item 3.
(Item 3)
CHA has provided summer employment programming for an average of more than 1,000 youth each
summer since 2009 through grant funding from the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services
(DFSS). This year CHA has been awarded funding by DFSS to build upon the success of the 2015
Summer Youth Employment Program (SYEP) which served 1,746 CHA youth, who earned a total of
more than $900,000.00 in wages. SYEP is a part of the Mayor’s One Summer Chicago initiative, which
ensures that youth have meaningful summer academic enrichment and work experiences. SYEP also
provides safe summer experiences while helping youth, ages 16-24, build valuable employment skills.
3

 Participants receive on-going job readiness instruction and career exploration while working 140 hours
over the course of seven weeks; the entire grant award will be used to pay training wages to CHA youth
in accordance with the One Summer Chicago program model. Once the grant award funds are fully
expended, CHA will utilize additional CHA funding to pay participant wages. CHA’s participation in
SYEP contributes to the One Summer Chicago total enrollment goal of 2,400 youth. Accordingly, the
resolution for Item 3 approves acceptance of a grant award and approval of an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services in the amount of
$1,160,000.00 to implement and administer the Summer Youth Employment Program, and to utilize
CHA funding for CHA youth participant wages in an amount not to exceed $920,000.00.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-52
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17, 2016
entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ACCEPT A GRANT AWARD AND
EXECUTE AN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY
OF CHICAGO DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY AND SUPPORT SERVICES TO
IMPLEMENT AND ADMINISTER THE SUMMER YOUTH EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAM, AND UTILIZE CHA FUNDING FOR CHA YOUTH
PARTICIPANT WAGES”

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: accept a grant award and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement
with the Chicago Department of Family and Support Services in the amount of
$1,160,000.00 to implement and administer the Summer Youth Employment
Program, and to utilize CHA funding for CHA youth participant wages in an
amount not to exceed $920,000.00.
Compliance with CHA MBE/WBE/DBE and Section 3 is not applicable to this
agreement.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 3 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the voting was as
follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee
4

 members were present as well: Commissioners Markowski and Washington. Although Chairman
Hooker and Commissioners Chico and Harris were also present they were not counted toward the
quorum. Committee member then discussed, voted and recommend for approval the six items appearing
on the agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves a contract modification with Madison Construction in the amount of
$482,982 for the purchase of a new emergency generator for the Judge Slater Annex project. The CHA
explored ways to minimize the cost of the replacement including investigating whether an existing
emergency generator at its Caroline Hedger project (also being constructed by Madison Construction)
could be refurbished and serve as a replacement. The CHA’s initial estimate prior to investigating the
condition of the Hedger generator was between $50,000 to $100,000, which would not have resulted in a
change order requiring Board approval. The results of a thorough investigation revealed that the Hedger
generator was not a good fit because: (a) it had a remaining useful life of 10 years, (b) refurbishment
would not have resulted in any manufacturer warranties or would have resulted in piecemeal limited
warranties for repair or replacement of components only and (c) the aggregate cost of refurbishment and
installation would approximate $350,000. A new generator will cost $482,000 inclusive of installation,
come with desired manufacturer’s warranties and have a useful life of 25 years. Staff has verified that
the amount to perform the work by this contractor is within an acceptable range of the CHA’s
Independent Cost Estimate for this change order.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-53
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17, 2016
“AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT MODIFICATION FOR C11380 JUDGE SLATER ANNEX”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

Original Contract
Value

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a modification to C-11380 with Madison Construction in the
amount of $482,981.43:

Current Contract
Value

Contract
Modifications to
be Approved
(May 2016
Board)

% of
Original
Contract
Value This
Change
Order

Cumulative
Change Order
Total

All Change
Orders as a
Cumulative
% of
Original
Contract

Cumulative
Amount
Over
$100,000?

Revised Contract
Amount

C-11380 Madison Construction
Modernization & Life Safety Upgrades at Judge Slater Annex (4218 S. Cottage Grove)

$ 10,098,500.00

$ 11,002,608.81

$ 482,981.43

4.78%

$1,350,881.58

5

13.38%

Yes

$ 11,449,381.58

 This item is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and
insurance requirements.
(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves the 1) Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders for the
Westhaven Park Phase IIB Rental and Subsequent Rental Phases and amend the CHA Admissions and
Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such documents as an addendum thereto, 2) Enter into a
long-term lease with WHP Village, LLC at 125 North Hoyne Avenue for property management space
for the Villages of Westhaven, subject to HUD approval; and 3) Execute and deliver such other
documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
The Henry Horner Superblock is a CHA public housing development constructed between 1995 and
1999 which consists of 201 dwelling units: 200 residential apartments and one management unit. This
development is located adjacent to the original CHA Henry Horner Homes public housing site in
Chicago’s Near West Side community. In 2002 CHA selected the development team of BMH-I, LLC to
improve the former Henry Horner Homes site into a new mixed income development now known as
Westhaven Park. To date, this redeveloped site includes 579 new housing units for public housing,
affordable, and market rate families. The next phase of Westhaven Park plans for substantial
rehabilitation of the Henry Horner Superblock property, Villages of Westhaven, to occur simultaneously
with the conversion of the property into a mixed income development. It is understood that the developer
has an interest and desire to implement its own lease forms and policy that encourages consistent
community standards for the effective management of the development.
Commissioner Craig Chico abstained from voting on item No. 5.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-54
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17, 2016
entitled “Authorization to: 1) Approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease
Riders for the Westhaven Park Phase IIB Rental and Subsequent Rental Phases
and amend the CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate
such documents as an addendum thereto, 2) Enter into a long-term lease with
WHP Village, LLC at 125 North Hoyne Avenue for property management space
for the Villages of Westhaven, subject to HUD approval; and 3) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to: 1) Approve the Tenant Selection Plan, Lease and Lease Riders for the
Westhaven Park Phase IIB Rental and Subsequent Rental Phases and amend the
CHA Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy to incorporate such
documents as an addendum thereto, 2) Enter into a long-term lease with WHP
Village, LLC at 125 North Hoyne Avenue for property management space for the
Villages of Westhaven, subject to HUD approval; and 3) Execute and deliver such
other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
6

 (Item 6)
On April 15, 2014, the CHA Board approved the sale of vacant CHA land at the site of the former
Robert Taylor Homes to XS Tennis LLC, for $2M dollars paid at closing and $2.6M in commensurate
benefits that include: reserving annually 60 class scholarships valued at $180,000 for CHA youth in the
XS Tennis programs and reserving for CHA residents 2-3 employment opportunities for a total annual
salary compensation not to exceed $80,000. The scholarships and jobs are equivalent to $2.6M over a
ten-year period, for a total value of $4.6M. The XS Tennis Village project involves the development of
13.54 acres of vacant land to include a 150,991 square foot tennis and sports facility with a separate
2,500 square foot clubhouse and parking for approximately 160 vehicles. XS Tennis Village LLC is
utilizing a New Markets Tax Credit funding partnership to build the state of the art indoor and outdoor
tennis and recreation facility. CHA was made aware that the project has generated a multi-million-dollar
budget gap as a result of some additional environmental remediation costs, electrical utility rerouting and
establishment of industry standard contingency and reserve funds. CHA staff met with the
owner/developer in an effort to better understand the budget gap and entertain funding options that
would close the funding gap without disturbing the existing New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC)
partnership in order to get the project underway and completed. CHA staff also requested a finance
“workout” meeting with other gap financing lenders to determine the best course of action to avoid any
potential funding defaults. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 6 approves 1) a loan agreement with XS
Tennis Education and Foundation for a loan in the amount of $1,500,000; 2) use the Federal Home Loan
Bank (FHLB) line of credit to fund the loan; 3) negotiate and execute transaction and related financing
documents; and 4) authorize the pledge of non-federal Government National Mortgage Association
(“GNMA”) securities. Prior to funding the loan, CHA will negotiate and obtain additional community
benefits specific to CHA residents in the form of Section 3 employment opportunities; ensure CHA
collateral position supersedes Donor Funds; obtain formal approval from PNC that the project is “in
balance” and NMTC disbursements are approved and obtain documentation and evidence that all
“workout” funding sources are approved and funded.
Commissioner Cozzi abstained from voting on Item No.6.

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-55
the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May
17, 2016 entitled “Request for authorization to: 1) Enter into a loan
agreement with XS Tennis and Education Foundation in the amount of
$1,500,000; 2) Use the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) line of
credit to fund the loan; 3) Negotiate and execute transaction and related
financing documents; 4) Authorize the pledge of non-federal
Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) securities; and
5) Perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or
his designee to: 1) Enter into a loan agreement with XS Tennis
Education Foundation in the amount of $1,500,000; 2) Use the Federal
Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) line of credit to fund the loan; 3) Negotiate
and execute transaction and related financing documents; 4) Authorize
the pledge of non-federal Government National Mortgage Association
7

 (“GNMA”) securities; and 5) Perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This approval is subject to each Contractor’s compliance with CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 approves submittal of Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD)

Financing Plans to HUD and enter into RAD conversion commitments with HUD for
Major Robert Lawrence Apartments, Minnie Riperton Apartments, Daniel Burnham
Apartments, Judge Fisher Apartments, Judge Slater Apartments (and Annex) and Lincoln
Perry Apartments (and Annex); commit CHA funds not to exceed $32,500,000 to fund
initial replacement reserves, elevator modernization work and transaction costs for the
previously 6 named properties; commit CHA funds not-to-exceed $1,200,000 to fund
elevator modernization work at Caroline Hedger Apartments; transfer ownership of the
improvements of the seven named properties to Chicago Housing Administration LLC;
execute 99-year Ground Leases for the underlying land and perform such actions as may
be necessary to implement the foregoing. Major Robert Lawrence Apartments, located at 655
W. 65th Street, is a 14-story building designated as senior public housing and containing 193 units. The
building is located on a 1.4 acre site and was built in 1966.
The building is currently undergoing
rehabilitation and no additional post-conversion rehabilitation is included as part of this item, except
elevator modernization planned to be included in a broader elevator package across CHA to be presented
to the Board later this year. Minnie Riperton Apartments, located at 4250 S. Princeton, is a 14-story
building designated as senior public housing and containing 339 units. The building is located on a 2.5
acre site and was built in 1969. The building is currently undergoing rehabilitation and no additional
post-conversion rehabilitation is included as part of this item except elevator modernization planned
across much of the CHA portfolio. Daniel Burnham Apartments, located at 1930 W. Loyola Avenue,
is a four-winged building with varying heights from 4 to 6 stories designated as senior public housing
and contains 181 units. The building is located on a 2.3 acre site and was built in 1982. The building
does not need immediate rehabilitation, so no post-conversion rehabilitation is included as part of this
item except elevator modernization planned across much of the CHA portfolio. Judge Fisher, located
at 5821 N. Broadway, is a 22-story building designated as senior public housing and contains 199 units.
The building is located on a small site and was built in 1964. The building is currently undergoing
rehabilitation, so no additional post-conversion rehabilitation is included as part of this item except
elevator modernization planned across much of the CHA portfolio. Judge Slater Apartments and
Annex, located at 740 E. 43rd Street and 4218 S. Cottage Grove, is two buildings -- the building located
at 740 E. 43rd Street is 16 stories and the Annex located at 4218 S. Cottage Grove is 9-stories – both
designated as senior housing and containing a total of 407 units. The buildings were built in 1966 (740
E. 43rd Street) and 1970 (4218 S. Cottage Grove). The buildings have been recently rehabilitated, so no
post-conversion rehabilitation is included as part of this item except elevator modernization planned
across much of the CHA portfolio. Lincoln Perry Apartments and Annex, located at 3245 S. Prairie
and 243 E. 32nd Street, is two 8-story buildings designated as senior housing and containing a total of
450 units. The buildings are located on a 1.65 acre site and were built in 1973 (3245 S. Prairie) and
1982 (243 E. 32nd Street). The buildings have been recently rehabilitated, so no post-conversion
rehabilitation is included as part of this item except elevator modernization planned across much of the
CHA portfolio. Caroline Hedger Apartments, located at 6400 N. Sheridan, is a 26-story building
8

 designated as senior housing and containing a total of 450 units. The building is located on a 1.5 acre
site and was built in 1972. The building is undergoing extensive rehabilitation and no additional postconversion rehabilitation is planned except elevator modernization planned across much of the CHA
portfolio. The CHA Board approved submission of a RAD Financing Plan and initial deposit of
$450,000 into a replacement reserve previously pursuant to Resolution No. 2016-CHA-10. Resolution
No. 2016-CHA-10 did not include in the initial replacement reserve amount funds for the elevator
modernization work now being proposed for this property. Capital Needs Assessments (CNAs) were
prepared for the Subject Properties to determine the capital needs of the properties over the 20-year
initial term of the proposed HAP contract. Capital improvements identified as initial needs are financed
at closing and are generally expected to be completed within the first two years’ post-conversion. The
CNA also identifies the amount of funding needed to capitalize a replacement reserve for each property,
which is intended to cover all identified capital needs associated with the CNA over the 20-year initial
HAP contract period. CHA does not plan to fund any rehab activity which is expected to be completed
within 12 months of conversion. CHA plans to fund replacement reserves for any prospective capital
repairs, elevator modernization work and transaction costs for the Subject Properties transitioning to
RAD.
WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION NO.2016-CHA-56
the Authority will submit Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Financing Plans to the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for Major Robert
Lawrence Apartments, Minnie Riperton Apartments, Daniel Burnham Apartments, Judge
Fisher Apartments, Judge Slater Apartments (including Annex), and Lincoln Perry
Apartments (and Annex) (Subject Properties); and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will enter into RAD Conversion Commitments with HUD for the Subject
Properties; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will execute Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contracts under HUD’s
RAD program for the Subject Properties and execute such other documents as may be
required under the RAD program for the financing and operations of the Subject
Properties; and

WHEREAS,

the Authority will transfer ownership of the improvements to the Seven Properties and
execute 99-year Ground Leases for the underlying land.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

Section 1. The Authority is authorized to submit Rental Assistance Demonstration
(RAD) Financing Plans to the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development in connection with the Subject Properties.
Section 2.

The Authority is authorized to enter into RAD Conversion Commitments
with HUD for the Subject Properties.

Section 3.

The Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to execute
Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contracts under the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) Rental
Assistance Demonstration program and execute such other documents as
may be required for the financing and operation of the Subject Properties.

9

 Section 4.

The Authority is authorized to commit CHA funds not to exceed
$33,700,000 to fund initial replacement reserve(s), elevator modernization
work and transaction costs for the Subject Properties and elevator
modernization work for Caroline Hedger Apartments.

Section 5.

The Authority is authorized to transfer ownership of the improvements to
the Seven Properties to Chicago Housing Administration LLC and execute
99-year Ground Leases for the underlying land.

Section 6.

The Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 8)
The resolution for Item 8 approves amendments to existing Housing Assistance Payments Contracts for
1) Deborah’s Place II Apartments for a 15-year term; 2) Evergreen Towers II Apartments for a 10-year
term; and with 3) Verity Investments, LLC for a 15-year term. Deborah’s Place II Apartments’ original
HAP Contract was executed on and effective as of June 7, 1995 for a 5-year term then renewed from
time to time. The current HAP Contract expired on April 30, 2016. Evergreen Towers II Apartments’
original HAP Contract was executed on and effective as of March 3, 2004 for a 5-year term then
renewed from time to time. The current HAP Contract expired on February 28, 2016. Verity
Investments, LLC, formerly Barnes Real Estate, LLC originally executed a HAP Contract effective as of
March 1, 2011 which expired on February 28, 2016. Deborah’s Place II Apartments, formally known as
Patty Crowley Apartments, is a four story, low rise elevator apartment building consisting of 39 studio
units located at 1530 N. Sedgewick Avenue in the Old Town community. Currently, Project Based
Voucher assistance is being provided to all 39 units. All of the units are subsidized supportive housing
for homeless women and women with disabilities through two residential programs. Evergreen Towers
II is an affordable housing, 100 unit apartment building for seniors 55 years and older located at 1343 N.
Cleveland. Currently, Project Based Voucher assistance is being provided to 8 one-bedroom units and 2
two- bedroom units; totaling 10 units. Verity Investments, LLC will provide 6 PRA units in six
scattered sites buildings located at 2349 S. Drake Avenue, 2921 S. Walnut Street, 1940 N. Keeler
Avenue, 2120 N. Campbell Avenue, 1113 N. Sacramento Avenue and 2328 S. Kedzie Avenue. CHA
will make referrals from the Public Housing and PRA waiting lists as well as individuals whose right of
return under the Relocation Rights Contract has not been satisfied. CHA’s waiting lists will be
exhausted prior to the utilization of a site-based waiting list.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-57
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 17, 2016 entitled: Authorization to approve an amendment of an existing
Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract for 1) Deborah’s Place II Apartments for a
15-year term; 2) Evergreen Towers II Apartments for a 10-year term; and with 3) Verity
Investments, LLC for a 15-year term.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to: 1)
execute an amendment to the existing Housing Assistance Payments Contract (HAP) for
Deborah’s Place II Apartments for a 15-year term; 2) Evergreen Towers II Apartments
for a 10-year term; and with 3) Verity Investments, LLC for a 15-year term.
10

 (Item 9)
An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was released in 2016 to solicit bids from qualified firms to provide
Surveillance Camera Equipment for augmentation of the camera network at Altgeld Gardens. A notice
was advertised in the Chicago Sun-Times and Chicago Defender. In addition to advertising, the IFB was
placed on the CHA Web Site. Notices were sent to 540 firms. A Pre-bid meeting was held at CHA on
March 18, 2016. Nine bids were received from nine respondents on the due date set for submission.
Based upon the responses to the IFB, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder to provide
surveillance Camera Equipment is SimplexGrinnell. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 9 approves
award of contract to SimplexGrinnell for the supply and delivery contract for camera surveillance
equipment for an amount not to exceed $155,800 as part of HUD’s Emergency Safety and Security
Program. The purpose of the Emergency Safety and Security Program is to address safety and security
emergencies that pose an increased threat to the health and safety of public housing residents. Grant
funds will be used to supplement the existing video surveillance camera network at Altgeld Gardens.
The enhanced digital camera system will allow CHA representatives to better zoom in on areas of
concern, cover blind spots and enter video files into evidence. Like existing cameras, video files and data
from these enhancements to the system can assist Chicago Police in investigations and criminal
prosecutions. The integrated access control system will ease identification of people entering CHA
properties.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016-CHA-58
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated May 17, 2016 entitled: “RECOMMENDATION TO EXECUTE A SUPPLY
AND DELIVERY CONTRACT FOR SURVEILLANCE CAMERA EQUIPMENT”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute a supply and delivery contract for surveillance camera equipment with
SimplexGrinnell LP in an amount not to exceed amount of $155,800.00.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/
Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 was seconded by Commissioner
Washington and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico (abstained from voting on Item 5 only)
Mark Cozzi (abstained from voting on Item 6 only)
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
11

 Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the Commissioners.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
At the conclusion of public testimony, upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly seconded
by Commissioner Washington, the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately 30 minutes to discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 12:40 p.m.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bridget Reidy

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon motion made by Commissioner Markowski and properly seconded by Commissioner Washington,
the open and closed minutes for meetings of March 25 and April 19 and the Special Board meeting
minutes of March 31, 2016 were approved as submitted.
Chairman Hooker then announced that during closed session, Commissioners discussed matters related
to Item10, Personnel Actions.
Commissioner Washington then presented a Motion for the approval of Item 10.
(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 recommends the approval and ratification of the following personnel actions:
Offer of employment to 10 applicants; promotion of two current employees and termination of one
employee.
RESOLUTION NO. 2016–CHA-59
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 17, 2016, entitled
“Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

12

 The Motion to adopt the resolution for Item10 was seconded by Commissioner Cozzi and the voting was
as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Mark Cozzi
Dr. Mildred Harris
John Hooker
Jack Markowski
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and seconded,
the Regular board meeting of May 17, 2016, was adjourned at approximately 12:45 p.m.

________________________________
John Hooker, Chairman
Chicago Housing Authority

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

13

 