APPROVED MEETING MINUTES
Home Health, Home Services and Home Nursing Advisory Board Meeting
January 9, 2019 - 10:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m.
Video conference locations:
525 W. Jefferson, 4th Floor, Springfield
122 S. Michigan Ave, 7th Floor, Room 711, Chicago
#22 Kettle Drive, Edwardsville
2309 W. Main St., Marion
Bellwood Location not available
Call to Order
Members Present: Chair, Teresa Garcia-Fitzgerald, Sheila McMackin, Michael Melinger, Jack
Kreger, Linnea Windel, Aishling Dalton Kelly, Rowena Oliva, Jeffrey Workman, Tina Moore
and Shawna O’Dell
Members Absent: Pamela Duffy and Cathleen Carlson
Department Staff: Siji Varghese, Karen Senger, Elaine Huddleston, Jack Fleeharty and Kendra
Fabish
Guests: Amanda Shoemaker, Liz Vogt and Sara Ratcliffe,
Introduction of Committee Members and Guests
Teresa Garcia-Fitzgerald, chair called the meeting to order at 10 35 am with an introduction of
Board members and guests. A quorum was established at this time.
Approval of Draft Minutes for October 11, 2018 Board Meeting
The Draft minutes of the October 11, 2018 meeting was presented to the Board for their review
and comments. A motion was made to approve the minutes, 2nd and unanimously approved as
presented.
OLD BUSINESS
Regulations Update
Karen Senger covered the status of the following Regulations updates to the Board:
1) Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Services Code – regulations were
published for first comment period; 45-day comment period closed December 17th
and 2nd notice will be sent to JCAR for review and approval.

 2) Health Care Worker Background Check Code 955 - rules are at 2nd comment and
notice will be presented to JCAR at their January 15th meeting.

3) Home Health, Home Services and Home Nursing Code 245 – rules were voted on
last fall, 2018 and pending filing for 1st notice; will email the Board when comes out
for public comment.
No further comments or questions were made.
NEW BUSINESS
Home Health Agency Pre-claim Choice
Karen Senger presented this topic to the Board. Board members were given a handout on Review
Choice Demonstration for Home Health Services that presented Medicare options for Pre-claim
Choice review. If anyone had any questions or concerns to this process to reach out to Palmetto
GBA or by email at hhrcd@cmshhs.gov.
Sara Ratcliffe of IL Home Care Council commented that the Pre-Claim Choice review period has
not started yet as there was a delay with Palmetto, and do not know currently when this will be
opened up to providers.
Karen Senger commented Palmetto will reach out to providers by USPS, and facilities will
receive a letter when eligible to move on to use the Pre-claim Choice service. The provider will
then be able to choose from which category they are eligible for.
No further comments or questions were made.
Home Health Agency Initial Application Report
Karen Senger presented this information to the Board that covered the status of Home Health Agency
Initial applications for 2018, number of HHA licensed only and licensed/certified by each quarter as of
January 1, 2018. There has been a decreased in the number of Initial applications over the years with an
increase in number of Change of Ownership (CHOW) applications from 2010 to 2018 for the Board to
review.
There has been four (4) Home Health Agency Initial application for 2018 due mostly because of the
Moratoria with 33 Agency CHOW applications, which identify the biggest factor. There has been a
decrease in the Home Health Agency industry due to a lot of closures, licenses waiting for Medicare
Certification and Medicare Certification not being able to maintain licensure due to lack of business or
clients.
A brief discussion was made on the number of agencies that have decreased from ten (10) years ago back
in 2008, when the numbers would have been up in the 600+. The industry was over saturated with
Medicare Certified Agencies, and how the industry is more legitimized now.
No further comments were made to this report.

Home Services, Home Nursing, Home Services Placement and Home
Nursing Placement Applications Received and Licensed Report

 Karen Senger presented this information to the Board that covered the status of Home Services/Home
Nursing/Placement (HS/HN/HSP/HNP) Initial applications, number of licensed applications by each
quarter ranging from the 2015 through December 28, 2018 for Board review. This section is becoming a
growing program with a high volume of Home Services applications. The number of providers between
2017 and 2018 has declined some and Home Nursing has stayed the same with Home Services Placement
not seeing a large growth in that area.
The application to licensure process is challenging from the initial application phase to being ready for
survey. Applicants seem to not provide a notice when ready for survey, or they decide to not go through
the application process. Karen Senger commented that the survey process has changed over the years due to
new surveyors and increased experience in implementing the program and survey process.
Section Supervisor, Jack Fleeharty gave a brief report on the status of HS/HN application on that there was
18 initial applications awaiting for their letter of readiness (LOR), 7 applications in queue ready for survey
and 5-6 pending review.
Karen Senger commented that the goal for the next Board meeting will be to present at least a six (6) month
analysis status report for Home Service for review. The Department is seeing an increase in background
checks as this being a common area of documented violations.
Board Members commented that the Department could make this a mandatory training on the HCWR
training site as a mandatory training for Supervisors to complete as a requirement when beginning initial
application for licensure. Karen Senger commented that this will need to be mandated in the Rules and that
a flat fine is charged to all provider types that do not complete a Worker Background History check.
Karen Senger commented will try and look at the last several years on how many violations have been
written and number of fines have charged for this violation and bring back to the next Board meeting.
No comments were made to this report.

OASIS Training Updates
Siji Varghese commented on the new version of OASIS D that will be implemented January 31, 2019, will
be covered in the October training. There will be a Question & Answer session planned for the new training
to be held in March, 2019. Future trainings will be posted on the IDPH Calendar and Website that will
cover the latest updates in OASIS. This latest OASIS Training is scheduled for October 23 – 24th at 160 N.
LaSalle Room 500 in Chicago.
The training information and announcement will be posted on the IDPH Calendar of Events and the IDPHHHA Website with more details. Siji Varghese reminded the Board that space is limited and registration is
required. The public is encouraged to contact Carol Phillips of the Department to register for this training.
Space is limited to two persons per facility and Board members were encouraged to spread the word and to
contact Siji for any further questions.
No further comments were made to this report.

Board Membership Updates
Karen Senger presented this information on the status of membership(s) and vacancies on the Board.
1. Membership vacancies – three (3) vacancies:
a. One (1) General Public/Consumer Advocate vacated by Lori Hendren (Resigned
10/18/2017); pending appointment/approval of nominee from the Director’s Office.
b. One (1) Licensed Physician position vacant since 2014; nominee none
c. One (1) General Public/Consumer/Family Member Home Service vacated by Michele
Running (Term expired 1/6/2018); nominee none

 2.

New Memberships – none at this time

Karen Senger asked Board members to submit any recommendations to the Department for nominations to
help with reaching a full Board membership to meet a quorum in order to conduct meetings.
3.

Reappointments for 2019 – four (4) terms expires in August of 2019

Chair, Teresa Fitzgerald asked if there were any members that were approaching their three (3) year term
membership. Karen Senger commented that Board memberships are three (3) year terms with no more than
three (3) consecutive years served. She will check with the Boards bylaws to verify the exact number of
terms a Board membership can serve. Several Board members positions were changed at the last time their
membership came up for reappointment to better meet the criteria of the positions they represented;
therefore, their membership term started over.

Travel Voucher
Board Members were provided a blank travel voucher-mileage expense form (effective: 01/2019). Board
members were reminded to complete the current mileage reimbursement form as the mileage rate has
changed to $0.58 cents per miles effective January 2019. Board Members were instructed to submit their
completed travel expense forms to IDPH, staff employee Elaine Huddleston for processing. In addition, for
new members completing a travel expense form for the first time will need to compete a W-9 form per
request from the Comptroller’s Office to enter their information in the data system.

2019 HHA Board Meeting Schedule
Members were given a copy of the meeting schedule for 2019. The Department is currently working on
scheduling these dates, times, and meeting locations for next year. There is at least five (5) meeting
locations for members to choose from to attend these meetings. The Department will work on putting these
meeting dates and times out on the Outlook Calendar for 2019, and members were asked to mark their
calendars accordingly and plan to attend.

2020 Future HHA Board Meeting Schedule
Members were given a copy of the tentative meeting schedule for 2020 for Board Review. The Department
is currently working on scheduling these dates, times, and meeting locations for next year (2020). There is
at least five (5) meeting locations for members to choose from to attend these meeting members were asked
to mark their calendars accordingly and plan to attend.
Other Discussion
Members were asked if there were any other Agenda Items for discussion.
Board member Sheila McMackin commented that the Board had previously started a conversation about
defining Home Nursing. There is a lot of confusing definition on Home Nursing License and the revised
Nursing Practice Act will impact the Home Nursing License market. A question was raised by the Board
that they will need outside assistance to look at other organizations and how they are handling this topic
and to address the basic definition, redefine or change definition of Home Nursing.
Chair, Theresa Fitzgerald recommend forming a Task Force group to assist with this project. Karen Senger
commented that can address this topic at the April meeting to formulate a Sub Group to work along with
outside members on concerns and goals of this group. Members were asked to bring questions and
concerns for discussion to the next meeting.

 Jack Fleeharty requested that at the next meeting to go over the IDFR – Nursing Rules. Karen Senger
commented that IDPR working on changes to the Nurse Practice Act and working on other Rule changes
for 1st notice for public comment.
Next meeting dates:
a.

April 10, 2019 ● 10:30 am (122 S. Michigan Avenue, 7th Floor, Room 711 in Chicago, 525 W.
Jefferson Street, 4th Floor in Springfield, #22 Kettle River Drive, Edwardsville, and 2309 W. Main
Street in Marion). The Bellwood location is not available for this meeting.

b.

July 10, 2019 ● 10:30 a.m. (122 S. Michigan Avenue, 7th Floor, Room 711 in Chicago, 525 W.
Jefferson Street, 4th Floor in Springfield, #22 Kettle River Drive, Edwardsville, and 2309 W. Main
Street in Marion and 4212 St. Charles Road, Bellwood)

Meeting adjourned at 11:36 p.m.

 