MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
February 17, 2015
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, February 17, 2015, at approximately 8:40 a.m. at the Charles Hayes
Family Investment Center located at 4859 S. Wabash in Chicago, IL.
Chairperson Z. Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:

Mark Cozzi

Also present were Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Ammarell, Chief Legal
Officer; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Upon Motion made by Chairwoman Scott and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris, the
Commissioners adjourned to Executive Session. Chairwoman Scott announced that pursuant to
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one hour to
discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate property; security
procedures; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and
audit reviews.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session at approximately 11:05 a.m.
Chairwoman Scott called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Absent:
Mark Cozzi
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
After Motion made by Commissioner Brewer and properly seconded by Commissioner Johnson
the Minutes for the Regular and Closed meetings of January 20, 2015 were unanimously
approved as submitted.
Committee Chair, Dr. Mildred Harris, then presented the report of the Tenant Services
committee. Per Commissioner Harris, the Tenant Services Committee held its regularly
scheduled meeting on Wednesday, February 11, at approximately 1:00 p.m. at the CHA’s

1

 Corporate Offices, 12th Floor Loft. In addition to Commissioner Harris, the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer, Johnson, Sierra and Washington.
Committee members then discussed, voted, and recommended for approval the resolution for
Item 1.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Commissioner Harris then presented a Motion for
approval of Item 1.
(Item 1)
In accordance with the Admissions and Continued Occupancy Policy (ACOP) for Public
Housing and the Housing Choice Voucher Administrative Plan, CHA operates a number of
demonstration programs and special initiatives that provide subsidized housing for a special
population of people in need. The Match Unit Mobility Counseling Demonstration Program will
allow up to 218 individuals from the Public Housing Wait List (as of December 16, 2014) to
self-select to receive a housing choice voucher to move to an Opportunity or General Area.
Participants will receive mobility counseling to aid in the selection of a unit and post move
services for up to two years. Individuals who are uninterested in moving to the defined areas
will be returned to the public housing wait list. This demonstration program will provide a match
to those units being rehabbed at Altgeld Gardens up to 218 over four years or longer if the
development process is limited or interrupted. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 1 approves
the Match Unit Mobility Counseling Demonstration Program under the Demonstration/Pilot
Program process established and approved by the Board of Commissioners in August 2014.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA -11
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2015
entitled
“AUTHORIZATION
TO
APPROVE
ONE
DEMONSTRATION/PILOT PROGRAM”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to approve the Match Unit Mobility Counseling Demonstration Program,
as described in the “Chicago Housing Authority Demonstration Program and
Special Initiatives Overview” document attached hereto.

2

 The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 1 was seconded by Commissioner Markowski and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Commissioner Jack Markowski then presented the report for the Operations and Facilities
Committee. Per Commissioner Markowski, the Operations and Facilities committee met on
Wednesday, February 11, 2015 at the CHA Corporate Offices, 12 fl. Loft. Committee members
reviewed, discussed and voted on the items appearing on the committee agenda.
On behalf of the Operations & Facilities Committee, Commissioner Markowski then presented
an Omnibus Motion for the approval of Items 2 through 4.
(Item 2)
In March 2013, the Board of Commissioners approved a contract award to Constellation
NewEnergy-Gas Division for the supply and delivery of natural gas to various CHA residential
sites and facilities for a base period of two years for a not-to-exceed compensation amount of
$11,800,000, with three one-year extension options reserved to the CHA. The base term of
contract is due to expire on March 31, 2015. The Natural Gas Supply and Delivery Agreement
offers CHA the opportunity to purchase its gas needs at wholesale instead of retail, and enables
the CHA to hedge against potential market price fluctuations through the use of multi-tiered
price/risk management options. An extension of the agreement would allow the CHA to
continue to purchase natural gas supplies from non-utility sources and thereby reduce the CHA’s
overall gas costs. The Department of Housing and Urban Development has historically
encouraged and offered incentives to housing authorities that purchase their natural gas supplies
at wholesale (wellhead) rates that are less than what the local gas utility would ordinarily charge
to retail gas customers. It is critical that the CHA continue to reduce its energy costs through gas
purchases made under the wellhead program. This contract provides the supply and delivery of
natural gas to all CHA family, senior and scattered site properties in the CHA traditional public
housing portfolio. The CHA continues to use People’s Gas for the distribution of natural gas
from the wholesale distribution point known as the Chicago “Citygate” to actual CHA buildings;
this local distribution cost is not included within the scope or budget of this contract. In recent
years the decreases in the CHA’s natural gas consumption and costs were primarily due to
price/risk management strategies, building consolidations and closures, and energy-efficient
retrofits. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 2 approves the first one-year option with
Constellation NewEnergy Gas Division, LLC, not-to-exceed $6,496,740 for the supply and
delivery of Natural Gas to various CHA residential sites and facilities.
Commissioner Reidy recused from voting on Item 2 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-12
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated February 11, 2015 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO
EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION WITH CONSTELLATION
NEWENERGY-GAS DIVISION, LLC FOR THE SUPPLY AND DELIVERY
OF NATURAL GAS TO VARIOUS CHA RESIDENTIAL SITES AND
FACILITIES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

3

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute an amendment extending Contract #11228 with Constellation
NewEnergy-Gas Division, LLC to purchase natural gas supplies for the period of
April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2016, and increasing the total not-to-exceed
compensation under Contract #11228 by $6,496,740, resulting in the new total
not-to-exceed compensation amount of $18,296,740.

(Item 3)
The resolution for Item 3 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of
Chicago’s Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities (MOPD) to administer the CHA’s
Accessibility Modification Fund, in the amount of $92,000.00 for the first year with the option to
extend the IGA for four additional years for the amount of $92,000.00 each year at the discretion
of the Chief Executive Officer subject to funding availability and satisfactory contract
performance. The aggregate total for the IGA for the one-year base term and four, one- year
options will be $460,000.00. In 1999, CHA created a Modification Fund, which consists of a
pool of money set-aside for the construction and installation of accessibility features and devices
like grab bars, lifts, ramps, and sensory equipment, for HCV participants who need such features
to utilize their vouchers in the private market. In order to successfully implement such a
program, CHA sought to find an entity that possessed expert knowledge in accessibility
modifications and employed staff that was capable of overseeing on-site modification work in
private units throughout the City of Chicago. Additionally, the entity had to be able to: develop
a methodology to administer the Mod Fund; intake and analyze accessibility applications;
perform a physical assessment of the proposed unit/building to undergo modification;
subcontract with construction firms to provide the actual modifications; subcontract with
companies to provide accessibility supplies; and provide on-site quality control. The Housing
Rights and Nondiscrimination Department found that MOPD, a governmental organization
created solely to assist persons with disabilities, is capable of providing all the necessary services
with the required degree of skill and knowledge with the benefit of no administration fee to
CHA. MOPD’s HomeMod program is a fit with the goals the CHA seeks to establish with its
Mod Fund. MOPD has its own staff to administer the HomeMod program. The program is
funded by public grants and private donations. The types of modifications made under the
HomeMod program include kitchen and bathroom modifications and the addition of interior and
exterior lifts and ramps. MOPD has its own eligibility requirements; however, they have agreed
to implement CHA’s eligibility requirements on the funding provided by CHA for its Mod Fund.
As a federally funded program, MOPD must abide by all federal rules and regulations.
Furthermore, MOPD has agreed to provide the aforementioned services at no administrative cost
to CHA.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-13
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated February 11, 2015 entitled: “Authorization to Enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Mayor’s Office for People with
Disabilities for the Administration of CHA’s Modification Fund;”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into an IGA with MOPD in the amount of $92,000.00 for the
first year with the option to extend the IGA for four additional years for the
amount of $92,000.00 each year at the discretion of the CEO or his designee
subject to funding availability and satisfactory contract performance. The
aggregate total for the IGA for the one-year base term and four one- year options
will be $460,000.00.

(Item 4)
An Invitation for Bid (IFB) was released in November 2014 for envelope, life safety and
mechanical systems upgrade at Judge Fisher Apartments. The IFB was advertised in area
newspapers, CHA website and BuySpeed. Of the four bids received, Madison Construction
Company was the lowest responsible bidder. The scope of work for this project consists of
renovation of common areas finishes, new heat pump/ac in each unit, new security system and
fire alarm, fully sprinklered building, removal of a/c unit in each unit and replace with glazing,
and new air unit for common corridors. The Life Safety Program is the CHA’s ongoing

4

 commitment to having all of our high-rise buildings compliant with the city of Chicago’s HighRise Safety Code. The City of Chicago Code requires fully sprinklered life safety building
systems to be code compliant by January 1, 2017. Accordingly, the resolution for Item 4
approves award of contract to Madison Construction Company in the firm fixed amount of
$10,537,000 plus a not to exceed amount of $632,220 in contingency strictly limited to potential
change orders justified as a discovered conditions, historic preservation compliance or code
compliance issues for a total amount not to exceed $11,169,220. The Scope of Work is to be
completed within 540 calendar days of the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed. Judge Fisher
Apartments is located at: 5821 N. Broadway, Chicago, IL.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-CHA-14
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2015 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH
MADISON CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR ENVELOPE, LIFE SAFETY
AND MECHANICAL SYSTEMS AT JUDGE FISHER APARTMENTS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Madison Construction Company for the
envelope, life safety and mechanical systems at Judge Fisher Apartments in the
firm fixed amount of $10,537,000 plus a not to exceed amount of $632,220 in
contingency (6%, which is in line with industry standards) strictly limited to
potential change orders justified as a discovered conditions, or code compliance
issues for a total amount not to exceed $11,169,220. The Scope of Work is to be
completed within five hundred forty (540) calendar days of the date set forth in
the Notice to Proceed. Judge Fisher Apartments is located at: 5821 N. Broadway,
Chicago, IL.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3, and bonding and insurance requirements.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 2, 3 and 4 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Recusal:

Bridget Reidy (on Item 2 only)

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolutions adopted.
In the absence of Committee Chair Mark Cozzi, Commissioner Matthew Brewer presented the
Finance & Personnel Committee.
Per Commissioner Brewer, the Finance and Personnel
Committee met on Wednesday, February 11, 2015 at approximately 2:00 p.m. and adjourned to
closed session to discuss Item 5 - Personnel Actions. Committee members then returned to Open
Session and approved Item 5. Item 5 was also discussed in Closed Session today.
On behalf of the Finance & Personnel Committee, Commissioner Brewer presented a Motion for
the approval of Item 5.
(Item 5)
RESOLUTION NO. 2015–CHA-15
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated February 11,
2015, entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:

5

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt resolution for Item 5 was seconded by Commissioner Johnson and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Dr. Mildred Harris
Harriet Johnson
Jack Markowski
Z. Scott
Bridget Reidy
Rodrigo Sierra
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairwoman Scott thereupon declared said Motion
carried and said resolution adopted.
Chairwoman Scott then announced that based on discussion in Closed Meeting, Item 6:
Ratification of the Altgeld Memorandum of Agreement was withdrawn from the agenda so that
staff could make administrative and technical changes to the documents. Per Chairwoman Scott
this item would be placed on the March 17, 2015 Board meeting roster for approval.
Michael Merchant, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report to the
Commissioners.
Chairwoman Scott then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made and
seconded, the Regular board meeting of February 17, 2015, was adjourned at approximately
11:45 a.m.

________________________________
Z. Scott
Chairwoman, Chicago Housing Authority
___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

6

 