Chicago Housing Authority
Board of Commissioners Public Session
Meeting of June 19, 2007
Lincoln Perry Apartments, 3245 S. Prairie, Chicago, IL
Residents
Name/Property/

Question/Comment

1.

Hank Brown

CHA has done an inadequate job of explaining
rent situation. Response received is a repetition
of what has been said all along and not a
clarification of issues. How did CHA arrive at the
figures for market, affordable and public housing
rates?

2.

Donna Underwood

Has not received reimbursement of $2,400 for
relocation expenses incurred since December
2006.

3.

Beatrice Harris

4.

Deverra Beverly

5.

Jack Simmons

Invited Commissioners and public to celebrate
Wentworth’s Garden’s 60th birthday on Friday.
Acknowledged Commissioner Ivers for providing
assistance and volunteers for assisting and
supporting ABLA community and residents.
No access to building from east parking lot.
Consideration should be given to access
especially for disabled residents.

6.

Cheryl Johnson

It’s been over18 months since the Altgeld Working
Group have met with the residents. Is there a
scheduled date for the next meeting? Requesting
space to accommodate youth program that she
coordinates. What is the process for Altgeld
community to receive additional resources for
resident programs?

7.

Ms. Wesley

Welcome Commissioners to Lincoln Perry
Apartments.

Status
CHAC, Inc. conducted a rental study in early 2004 that collected
rental data from late 2003 and early 2004. CHAC, Inc, revised
the proposed rent range maximums listed in the rental study and
published an initial summary of maximum gross rent ranges for
1-4 bedroom units by community area on March 4, 2004. From
this document, an August 30, 2004 Gross Rent Maximum
Schedule for A, B, and C units was created after CHAC, Inc.
staff adjusted the rents to updated 2004 levels. The CHA used
these A, B, and C rent schedules to set the flat rent for 1-4
bedroom units.
The CHA’s Legal Department has been in touch with Ms.
Underwood. She has been provided with a letter that states
the CHA is not responsible for rental payments or
reimbursement for costs incurred during her stay at 1040 W.
Washington. The CHA at this time considers this matter
closed.
Comments Noted
Comments Noted

The east entrance of the building is a "service entrance".
This building exit is used for refuse removal and other deliveries
and services. To make this accessible would be a security issue
for residents. All other entrances are ADA accessible.
The Altgeld working group was put in place to assist with the
planning and renovation of Altgeld Gardens. This planning has
been finalized hence, no more working group meetings.
The process to request space and additional resources should
be submitted in writing to Mr. Duwain Bailey at the Chicago
Housing Authority providing a thorough justification of the need
for additional services and proof that they are not being
provided at this time.
Comments Noted.

 