AGENDA

STAFF REPORT 6-26-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6255
ADDRESS: 671 EDISON
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON - EDISON
APPLICANT: KEITH ZENDLER
DATE OF STAFF VISIT: 06-21-2019

PREPARED BY: B. CAGNEY

PROPOSAL
The building at 671 Edison Street is a brick, 2.5-story, 20th Century Composite style, single-family home.
The home features many character-defining architectural elements including a red clay tile roof, a
detailed neo-classical portico, quoin corners, leaded glass details in the front windows and limestone
window sills. 671 Edison has a symmetrical façade with the portico at the center axis, flanked on both
sides by matching sets of three windows on the first and second floors. Two dormers are mirrored at the
center axis of the hipped roof and twin chimneys projecting past the roof on both east and west facades.
The concrete hardscaping at the front porch of the house has decayed significantly throughout the
years. The concrete wingwalls extending from the porch down both sides of the walkway, including
the caps and the planters are all in a state of disrepair. The applicant would like to replace the
porch and walkway with new concrete. The applicant has also proposed to rebuild the concrete
“columns” that extend down the steps with red brick to match the existing brick home as “best
possible”. The proposed “columns” would be capped with limestone as a gesture to the limestone
window sills that are present around the house. The landscape planters will also be replaced.
Additionally, with this application, the applicant proposes to do tuck pointing maintenance on the
existing brick on the rear porch wing wall as well as on the wall left of the front porch. The applicant
also seeks to replace the dying arborvitae and “upgrade flowers/landscaping.”
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval to complete the following
work associated with the overall rehabilitation of the building as per the following project description:
Porch Rebuild
• Demo porch walls, raise existing concrete cap with jack and support while disposing of debris
• Clean and prep area for new brick
• Relay Brick to match existing brick on home (best possible)
• Build and interior course with either brick or CMU.
• Build brick “columns” (2)
o Build out brick courses 4-1/2” offset from porch
• Install limestone cap Approx. 2’ x 40”
• Apply water sealant – “chimney saver sealer”
Concrete Porch Cap
• Demo existing 11’x 7’ porch cap
o Set forms and pour new 4” porch cap, Rebar or pin into house as needed
• Pull forms the following day
• 4000 psi concrete.

 •
•
•

Broom finish unless noted otherwise
Saw cut concrete slab if needed
Seal concrete upon completion

Concrete Front Walkway
• Removal of existing concrete
• Check grades, re-pitch as needed
• Lay crushed concrete 21aa as needed
• Pour new concrete walk from Porch to sidewalk to original design total 110sq'
• Broom finish
• Pull forms the following day, saw cut
• Seal all concrete
Miscellaneous Repairs
• Tuckpoint Back Porch wing wall
• Tuck point Front wall left of porch near bottom
• Replace Dying Arborvitae and upgrade flowers/landscaping

ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical treatment of
individual properties is a flat or graded front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a straight or
curving walk leading to the front entrance. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, stone, or
combinations of those materials. Some front yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces upon
which the house stands. These unpaved terraces have sloping embankments or retaining walls which
are made of brick, stone, or both, at the change of grade. Foundation plantings, often of a deciduous
character, characteristic of the period 1900-1930, are present virtually without exception. Hedges
between properties and along front property lines are not uncommon. It is characteristic for corner lots
to have hedges or fencing at side lot lines along the sidewalk. There is a wide range in the type of
fencing. Fencing within the public view was generally designed to compliment the style, design
material, and date of the residence. Although the American elm was once the dominant tree, it is
virtually extinct in the district. Replacement trees should be characteristic of the area and period.
Plantings of new trees should be directed to "tree lawns" and medians. If American elm is planted, it
should be disease resistant. Straight side driveways leading from the street to rear garages are the norm,
although access to garages is also off the alley, especially in areas of the district that were developed
earlier. On corner lots, garages and driveways often face the side streets. These driveways are paved in
asphalt, concrete, or brick. Side lots are not uncommon for the larger properties in the district, and a
number of these form a part of the original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually
landscaped and are often fenced at or near the setback line. The width of tree lawns varies from block to
block. Street pavements are now asphalt. Cut stone curbs still exist in areas of the district where they
have not yet been replaced with concrete, primarily east of the John C. Lodge freeway. Public
sidewalks are concrete. Some tree lawns/berms have been covered with concrete in parts of the district,
which may represent encroachment on city property. The resulting wide sidewalks are not appropriate
in the district. The ample one hundred and twenty-five (125) foot street right-of-ways of west boston
boulevard and Chicago boulevard are ample, and each have two (2) narrow pavements divided by the
large graded grassy median strips which are planted with evergreens and deciduous trees. The other
east-west streets, Longfellow street and Edison Boulevard, are sixty-six (66) feet wide. The Detroit

 Lighting Commission's ornamental poles ("o.p.") with cast iron bases (pattern #10 and cast iron panel
pattern #16a) and wooden shafts are placed at regular intervals primarily on the medians on boston
boulevard and Chicago boulevard, and on the tree lawns on other east-west streets. Lighting on the
north-south side streets consists of steel poles, some of which are fluted, with either ornate pendants or
simple cranes. There are historic upright poles along the periphery of Voight park. Concrete and brick
entrance piers exist at woodward avenue and Longfellow Street. Alleys run east-west down the center
of the blocks, with the exception of the north-south alleys behind the Woodward Avenue frontage.

STAFF OBSERVATIONS:
While the applicant has proposed a change in material for the porch and “columns,” this alteration from concrete
to brick does not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. Wing walls of brick construction can be
found on the two homes immediately east of 671 Edison, while the two homes immediately west of 671 have
concrete wing walls (Google streetview images included at the end this report).

RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s recommendation that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the proposed work
based on the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation Number 9) New additions, exterior
alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The
new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size scale
and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.
...With the condition that The installation of concrete hardscape within local historic districts under the
condition that it is not“bright white.” Specifically, such concrete must be composed of an exposed aggregate,
tinted grey, or finished with a clear or tinted grey curing compound.

 REPORT

 

 

 

1971 Historic Designation Photo? Front Elevation

REPORT

 

REPORT

671 Edison, Applicant Photo- Front Elevation

671 Edison, Applicant Photo- Front Elevation

 REPORT

 

671 Edison, Applicant Photo? Rear

 

671 Edison, Applicant Photo? Porch Detail

REPORT

671 Edison, Applicant Photo- Porch Current

671 Edison, Applicant Photo- Porch Proposed Rendering

  

671 Edison, Applicant Photo? Porch Proposed Rendgfing

REPORT

Homes immediately east of 671 Edison with brick wingwalls - Google Street View Image, 2018

Homes immediately west of 671 Edison with concrete wingwalls - Google Street View Image, 2018

 REPORT

Historic District Commission
Project Review Responses
Keith Zendler
671 Edison Street
Detroit, Michigan 48202
The Porch/Front Walkway Renovation Project
I’ve lived at 671 Edison in Boston-Edison District for 15 years. In that
time, I’ve invested a lot of fixing and restoring to the inside of the house.
Unfortunately, the front outside concrete work has decayed dramatically
as you can see from the photos and just two weeks ago, one of the main
planters fell apart by itself. I’d been thinking for a while that the
foundations under the planters needed to be rebuilt back to brick work
as you can see in the proposed photos (the consensus in the
neighborhood is that the prior owner just slapped up concrete which has
crumbled year by year). I’ve tried to repair it but it’s no longer
salvageable.
So, I want to invest over $11k (see attached Brickworks estimate) + new
planters to have the whole porch deck re-poured, have the planter
columns done in house-matching brick with limestone caps (matching
the motifs and themes around the house) and also replace the whole
walkway (which is also crumbling). This will match the designs that are
already there (see photo of example of brickwork column). I’m a stickler
for historic authenticity so it should look great (I was an HBEA President

 REPORT

for a year and on the board for several more so I’m supportive of making
the neighborhood look and be its best).
I’ll also refresh the landscaping as the bushes and flowers are from
before me and have been dying.
Detailed Project Description
Porch Rebuild
• Demo porch walls, jack support the cap and dispose of all debris 7
course x26
• Clean and prep area for new brick
• Relay Brick to match existing brick on home (best possible)
• Build and interior course with either brick or CMU.
• Build 2 columns 7. Course x 8 with a 4 1/2” offset from porch
• Install limestone cap Approx. 2’ x 40”
• Seal with chimney saver sealer
Concrete Porch Cap
• Demo existing porch cap 11’x 7’ -Set forms and pour new porch
cap 4” -Rebar or pin into house as needed
• Pull forms the following day
• 4000 psi concrete.
• Broom finish unless noted otherwise
• Saw cut slabs of need
• Seal concrete upon completion
Concrete Front Walkway
• Removal of existing concrete
• Check grades, re-pitch as needed
• Lay crushed concrete 21aa as needed
• Pour new concrete walk from Porch to sidewalk to original design
total 110sq'
• Broom finish
• Pull forms the following day, saw cut
• Seal all concrete
Miscellaneous Repairs
• Tuckpoint Back Porch wing wall
• Tuck point Front wall left of porch near bottom
• Replace Dying Arborvitae and upgrade flowers/landscaping

 REPORT
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATE DATE
SCHEDULED DATE

#31013508651
Apr 27, 2019
Sat Apr 27, 2019
1:00pm

Brickworks Property Restoration

TOTAL

Keith Zendler

CONTACT US

671 Edison St

35122 Cordelia

Detroit, MI 48202

Clinton Twp, MI 48035

$11,140.00

(586) 868-3234

(248) 379-7979

info@brickworksmi.com

keith@recyclemax.com

ESTIMATE
Services

qty

unit price

amount

Porch Rebuild

1.0

$5,940.00

$5,940.00

1.0

$4,200.00

$4,200.00

1.0

$1,000.00

$1,000.00

Demo porch walls, jack support the cap and and dispose of all debris
7 course x26
Clean and prep area for new brick
Relay Brick “brickmatch to be approved by home owner” to match existing brick on home (Best possible)
Build and interior course with either brick or CMU.
Build 2 columns 7. Course x 8 with a 4 1/2” offset from porch
Install limestone cap approx 2’ x 40”
Seal with chimney saver sealer
***Do not use ice melters or salt of any kind, will ruin.
Custom Services - Concrete Porch Cap/Walkway
-Demo existing porch cap 11’x 7’
-Set forms and pour new porch cap 4”
-Rebar or pin into house as needed
-Pull forms the following day
-4000 psi concrete.
-Broom finish unless noted otherwise
-Saw cut slabs of need
-Seal concrete upon completion
Custom Services - Concrete
-Removal of existing concrete
-Check grades, re-pitch as needed
-Lay crushed concrete 21aa as needed
-Pour new concrete walk from Porch to sidewalk to original design total 110sq'
-Broom finish
-Pull forms the following day, saw cut
-Seal all concrete ***Do NOT for any reason use ice melter or salt, will destroy all concrete
***if not doing the porch cap this is $3,200
Restoration - Tuckpoint Misc.
-Tuckpoint Back Porch wing wall
- Tuck point Front wall left of porch near bottom

Subtotal
Total

Brickworks Property Restoration 2102197636

https://www.chimneyrepairdetroitmi.com/

$11,140.00

$11,140.00

1 of 1

 