May 9, 2012 ITEM NO. Cl

RECOMMENDATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH AFTER SCHOOL
MATTERS TO PROVIDE PRE-APPRENTICESHIP AND APPRENTICESHIP YOUTH
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS FOR CHA YOUTH

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:

REC MMENDATI 
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer or his designee to enter into a contract with After School Matters to provide
pre?apprenticeship and apprenticeship youth employment programs for a total of 315 CHA youth
ages 14-18 for the period ofJune 1, 2012 through May 31, 2013 for a total amount not-to-exceed
$330,000.


General Fund
Vendor: After School Matters
Address: 78 W. Washington

Chicago, IL 60602

Contract Type: Professional Services
Contract Amount: $330,000
Contract Term: June 1, 2012 through May 31, 2013

Participatign (grin! al Modi?cation]:
MBE 

Waiver: Pending 
i Hiring (S) Subcontracting Other Economic Opportunities

EXPLANATI 

Resident Services is seeking approval to enter into a contract with A?er School Matters (ASM)
to fund after school and out-of-school time programs for a total of 315 public housing and HCV
youth ages 14-18 during the summer and fall sessions of 2012 and the spring session of 2013.
The goals of ASM are aligned with corporate strategy, including creating healthy and
strong communities and helping families maximize their potential. This programming is
essential to youth by not only providing safe year round out-of-school and after school
opportunities, but also providing transferrable social, academic and employment skills.

After School Matters Fromm Model
The ASM program model is designed to provide Chicago teens, ages 14?18, with after school

and out-of-school time programs; these programs provide some of the city?s most vulnerable
youth with a safe environment that promotes career exploration and educational advancement.
ASM offers more than 200 year-round programs, which provide transferable skills that youth

ML
if 1? - .24.: A: 

will be able to use in both the classroom and as they move into the workplace. ASM utilizes a
three-tiered program model with pre-apprenticeship, apprenticeship and advanced apprenticeship
cohorts, each requiring applicants to possess a greater level of skill in the subject area upon entry
into the program. ASM has adopted the research-based Youth Program Quality (YPQ) model to
promote continuous improvement between ASM management, program instructors and
participants. The core of the YPQ model seeks to foster safe and supportive environments that
encourage peer interaction, youth engagement and exploration.

Programs are led by experienced, industry professionals who are able to provide participants
with transferrable skills in the speci?c program area and who are experienced in engaging and
motivating teens. Programs fall into one (1) of ?ve (5) content areas: gallery, technology, words,
science or sports. Through the apprenticeship programs, youth are empowered with career
readiness skills such as accountability, self-control, initiative, teamwork, and problem solving. In
order to create a continuum of programming that can reach some of Chicago?s most underserved
teens, ASM partners with city sister agencies Department of Family and Support Services
Chicago Public Schools Chicago Park District, CHA, etc.) and more than 100
community based organizations throughout Chicago neighborhoods.

ASM is responsible for procuring, managing and monitoring more than 200 youth apprenticeship
employment programs during both the school year and summer out-of-school time. ASM
utilizes a competitive procurement process via a Request for Proposals (RFP) that is released
every winter. While CHA assists in the promotion of the RFP by notifying its service providers,
the Local Advisory Council (LAC) and other youth organizations, ASM independently scores
and selects all of the programs and instructors.

All ASM programs serve cohorts of 15 or 30 youth, and have an instructor ratio of 1:15.
Additionally, in 2012, ASM will hire one (1) CHA resident for each program ?rnded by CHA to
assist in program implementation and supervision of youth. ASM piloted this concept at two (2)
programs at Trumbull Park during the Spring 2012 term and received a great response from
instructors, youth participants and the resident employees.

ASM offers three (3) terms throughout the calendar year, providing youth engaged year round
with over 180 hours of structured programming. During the summer term, participants are
engaged four (4) hours a day, four (4) days a week for six (6) weeks. Youth successfully
completing a summer apprenticeship level program earn a $420 stipend. During the fall and
spring ASM terms, participants engage in programming three (3) hours a day, three (3) days per
week for ten (10) weeks; and youth successfully completing the program earn a program award
of $100 per term.

Since 2007, Chapin Hall?s Center for Children at the University of Chicago has studied 
impact on academic achievement within its participants. In particular, they have found that ASM
participants who are highly engaged in programming (de?ned as participating in three 
continuous ASM aftersehool terms and attending a minimum of 27 of the 30 program days),
when compared to students who did not participate in ASM, are more likely to:

0 have better attendance during the school year and be absent 3.41 less days;
0 demonstrate improved academic performance (ASM participants on average failed only
9.6% of core courses compared to 15.8% of non-participants);

.. P. . 
me. an.

1- graduate high school (ASM participants have a 2.7 times greater chance of graduating);
and

enroll in college (ASM participants are 18% more likely to enroll in college following
high school graduation than non-participating CPS graduates).

Contract 
CHA has contracted directly with ASM, since 2003 through proposals by non-competitive

procurement process, to ensure slots for CHA youth in the ASM summer employment programs.
While CHA youth are able to apply for any of 200 plus summer programs and more than
300 fall and spring programs, funding agreement with ASM has allowed for programs to
be created on or near underserved CHA properties and in those communities with high
concenuations of HCV and public housing residents. ASM and CHA have collaborated each
year throughout the months prior to the start of the summer session in order to determine
communities in need of additional programs, as well as identifying the general types 
gallery, technology) of programs in which youth are interested in participating. ASM utilizes
feedback on service gaps and independently identi?es appropriate programs to be
implemented in these communities.

Programs such as the Altgeld Youth Drama Group, Archi-treasures youth community planning
projects at Roosevelt Square and Lathrop, The Art of Drumming in the Washington
Park/Woodlawn neighborhood and the Iron Street Farm Wentworth Garden project are examples
of programs created by ASM for CHA youth in the summer of 2011 with funding from CHA.
All ASM programs have a demonstrated outcome at the end of each term, such as a theater
presentation, dance composition, video project, or murals displayed throughout the community.
One such program, a 2010 summer mural project at Trumbull Park, produced the murals that are
installed on the 12?l ?oor of headquarters.

CHA has been able to leverage its agreement to generate additional youth participation in
ASM programs. In 2010, 608 CHA youth participated in summer programs, while CHA funded
355 slots. In 2011, although CHA funded only 300 slots for summer programs, 692 CHA youth
participated during the summer term. Through a new data share agreement with ASM put into
place in 2011, CHA has been able to identify a total of 2,688 CHA youth, who participated in
ASM programs throughout the calendar year.

The data share agreement with ASM allows CHA to identify youth that participate in any ASM
program and to identify communities in need of additional youth opportunities. It was through
this new agreement that Resident Services learned 20% of CHA youth in ASM programs
participated in more than one session, ultimately bene?ting from the opportunity to advance
within the ASM framework. As a result of the information provided by the data share
agreement, Resident Services was better able to evaluate program participation and to
recommend year round ASM programs to provide more opportunities during the school year.

For the summer and fall sessions of 2012 and the spring session of 2013, CHA and ASM will
collaborate to develop year-round programming opportunities that will ultimately serve a total of
315 CHA teens. It is anticipated that ASM will create four (4) programs each term (Summer,
Fall and Spring). Providing year round opportunities will promote continuity for youth and
builds trusting relationships with adults and their peers, while having a positive e??ect on their
academic performance. The addition of a CHA resident being engaged in each of these

programs promotes partnership and cooperation between youth and adults within their
communities.

ASM is currently evaluating its science program model and hopes to implement a science
program for CHA youth by the spring of 2013 term. ASM will utilize the same meticulous
evaluation procedures in selecting program leaders for the identi?ed program sites. 
contracted case management providers g. FamilyWorks) will assist in recruiting applicants for
these targeted programs. Youth then apply online through the city of Chicago?s One Summer
Chicago site, and through the existing data share with ASM, CHA youth will be identi?ed as
preferred participants.

Conclusion

Based upon the foregoing, it is in the best interest of CHA to authorize the Chief Executive
Officer, or his designee, to enter into a contract with After School Matters to provide
pie-apprenticeship and apprenticeship youth employment programs for a total of 3 5 CHA youth
ages 14-18 for the period of June 1, 2012 through May 31, 2013 for a total amount not-to-exceed
$330,000.

RESOLUTION NO. 2012-CHA-38

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the

Board Letter dated May 9, 2012, entitled TO ENTER
INTO A CONTRACT WITH AFTER SCHOOL MATTERS TO PROVIDE
PRE-APPRENTICESHIP AND APPRENTICESHIP YOUTH EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAMS FOR CHA 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his
designee to enter into a contract with A?er School Matters to provide
pre-apprenticeship and apprenticeship youth employment programs for a total of
315 CHA youth ages 14-18 for the period ofJune 1, 2012 through May 31, 2013
for a total amount not-to-exceed $330,000.

     

Mummy"




of Commissioners

    

   
 
   

 
   

?r a . ., cars: {a .4 .. .h 
*5 53:? .5 d1" Ir? 1&5: . 11:? Lu]? 

