MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING

OF THE

COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 17, 2007
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its 70th Annual and Regular Meeting
of the Board of Commissioners on Tuesday, July 17, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. at Mahalia Jackson,
9141-77 S. South Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
Chairperson Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were
as follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young

Absent:

Carlos Ponce

Also present were Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive officer; Adrienne Minley, Chief of
Staff; Jorge Cazares, General Counsel; Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the
General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Martin Nesbitt, Chairman, then presented his Annual Report. Per Chairman Nesbitt the annual
meeting is a time to take a brief inventory of CHA’s current challenges and successes, with a
look at its history and its future. This is the eighth year of the historic Plan for Transformation.
By year’s end, CHA will have rehabbed 80% of its inventory scheduled for rehabilitation,
including 94% of senior properties and will have completed 1/3% of scheduled new construction
in mixed income developments. Chairman Nesbitt continued by saying that by the end of 2007
some very significant milestones will be crossed, including the return of former Stateway and
Robert Taylor residents to new mixed income developments known as Park Boulevard and
Legends South which will be built on the footprint of those old infamous projects. According to
Chairman Nesbitt, these changes are not just symbolism, but real change, in real human terms.
At the half way point in the Plan, much has been accomplished. High rises along the State Street
corridor are all down, and successful new mixed income communities now exist on the sites of
former blight and despair. Leaseholders are living far safer lives, in far better conditions than
they were when the Plan began. CHA’s units are integrated into mixed buildings, on mixed
income blocks and CHA developments are becoming integrated into the city as a whole. Where
there were super blocks, the City has reinstituted the street grid to connect developments to the
surrounding community. The second important success CHA is realizing is in economic terms.
Under the Plan for Transformation, in the last few years CHA’s partners have helped more than
3,500 leaseholders find work for the first time. And for those leaseholders who do work, wages
have increased by 50 percent. This is important economic integration of public housing
leaseholders into the larger economy of the city. Per the Chair, the toughest challenge remains,
however, and it is neither physical nor economic integration. It remains social integration.
Social integration, according to the Chair, comes from the outside as well as from within. CHA
will get to a point where a renter of a CHA unit is a renter, in no way different from any other
renter anywhere in the city and where a family leasing a CHA unit is not a “CHA family”, but
1

 just a family – like any other Chicago family since the goal of the Plan for Transformation is to
dissolve all the levels of isolation and realize integration. Chairman Nesbitt concluded his report
by acknowledging the continued support of the Board, staff, residents, sister agencies, partners
and the public at large.
Sharon Gist Gilliam, Chief Executive Officer, then presented her monthly report. Ms. Gilliam
commenced her report by acknowledging the excellent work of Bank of America who was
instrumental in coordinating 200 volunteers who showed up for a Playground Build at Loomis
Court on June 23rd and converting a dirt lot into a beautiful state-of-the-art playground. The
second partner recognized by CEO Gilliam was Siemens who kicked off the Siemens Skills for
Life Program at Roosevelt University. This 8-week course offered 20 high school students, all
CHA residents, an intensive course on the skills, cultures, norms, expectations and behaviors that
aren’t taught in a traditional classroom setting. Ms. Gilliam then announced to the public that
this was a very sad day for the CHA since it would be the last meeting of Commissioner Gates as
a Board Member. Ms. Gilliam concluded her report by acknowledging and thanking
Commissioner Gates for his great service to the City, CHA, and to the CHA residents.
On behalf of the Board of Commissioners, Chairman Nesbitt then presented Commissioner
Gates with a resolution and a plaque thanking him for his services during his tenure as
Commissioner. The resolution is hereby included as part of the Minutes of this meeting.
Commissioner Gates then thanked the Chairman, Board, CEO Gilliam, staff and residents for
their support during his term as a CHA Commissioner. Commissioner Gates indicated that it has
been a true pleasure to serve on the CHA Board. Commissioner Gates then shared what he
believes are the most critical issues affecting public housing residents: Entitlement.
Commissioner Gates encouraged CHA residents to take advantage of programs made available
by CHA for education, job training, literacy and day care programs that would change their
quality of life. Commissioner Gates concluded by thanking all for enriching his life for what he
will always consider a most memorable experience.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately one (1) hour to
discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, collective negotiating matters, security and
personnel matters.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records aka Secretary of the CHA Board of Commissioners. A Motion was made by
Commissioner Wiggins and properly seconded by Commissioner Harris to nominate Lee ChucGill for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records, Secretary. There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of
Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
A Motion was then introduced by Commissioner Wiggins and seconded by Commissioner
Young to approve Meeting Minutes for Special Meeting of June 14-15, 2007 and Regular
Meeting of June 19, 2007.
Chairman Nesbitt thereupon introduced the Resolutions discussed in Executive Session and
presented an Omnibus Motion to approve the following resolutions for Executive Session Item 1
thru 3:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-86
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 11, 2007, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for June 2007.

2

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
June 2007.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the request for authorization to amend
the contract amount under Contract No. 6064 with Moore, Strickland & WhitsonOwen in connection with Kakilya Stuckey, et al. v. CHA et al., Case No. 02
L6957.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend Contract No. 6064 with Moore, Strickland & Whitson-Owen to
increase the contract in an amount not to exceed $140,000 to pay for legal fees and
costs regarding the Kakilya Stuckey, et al. v. CHA et al., Case No. 02 L 6957
litigation matter.

Executive Session Item 3
Commissioner O’Keefe abstained from voting on Item #3 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 11, 2007,
entitled “Authorization to Exercise Option to Extend Legal Services Agreement
with Various Law Firms”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorized the exercise, subject to approval of the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, for the options to
extend the legal services agreements with 1. Gardner, Carton & Douglas, 2. Grant,
Holt & Schumann, 3. Schwartz, Cooper, Greenberger & Krauss 4. Scopelities,
Garvin, Light & Hanson, 5. Shefsky & Froelich, and 6. Tyson, Strong & Hill for a
one year period or until their assigned matters are resolved.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 3 was seconded by
Commissioner Gates and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe (abstained from voting on Item #3 only)
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance and Audit Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner O’Keefe the Finance and Audit Committee did not hold its
regular Committee Meeting on Wednesday, July 11, 2007 at 1:00 p.m. due to a lack of quorum.
Staff, however, provided the Committee with the Treasury and Cash Flow Report for the month
of June 2007 and an overview of the two Noticed-up items.
Commissioner O’Keefe then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 and A2 discussed by the Finance and Audit Committee.

3

 (Item A1)
The CHA is required to submit for approval to the Board, a balanced annual Comprehensive
Budget detailing use of funds for each of the following: General Fund, Section 8 Non-MTW,
HOPE VI and Other Funding Programs. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A1 approves
submission of the Revised FY2007 budget. The FY2007 budgeted expenditures have been
revised from $939,565,797 to $938,947,086, resulting in a $618,711 decrease. The major
changes by funding source are as follows: General Fund - total revenues and associated
expenditures decreased by $771,711 for a fund total of $853,714,156. The decrease reflects the
elimination of several CHA vacant positions. With regards to the HOPE VI, City-State and
Section 8 Non-MTW funds the budget remained unchanged at $51,325,244, $1,451,662 and
$15,435,815, respectively. Other Funding - the total revenues and associated expenditures
increased by $153,000 for a fund total of $17,020,209. The increase is primarily due to funding
provided for the purchase of vacant land for the Madden Park property. The estimated sum of all
revenues for fiscal year 2007 and the amount of the fiscal year 2007 Fund Balance available for
appropriation in the fiscal year is equal to the estimated sum of all expenditures to be made or
incurred during the fiscal year and the amount of all unpaid liabilities at the beginning of the
fiscal year 2007.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board letter dated July 11, 2007,
entitled “APPROVAL OF THE REVISED 2007 COMPREHENSIVE
BUDGET”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners, hereby approves the attached budget amendments,
“THE FY2007 COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET AMENDMENT #2”, and finds
with respect to said Budget:
1.

2.

3.

THAT,

that the proposed expenditures are necessary for the efficient and
economical operation of the Chicago Housing Authority for the purpose of
serving low-income families;
that the financial plan is reasonable in that it indicates funding sources
adequate to cover all proposed expenditures, and does not provide for use
of Federal funding in excess of that payable under the provisions of the
applicable Federal regulations; and
that all proposed rental charges and expenditures will be consistent with
provisions of law and the Annual Contributions Contract in accordance
with the Moving To Work Demonstration Agreement of the Chicago
Housing Authority with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are authorized to execute
and forward to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development all
necessary budget documents and supporting information when applicable.

(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the first one-year option of contract with Mesirow
Insurance Services to provide employee benefit plan insurance brokerage and consulting services
for CHA’s employee insurance plans. The Contract’s base term was June 26, 2006 through June
25, 2007 for an amount of $92,127.00 and the Contract provided for 4 one-year options. Based
upon the availability of funding and Mesirow’s satisfactory performance of the Contract to date,
the CHA desires to extend the Contract for the first one-year option term. The exercise of the
first one-year option will allow Mesirow to continue to provide employee benefit plan insurance
brokerage and consulting services for the new January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008
benefit plan year.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-90
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11, 2007,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION
OF CONTRACT NO. 6026 WITH MESIROW INSURANCE SERVICES INC.
FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS INSURANCE BROKERAGE AND
CONSULTING SERVICES”;

4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority (“Board”)
authorize the Chief Executive Officer or her designees to exercise the first oneyear option of Contract No. 6026 with Mesirow Financial Services, Inc. for the
period of June 26, 2007 through June 25, 2008 for an amount not-to-exceed
$83,356.84 to continue to provide employee benefit plan insurance brokerage and
consulting services to the CHA for the process of renewal/extension of insurance
and employee benefits for the CHA’s eligible participants. The Contract’s new
total not-to-exceed compensation amount will be $175,481.88. The Board
authorizes the CEO or her designee to exercise the second, third and fourth option
years for an amount not-to-exceed $83,356.84 per year (aggregate amount not-toexceed $250,070.52 for the 3 additional option years), subject to the satisfactory
performance of the Contract and funding availability.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 and A2 was seconded by
Commissioner Young and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Earnest Gates, then presented the Operations and Facilities monthly report. Per
Commissioner Gates, the Operations and Facilities Committee Meeting was held on Wednesday,
July 11, 2007 at approximately 1:40 p.m. at the 60 E. Van Buren Corporate offices.
Commissioner Gates then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of the Resolutions for
Items B1thru B6 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Operations and
Facilities Committee.
(Item B1)
The resolution for Item B1 approves a contract modification for Burling Builders for additional
work related to the general renovation of Bridgeport Homes. This Contract Modification
provides for the installation of sewer connections; the staining of concrete cornice; the infill of
all meter box openings and concrete repairs to the existing openings; drywall lamination for
Phases 3-5; excavation under the utility room slabs; insulation of the utility room walls; and
removal and replacement of the existing windows.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-91
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11, 2007
entitled “Authorization to execute Modification No. G-10 to Contract No. 0388
with Burling Builders for additional work related to the General Renovation of
Bridgeport Homes (IL2-004)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-10 to Contract No. 0388 with
Burling Builders, Inc. in the amount of $1,048,580.30 for additional work related
to the general renovation of Bridgeport Homes (IL2-004) at 3175 South Lituanica.
The new total contract amount of Contract No. 0388 is $14,718,875.78.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
5

 CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B2)
The resolution for Item B2 approves a contract modification for Walsh Construction for
additional work related to the general renovation of Philip Murray Homes - Phase 2 at 969 East
132nd Place. Contract Modification No. G-04 provides for exterior site lighting around the
buildings and in the parking lots at Block 17. Although the construction drawings and
specifications approved by the CHA properly provided for exterior site lighting, all references to
the exterior site lighting were unintentionally omitted by the Architect and its printer when
submitting the construction drawings and specifications to the contractors bidding on the project.
Accordingly, the contract must be modified to provide for the necessary site lighting at a cost of
$648,356.00. At the same time that the site lighting issue arose, the Capital Construction
Division was in the process of identifying potential credits to the contract as a result of material
availability and value engineering. Accordingly, credits will be issued for changes to: medicine
and kitchen cabinet specifications; kitchen sink specifications; insulation specifications; and
window accessory specifications. The Capital Construction Division has also elected to take a
credit against the unused portion of the contractual allowance for the gas/utility connection to
reduce the net cost of this change order to zero.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-92
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 11, 2007
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE MODIFICATION NO. G-04 TO
CONTRACT NO. 7005 WITH WALSH CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR
ADDITIONAL WORK RELATED TO THE GENERAL RENOVATION OF
PHILIP MURRAY HOMES (IL2-011) – PHASE 2”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute Contract Modification No. G-04 to Contract No. 7005 with
Walsh Construction Company for additional work related to the general
renovation of Philip Murray Homes (IL2-011) – Phase 2 at 969 East 132nd Place.
The total contract amount of Contract No. 7005 remains at $62,742,993.00.
This Contract Modification is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the
CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

(Item B3)
The CHA advertised Request for Proposal No. 01506 on April 3, 2007 for Prime Design
Consultant (PDC) Services at Washington Park Homes – Low Rise. The CHA advertised the
RFP in area newspapers and on the CHA website. The CHA also directly solicited ninety-two
firms, including twenty-three MBE/WBE/DBE firms, and fourteen assist agencies. Of the nine
proposals received a committee evaluated the proposals and four firms were found to be in the
competitive range. Each of the four firms made a presentation and submitted a Best and Final
Offer. Upon further consideration the Evaluation Committee recommended that Fox & Fox
Architects be awarded the contract. The PDC services include, but will not be limited to,
preparation of all drawings and specifications, preparation of all related contract documents,
construction management activities, and assistance in obtaining construction bids and permits
related to the 44 units at the Washington Park Homes, Low Rise. The selected Respondent will
also be designated as the Architect of Record for the units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-93
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 11, 2007
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A CONTRACT WITH FOX &
FOX ARCHITECTS FOR PRIME DESIGN CONSULTANT SERVICES AT
WASHINGTON PARK HOMES – LOW RISE (IL2-034)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to execute a contract with Fox & Fox Architects in the amount of
6

 $455,960.00 for Prime Design Consultant Services at Washington Park Homes –
Low Rise (IL2-034). These services and others will be performed for various low
rise locations covering forty-four (44) units at Washington Park Homes. The
contract shall take effect on the date designated in the Notice to Proceed, and shall
continue until the end date indicated in the contract or until the assigned jobs are
completed, whichever is later.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.
(Item B4)
The resolution for item B4 approves a Master development Agreement with Davis Associates
Managers, LLC for the Mixed-Income Development of Lake Park Crescent Phase II. On
September 21st, 2006, the Lake Park Crescent Working Group recommended the selection of
Davis Associates Managers LLC as the master developer of Lake Park Crescent Phase II. The
developer was selected for their proposal to seamlessly integrate 269 new housing units into the
surrounding community and street grid while adhering to the restrictions of the existing master
plan. On November 21st, 2006, the CHA Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief
Executive Officer or her designee to enter into Development Agreement negotiations with Davis
Associates Managers LLC. The Development Agreement calls for the development of a mixedincome community of 47 public housing units, 55 affordable housing units, and 167 market-rate
housing units. The affordable dwellings will be a mix of 19 rental and 36 homeownership units,
and the market-rate dwellings will consist of 15 rental and 152 homeownership units. The
diverse housing types for this phase include a combination of 6-Flats, 3-Flats, Row-Homes; and
a Mid-Rise and Tower building. The CHA will ground lease a portion of the land to the
developer for rental development, and may convey a portion in fee for the construction of singlefamily homes planned as part of the overall development. The developer will be responsible for
certain planning and predevelopment activities, assembling financing, construction, managing
the development process, and managing the rental units upon construction completion. The
developer will sell the homeownership units and it is anticipated that CHA will share in the
proceeds.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-94
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11, 2007
requesting authorization to enter into a Master Development Agreement for the
mixed-income development of Lake Park Crescent Phase II.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves and authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or her designee to enter into a Master Development Agreement (the
“Development Agreement”) with Davis Associates Managers LLC (“Developer”)
and Daniel E. Levin and the Habitat Company LLC, the court-appointed
Gautreaux Receiver (the “Receiver”) for the mixed-income development of Lake
Park Crescent Phase II.

(Item B5)
As part of the implementation of the CHA’s Voluntary Compliance Agreement (VCA) with the
HUD, the CHA released an RFP in July 2006 to provide third-party verifications of the CHA’s
designated Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) Accessible Units. As a result of the
RFP and with HUD’s approval, a contract was executed between the CHA and LCM for the term
of November 15, 2006, to November 14, 2007, for an amount not to exceed $500,000.00. These
services were needed to verify that thirty-five percent of all of the CHA’s rehabilitated and/or
redeveloped UFAS-Accessible Units met requirements of Federal accessibility. The successful
execution of this benchmark is crucial not only because it is the first benchmark, but also
because it represents a milestone on which all other subsequent benchmarks are built upon.
LCM has inspected approximately 700 UFAS-Accessible Units (both mobility impaired and
sensory), which have yielded only 37 Sensory Unit verifications, well below the VCA’s
benchmark requirements. To achieve the benchmark instituted by the VCA, more funding is
required to inspect additional UFAS-Accessible Units and to re-inspect units that were
previously inspected but were deemed non-compliant. Accordingly, the resolution for Item B5
approves amendment of contract with LCM for the provision of third-party certifications. To
7

 date, LCM has provided the CHA with exemplary service. LCM has performed its obligations
under the Contract by creating an inspection tool; inspecting approximately 600 UFASAccessible Units, 90 individual Sensory Impairment Units, and over 40 Common-Use Areas; and
has submitted the required reports. They will perform the additional CHA inspections under the
same rate as previously negotiated.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-95
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 11, 2007,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND CONTRACT NO. 6061 WITH LCM
ARCHITECTS, LTD. FOR THE PROVISION OF THIRD-PARTY
CERTIFICATIONS”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to amend Contract No. 6061 (“Contract”) with LCM Architects, Ltd. to
increase funding by an amount not to exceed $500,000.00 The new amount of
Contract No. 6061 will be $1,000,000.00. The length of the contract remains
unchanged.

(Item B6)
Beginning in 1995 the CHA has aggressively pursued additional operating subsidy from HUD
through the use of HUD performance contracting regulations as they relate to capital projects
with energy saving attributes, commonly referred to as Energy Service Contracting (ESCO). The
first CHA ESCO Project (Project 1) was approved, financed, and implemented in 1997. Over the
course of the following seven years, CHA has received HUD approval on both Project 2 and
Project 3 resulting in an overall program of $30,000,000.00 in energy efficient upgrades.
Approximately 85% of the funding was granted by HUD for these programs, which consisted of
numerous capital upgrades, as well as Energy Star appliance purchases. Based on a Request for
Qualifications (RFQ) issued by the Authority which competitively solicited qualified firms
and/or individuals who could improve building efficiency, enhance occupant comfort, improve
resident safety, and reduce energy and operating costs for facilities for an extended period of
time three vendors were chosen to participate in the competitive proposal process: Honeywell,
Siemens Building Technologies, and Ameresco. Based on the evaluation committee
recommendation it was determined that both Siemens Building Technologies and Ameresco
were the most qualified to work on future CHA energy related projects. Accordingly, resolution
for Item B6 approves contract with Ameresco and Siemens Technologies for energy assistance
services. These energy-related initiatives will result in lower energy consumption and costs. In
addition, proposed energy efficient building upgrades will substantially reduce operating
expenses, such as payroll, materials, supplies, and contract maintenance. These services and
improvements will be delivered on a performance contracting basis with guaranteed savings. To
ensure the return on investment through energy savings, the ESCO vendors will install wireless
monitoring equipment that will enable the CHA to know the condition and performance of its
equipment in real time. Both, Siemens and Ameresco are certified and accredited by the National
Associates of Energy Services Companies (NAESCO).
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-96
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11, 2007,
entitled “Authorization To Enter Into Energy Service Contracts With Ameresco
And Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. For Energy Assistance Services”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to: 1) negotiate possible Energy Service Contracts with Ameresco and/or
Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. for energy assistance services and energy
related capital improvements; 2) authorize a request for an “add on to subsidy”
from HUD to assist in the funding of the ESCO capital project, consistent with
HUD “Performance Contracting” regulations; and 3) authorize for CHA to
negotiate capital financing from to fund the Energy Service contracts in an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed sixty ($60,000,000.00) million dollars.

8

 The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items B1 thru B6 was seconded by Commissioner
Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Operations and Facilities Committee report was also accepted
in total.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, July 11, 2007 at approximately 2:15 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices.
Kellie O’Connell of CHA’s Resident Services department and representatives from
Heartland presented the Committee with an update on Transitional Jobs.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C 4 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
The resolution for Item C1 approves acceptance of a grant award that was received on May 31,
2007, in the amount of $300,000.00 from HUD. This grant award will be used to help fund and
administer a Program that will centralize and coordinate resources through its own Senior
Programs Department. The goal of the Program is to ensure that supportive services are available
for seniors where few exist and to develop a reliable system for documenting and tracking the
impact of the program where it has been implemented. The Program engages local partnerships
that provide residents with a wide range of enriching and self-improvement experiences,
emphasizing programs that improve the quality of life for residents within their own
neighborhoods.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-97
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 11, 2007 entitled “RATIFICATION OF ACCEPTANCE
OF A GRANT AWARD FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOR THE SENIOR SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
PROGRAM AND AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE FY2007
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”;.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the acceptance of a grant award from the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the amount of
$300,000.00 for the Senior Supportive Services Program (the “Program”) and
authorizes the CEO or her designee to increase the FY2007 comprehensive
budget by $100,000.00.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves the third one-year option of contract with Northeastern
Illinois University for Counseling and Supportive Services to families that had to relocate from
their existing public housing units. The exercise of the third one-year option period for the
period of September 1, 2007 through August 31, 2008 will allow NEIU to provide follow-up
services to families at Ickes Homes and Lawndale Gardens as well as services for newly referred
families assigned. Services to be provided include obtaining/maintaining lease compliance,
9

 assessment, providing community tours, identifying housing and other services to assist families
in meeting their housing choice. NEIU has met its contract obligations with the CHA. And no
additional funding is required for the third one-year option, since the Contract’s current available
balance of funds is sufficient to cover the cost for families that relocated in 2007 and are
assigned to NEIU throughout the third year extension option.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-98
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 11, 2007 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE
THE THIRD ONE-YEAR OPTION OF CONTRACT NO. 0598 WITH
NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY FOR HOUSING COUNSELING
AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the third, one- year option of Contract No. 0598 (“Contract”)
with Northeastern Illinois University for housing counseling and supportive
services for the period of September 1, 2007 through August 31, 2008 with no
increase in the not-to-exceed compensation amount required. Authorization is
given to utilize the balance available at the end of the current term and the
Contract’s not-to-exceed amount of compensation will remain at $2,347,061.00.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves contract extension with Heartland Housing, Inc. to provide
Community and Supportive Services to families relocating to Jazz on the Boulevard Community.
The services to be rendered during the new extension period will continue to focus on assisting
residents through the screening process by supplementing residents’ efforts to present accurate
documentation to meet the screening criteria, and providing job placement and retention services,
among other necessary services. In addition, Century will offer post-occupancy services to help
residents continue maintain their housing. Based upon the availability of funding and Century’s
performance of the Contract to date, the CHA desires to exercise the additional one-year option
period previously authorized by the Board for the period of September 1, 2007 through August
31, 2008, and to increase the Contract’s funding by $160,000.00 adding it to the carryover
balance available at the end of the current term.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-99
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 11, 2007,
entitled "AUTHORIZATION TO EXTEND CONTRACT NO. 0633 WITH
HEARTLAND HOUSING, INC. D/B/A CENTURY PLACE DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION TO PROVIDE COMMUNITY AND SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES TO FAMILIES RELOCATING TO THE JAZZ ON THE
BOULEVARD COMMUNITY”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or her
designee to exercise the option to extend Contract No. 0633 (“Contract”) with
Heartland Housing, Inc. d/b/a Century Place Development Corporation for the
period of September 1, 2007 through August 31, 2008 and to increase the
Contract’s funding by the amount of $160,000.00 adding it to the carry over the
balance available at the end of the current contract term to provide community
and supportive services to CHA residents relocating to the Jazz On The Boulevard
mixed income community. The Contract’s total aggregate not-to-exceed
compensation amount will be $1,116,565.00.

(Item C4)
The resolution for Item C4 ratifies contact with After School Matters for the Summer PreApprenticeship Employment Training Program. After School Matters will continue to partner
with the City, Chicago Public Schools, Chicago Park District and Chicago Public Library to
have multiple resources and facilities available to young CHA adults. CHA teenage residents
will be seamlessly integrated in the Program with other teenage Chicago residents. The Program
is scheduled to run five days per week, four hours per day, from July 2, 2007 through August 11,
10

 2007. Participants will receive a combination of academic training and professional skill
development from skilled teachers who will focus on teaching the hard skills of the discipline
(such as technology, business, science or skilled trades, e.g. carpentry/plumbing.), the soft skills
necessary to function in a workplace (such as problem-solving and teamwork), and provide the
structure to intertwine the academic component. A teacher-consultant will provide the academic
component (activities, exercises) that focuses on core skills in math or reading correlating to the
hard skills of the specific discipline.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-CHA-100
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 11, 2007 entitled “Recommendation To Ratify The
Contract With After School Matters To Provide A Pre-Apprenticeship
Employment Training Program for 14 And 15 Year Old CHA Residents”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the noncompetitive contract with After
School Matters, Inc., a not for profit 501(c)(3) corporation, to provide a summer
pre-apprenticeship employment training program for a maximum of 200 fourteen
and fifteen year old CHA residents for the period of July 2, 2007 through August
11, 2007 for a total amount not to exceed $272,500.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C4 was seconded by Commissioner O’Keefe
and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Earnest Gates
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Bridget O’Keefe
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

s/b:

s/b:

Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

11

Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

 