May 9, 2012 ITEM NO. B4

AUTHORIZATION TO 1) ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH STATEWAY ASSOCIATES,
LLC FOR ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES AT THE PARK BOULEVARD
PHASE IIB RENTAL REDEVELOPMENT SITE AND 2) EXECUTE OTHER DOCUMENTS AS
NECESSARY TO IMPLEMENT THE FOREGOING

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:



It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee
to enter into a contract (?Remediation Agreement?) for environmental remediation activities with
Stateway Associates, LLC (the ?Developer?) for a total contract amount not to exceed $1,125,028 which
represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the Park Boulevard Phase IIB Rental
Redevelopment Site. The term of the remediation contract shall commence at closing and expire the
earlier of receipt of a ?No Funher Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency or (ii) two years, subject to a one year extension at election.

mm
Not to excwd $1,125,028 of General and/or Other Funds

Vendor: Stateway Associates, LLC
Contract Type: Environmental Remediation
Contract Amount: $1,125,028 (Represents 200% of the estimated remediation

cost for the Park Boulevard Phase IIB Rental Redevelopment site)

Contract Period: From closing throughout receipt of ?No Further Remediation? letter or two
(2) years, subject to a one (1) year extension at election

Section 3 Participation: Compliance Af?davit on ?le
EXPLANATION

On February 20, 2001 Stateway Associates, LLC was selected as the developer for the HOPE Vl
Revitalization Program at Stateway Gardens in response to the Request for Quali?cations (RFQ) Number
20103 issued by the Chicago Housing Authority and the former court-appointed Gautreaux Receiver,
Daniel E. Levin and The Habitat Company, LLC (?Habitat?).

Pursuant to the development agreement, CHA is required to ?md the cost of site remediation for pre-
existing conditions on the entire rental development site (other than costs the Developer would have
incurred in any event), subject to certain rights to terminate for infeasibility.

As part of the construction preparation, a number of environmental investigation studies were completed
for the CHA-owned land included in the Phase IIB site. These studies have identi?ed certain
environmental contaminants on the site that can be effectively remediated with an ?engineered barrier?
approach. This approach is the preferred method because it is the least costly and is also acceptable to

the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Under the engineered ban'ier approach to remediation, the
top 3 feet of soil will be removed and disposed of as ?special waste? at an approved licensed special
waste land?ll, and replaced by the equivalent quantity of clean soil in all proposed landscaped areas. The
soil removed for the excavation of the foundations will be disposed of as special waste. The balance of
the site will be capped by impermeable surfaces building structures, parking lots, streets, sidewalks,
etc.). This is the approach that was used on the ?rst phase of construction at Park Boulevard, formerly the
Stateway Gardens public housing deve10pment.

The estimated remediation costs for the Park Boulevard Phase IIB Rental site is $562,514. 
contractual responsibility for remediating foreseen and unforeseen environmental conditions is capped at
200% of this estimated total cost and equals $1,125,028. The required participation
commitment is 40% of the estimated remediation cost of $1,125,028. Additionally, the contractor has
made a commitment to hire one (1) Section 3 individual, likely as a laborer.

Based on the foregoing, it is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chicago
Housing Authority to enter into a Remediation Agreement with Stateway Associates, LLC for
environmental remediation activities at the Park Boulevard Phase Rental redevelopment site in a total
contract amount not to exceed $1,125,028. (which represents 200% of the estimated total remediation
cost). The term of the Remediation Agreement shall commence at closing and expire the earlier of 
receipt of a ?No Further Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii)
two (2) years, subject to a one (1) year extension at election.

WHEREAS,

RE NN .2012CHA 5

the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated May 9, 2012,
requesting authorization to enter into a contract, the Remediation Agreement, for
environmental remediation activities with Stateway Associates, LLC, the Developer, for
a total contract amount not to exceed $1,125,028 which represents 200% of the estimated
remediation cost for the Park Boulevard Phase [13 Rental Redevelopment Site. The term
of the remediation contract shall commence at closing and expire the earlier of receipt
of a ?No Further Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
or (ii) two years, subject to a one year extension at election.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY

THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee to
enter into a contract, the Remediation Agreement, for environmental remediation
activities with Stateway Associates, LLC, the Developer, for a total contract amount not
to exceed $1,125,028 which represents 200% of the estimated remediation cost for the
Park Boulevard Phase IIB Rental Redevelopment Site. The term of the remediation
contract shall commence at closing and expire the earlier of receipt of a ?No Further
Remediation? letter from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or (ii) two (2)
years, subject to a one (1) year extension at election.

Wilhlw?lljl

   
      
 

.1

Commissioners

 

 

