ITEM NO. B4

October 13, 2010

REQUEST AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENT
(HAP) CONTRACT FOR NUESTRO HOGAR
To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the attached Resolution authorizing
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP)
contract for 8 of 31 units at Nuestro Hogar, an affordable housing development for families
owned and operated by Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation.
FUNDING SOURCE
N/A

EXPLANATION
Nuestro Hogar
Nuestro Hogar consists of 31 units located in two existing multifamily buildings in the Humboldt
Park community: an 18 unit building at 3655 W. Wabansia and a 13 unit building at 4101 W.
Kamerling. Both buildings were rehabilitated in 2002 by the Bickerdike Redevelopment
Corporation and contain a mix of 2 and 3 bedroom units in 3-story brick walkups. The properties
are located near transit and major commercial corridors of North Ave., Grand Ave., and Pulaski
Street. Other neighborhood amenities include the McCormick YMCA and Humboldt Park.
The developer is Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation, an Illinois not-for-profit corporation,
experienced in owning, developing and managing affordable housing. Over the past 42 years
Bickerdike has developed more than 1,000 units, including 867 affordable rental and co-op units
with an additional 169 new units in development. Bickerdike has won numerous local and
national awards for its affordable housing development and preservation work.
The Chicago Housing Authority (“CHA”) will provide Property Rental Assistance subsidy for 8
of the 31 units at Nuestro Hogar. These properties were selected and recommended by the
Regional Housing Initiative.
Background on RHI:
The Regional Housing Initiative (“RHI”) is an Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) between
the CHA, the Housing Authorities of Cook County, Lake, McHenry, Joliet and Waukegan, the
Illinois Housing Development Authority and the Metropolitan Planning Council to pool project
based vouchers in order to establish project based developments. The Board Resolution
approving the IGA was passed on February 19, 2002. The goal of RHI is to promote attractive
60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 mixed income housing development that meets community and regional needs, with particular
focus on locations near jobs and public transit, designed to enhance efficiency and long term
strong management. CHA agreed to enter into the IGA with the other participating parties in
order to create additional rental units in opportunity areas for Housing Choice Voucher (“HCV”)
applicants.
All participating Public Housing Authorities (“PHAs” or in the singular “PHA”) have the ability
to refer potential tenants to RHI assisted units. The RHI establishes a panel to recommend
acceptable sites for development then forwards the potential project to the Lead Housing
Authority (“Lead”) for approval. The Lead is the housing authority in the jurisdiction of the site
location. Upon approval of the site, a Housing Assistance Contract (“HAP”) will be executed
for the maximum allowable term.
Based on the foregoing, it is recommended that the Board of Commissioners approve the
attached Resolution authorizing the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute a Housing
Assistance Payments (HAP) contract for 8 of 31 units at Nuestro Hogar, an affordable housing
development for families, in accordance with the RHI program, subject to any HUD approvals.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-127
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated October 13, 2010 entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER
INTO A HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENT (HAP) CONTRACT FOR
NUESTRO HOGAR”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT:

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contract for 8 of 31
units at Nuestro Hogar, an affordable housing development for families, in
accordance with the RHI program, subject to any HUD approvals.

60 East Van Buren Street, 12th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282· www.thecha.org

 