MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL AND REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
July 15, 2008
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its 71st Annual and Regular Meeting
of the Board of Commissioners on Tuesday, July 15, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. at Altgeld Gardens
Community Building, 951 E. 132nd Place, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Nesbitt called the meeting to order and upon roll call, those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Bridget O’Keefe
Carlos Ponce
Mary Wiggins
Sandra Young
Absent:

None

Also present were Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive officer; Scott Ammarell, General Counsel;
Chicago Housing Authority Staff Members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as
follows:
Martin Nesbitt, Chairman, presented his Annual Report by welcoming staff, residents and the
public at large to the 71st Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago
Housing Authority. The Chairman’s reported on the progress made to date and the opportunities
and challenges that await in the future. Per the Chairman, CHA’s progress is measured within the
framework of the Plan for Transformation of reintegrating CHA properties and leaseholders into
the fabric of the city, and therefore, improving the future of residents and neighborhoods alike.
According to Mr. Nesbitt, to date, CHA has completed the building or rehabilitation of 16,799
units of public housing – or a full 64.7 % of the public housing units committed to in the Plan.
This includes nearly 10,000 units in senior housing, 4,000 units in family housing and 2,700
units in the mixed income developments. In addition, development partners have completed
more than 4,331 units of affordable and rental market rate housing and 2,700 units of for sale
housing at each of seven development sites. All rental units are occupied and as of today only
67 homes and condos remain to be sold. Chairman Nesbitt continued by stating that of the
16,849 leaseholders in family housing as of 10/1/99, 6,074 have made their final housing choice
with, 2,243 living in rehabbed or scattered-sites developments, 2,578 living in new mixed
income developments and 1,253 have permanently chosen to rent in the private market using a
Housing Choice Voucher. In addition, nearly 9,000 seniors are now living in rehabbed senior
units. As important 250 of the 10/1/99 leaseholders have become home owners, with purchase
both in Plan for Transformation communities and in dozens of other Chicago neighborhoods.
These 250 represent a personal transformation that is an inspiration to others, affirming that the
change promised by the Plan is attainable and real. Per the Chair, employment rates continue to
rise among the leaseholders, with 37% working and with wages for those working having
increased once again to $19,861. This represents a 12% increase from the numbers last year and
an approximately 95% increase over the earnings of leaseholders when the Plan began. The
Chairman concluded his report by acknowledging the stellar work of the CHA staff and the
commitment and work of CHA’s many partners to include the City, State, HUD, and non-profit
community organizations, elected officials, resident & community leaders and developers.
Lewis Jordan, Chief Executive Officer, then presented his monthly report. Per Mr. Jordan, over
the past six months he has developed a platform that focuses on Residents, Relocation and
1

 Reputation. To that end several organizational changes have been implemented that include
restructuring of the Resident Services and Housing Choice Voucher Programs and initiation of
the FamilyWorks Program. Mr. Jordan informed the Commissioners that he will continue to
strengthen and expand relationships and partnerships with community and resident leaders to
ensure that the CHA through its building of tenant management and use of its vouchers become
an ever stronger force for community health. Mr. Jordan then announced the successful
renegotiation of a new agreement with HUD that provides for greater TDC, enabling the CHA to
move forward with adequate funding to continue the quality construction and pace of building to
which it committed. Mr. Jordan concluded his report by emphasizing challenges anticipated in
FY2009 to include revision of policies to be more consistent with the direction of The Plan for
Transformation under the HOP Process, Relocation Rights Contract and policies associated with
10/01/99 Leaseholders.
Albert Clark, Program Executive of the Rise Group, together with Jim Miller from Holabird &
Root and Jeff Pezza from Walsh Construction then presented the Commissioners with a report on
Altgeld Gardens/Murray Homes Redevelopment.
On behalf of the CHA Board and Staff, Abejide Toure, a former resident of Altgeld Gardens was
then presented a proclamation and plaque for supporting children at Carver School by providing
financial, cultural and emotional support through his service as a benefactor.
CEO Jordan then introduced and welcomed CHA’s Experiencing CHAnge Interns. According to
Mr. Jordan, the revamped internship program is a vehicle that helps attract and engage bright,
fresh talent to the CHA workforce. The internships provide undergraduate and graduate students
with significant and meaningful projects in a real-world work environment. Summer and annual
internships are available to eligible students currently enrolled and in good standing; or entering
their first year in an accredited institution of higher education.
The Chairperson then convened the Public Hearing portion of the meeting by inviting residents
and the public at large to address the Board.
Due to prior Commitments, Commissioner O’Keefe, Chairperson of the Finance & Audit
Committee, departed the meeting at approximately 10:30 a.m.
Immediately following the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, a Motion was introduced and
seconded to adjourn to Executive Session. The Chairperson announced that pursuant to the
Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for approximately half hour to
possibly discuss pending, probable or imminent litigation, personnel related matters; collective
negotiating matters, purchase sale and lease of real estate property; establishment of reserves and
settlement of claims.
The Commissioners subsequently reconvened in Open Session.
The Chairperson thereupon called for nominations for the position of Custodian and Keeper of
Records aka Secretary of the CHA Board of Commissioners. A Motion was made by
Commissioner Harris and properly seconded by Commissioner Ivers to nominate Lee Chuc-Gill
for the position of Custodian and Keeper of Records, Secretary. There being no other
nomination on the slate, nominations were closed and the voting resulted in unanimous approval
for the re-election of Lee Chuc-Gill as Custodian and Keeper of Records/Secretary, Board of
Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority.
Upon Motion made and properly seconded the Minutes for Regular Meeting of May 20, 2008
were unanimously approved.
The Chairperson thereupon announced that during Closed Executive Session, Commissioners
discussed Pending, Imminent, Probable Litigation; Proposed Changes for Board
Meeting/Executive Session and Clarifications to the Administrative Plan for Housing Choice
Vouchers, Project Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs. Based on said
discussion, the Board of Commissioners recommends the adoption and approval of the
clarifications proposed to the CHA’s Administrative Plan. Upon Motion made by Commissioner
Young and seconded by Commissioner Ivers clarifications made to the CHA’s Administrative
Plan for the Housing Choice Vouchers, Project Based Vouchers and Moderate Rehabilitation
Programs dated July 15, 2008 was unanimously approved. Upon request by Chairman Nesbitt a
2

 copy of the clarifications to the Plan is attached as part of CHA’s official minutes.
Commissioner Ivers then introduced an Omnibus Motion to approve the following resolutions
for Executive Session Item 1 thru 4:
Executive Session Item 1
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-83
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 3, 2008, requesting that the Board of Commissioners
approves the Personnel Actions Report for June 2008.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Personnel Actions Report for
June 2008.

Executive Session Item 2
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-84
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 9, 2008,
entitled “Authorization to Exercise Option to Extend Legal Services Agreement
with Various Law Firms”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorized the exercise by the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee, subject to approval of the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development, of the options to extend the legal services
agreements with the law firms listed in the Attachment hereto for a one year
period or until their assigned matters are resolved.

Executive Session Item 3
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-85
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 15, 2008
titled “Amendment to Resolution No. 2003-CHA-139 for a Modification of the
Disposition Application to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”) for Land known as Robert Taylor Homes; Authorization
to Issue an Option and Negotiate a Below-Market Sale of CHA-Owned Property
located at 5120 S. Federal Street with Heir Gallery, Inc.; and Authorization to
Execute a Quit Claim Deed and all other documents necessary to implement the
foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes (1) the amendment of Board
Resolution No. 2003-CHA-139 modifying the disposition application to HUD for
Robert Taylor Homes; (2) the issuance of an Option Agreement (“Option”) for a
period not to exceed six (6) months, negotiation and below-market sale of
property at 5120 S. Federal Street and associated parking lot to Heir Gallery, Inc.;
and (3) the execution of a quit claim deed and all other documents necessary to
implement the foregoing.

Executive Session Item 4
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-86
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2008,
titled Amendment to Resolution No. 2006-CHA-72 approving the disposition and
execution of a ninety-nine (99) year ground lease for 1208-24 W. Washburne;
authorization to convey via a quitclaim deed the same CHA-owned land to RS
Retail LLC and to execute such other documents as necessary to implement the
foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the amendment of Board
3

 Resolution No. 2006-CHA-72 and authorizes the conveyance via a quit claim
deed of 1208-24 W. Washburne to RS Retail LLC, the retail developer for
ABLA/Roosevelt Square, for the fair market value price of $1,325,000.
The Motion to adopt resolutions for Executive Session Items 1 thru 4 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

The Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried and said Resolutions adopted.
Due to the departure of Committee Chair O’Keefe, Commissioner Wiggins presented the report
of the Finance and Audit Committee. Per Commissioner Wiggins, the Finance & Audit
Committee held its regular meeting on Wednesday, July 9, 2008 a 1:00 p.m. at the 60 East Van
Buren Corporate offices. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer and staff presented the Committee
with the Treasury & Cash Flow Report for the month of June 2008.
Commissioner Wiggins then introduced an Omnibus Motion for adoption of the Resolutions for
Items A1 thru A7 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Finance and
Audit Committee.
(Item A1)
The resolution for Item A1 approves contract amendment with Ernst & Young (E&Y) to exercise
the second-one year option for independent professional auditing services and to provide
additional audit procedures. During the past three years, E & Y has met its contract requirements
with CHA and has performed all tasks expected of the independent auditors. E&Y has utilized
expertise from its various audit practice to deliver key solutions to critical accounting and
financial issues on behalf of the CHA. E&Y is willing and able to provide independent
professional auditing services to the CHA for the next contract term, November 10, 2008 through
November 9, 2009 under the terms and conditions as provided in the Contract. In addition, E &
Y has agreed to perform the additional audit procedures and reviews as required by HUD for
Project Based Accounting. Based on this conversion, there are additional audit procedures and
certain reviews that must be performed. E&Y’s participation in this process is crucial, and their
knowledge of the CHA’s operations will assist them in performing these additional services.
Commissioner Mendenhall recused from voting on Item A1 only.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-87
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
memorandum dated July 9, 2008 entitled, “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO CONTRACT NUMBER 5160 WITH ERNST &
YOUNG , LLP TO (1) EXECISE THE SECOND ONE-YEAR OPTION FOR
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL AUDITING SERVICES AND (2)
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL AUDIT PROCEDURES”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 5160 (the “Contract”) with
Ernst & Young, LLP to (1) exercise the second option to extend the Contract for
the period November 10, 2008 to November 9, 2009 to provide independent
professional auditing services for an amount not-to-exceed $649,000 and (2)
amend the Contract to include additional audit procedures required due to Project
Based Accounting for an amount not-to-exceed $40,000. The total amount of
4

 Amendment No. 2 to Contract No. 5160 will be an amount not-to-exceed
$689,000.
(Item A2)
The resolution for Item A2 approves the first one-year option of Contract No. 8034 with
Mesirow Financial Investment Services to provide Fiduciary Investment Advisor Services for the
CHA’s 457(b) Tax Deferred Retirement Plan. CHA’s 457(b) tax deferred retirement plan allows
employees to save for retirement while reducing their taxable income. The Plan is 100% funded
by employees and supplements their pension plans helping them plan for retirement. The CHA
monitored Mesirow’s services as its fiduciary financial advisor during the first year to determine
the effectiveness of its services and the value added and whether it or another third party should
continue to provide these services thereafter. During the first year Mesirow ensured that CHA’s
Plan met industry benchmarks. They assisted CHA with communications with the new Plan
administrator and provided due diligence in selecting the investment plan menu for sufficient
investment options and strategies for CHA employees. CHA has been very satisfied with
Mesirow’s expert services to date.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-88
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 09, 2008
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE FIRST ONE-YEAR OPTION
OF CONTRACT NO. 8034 WITH MESIROW FINANCIAL INVESTMENT
SERVICES, INC. TO PROVIDE FIDUCIARY INVESTMENT ADVISOR
SERVICES FOR THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY’S 457(b) TAX
DEFERRED RETIREMENT PLAN”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

that the Board of Commissioners (“Board”) authorizes the Chief Executive
Officer or his designee to exercise the first one-year option of Contract No.8034
(the “Contract”) with Mesirow Financial Investment Services, Inc. (“Mesirow”)
for the period of September 1, 2008 through August 31, 2009 to continue to
provide fiduciary investment advisor services to the CHA for the 457(b) tax
deferred compensation plan. It is also recommended that the Board authorize the
CEO or his designee to exercise the second, third and fourth option years subject
to the satisfactory performance of the Contract.

(Item A3)
On June 3, 2008 pursuant to its grant application, the CHA received official notification from
HUD’s ROSS Family Homeownership Program of an award of $999,593.00 to implement the IT
Workforce Development Initiative (IT-WDI), a project which builds upon traditional workforce
development programs by combining the use of CHA facilities with resident interest in
technology-based careers. Participants will receive the following: Business skill training and
technical training; networking and training opportunities through speakers from local businesses;
mentoring opportunities and project experience, and internships or employment in computer
hardware and networking occupations or computer software and Internet programming careers.
Accordingly, the resolution for Item A3 approves acceptances of the IT-WDI Grant Award from
HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-89
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board Letter dated July 9, 2008 entitled “RECOMMENDATION TO ACCEPT A
GRANT AWARD FROM THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENTER INTO A SUB-GRANTEE
AGREEMENT WITH TEC SERVICES, INC. AND INCREASE THE FY2008
COMPREHENSIVE BUDGET”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to accept a grant award from HUD in the amount of $999,593.00,
increase the FY2008 comprehensive budget by the same amount, and enter into a
sub-grant agreement with TEC Services, Inc.

5

 (Item A4)
In 2004, the Authority initiated an Authority-wide solicitation for the supply and delivery of
office supplies. The basis for strategic sourcing was due to the desire to secure these goods at
the best price utilizing the volume created by the needs of the Authority as a whole. As the twoyear base term of the Contract concluded, the CHA considered undertaking new solicitations and
secured a short-term extension of the Contract with Warehouse Direct for two months. The CHA
ultimately determined that the exercise of the option term of the Contract was advantageous
instead of undertaking a new solicitation. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A4 approves the
one-year option of Contract No. 6019 with Warehouse Direct for supply and deliver of office
supplies.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-90
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXERCISE THE OPTION TO EXTEND
CONTRACT NO. 6019 WITH WAREHOUSE DIRECT FOR SUPPLY AND
DELIVERY OF OFFICE SUPPLIES AND TONER”,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into the one-year extension option with Warehouse Direct, for
supply and delivery of office supplies, with additional not-to-exceed funding in
the amount of $200,000.00, which results in the revised total not-to-exceed
amount under the Contract of $600,000.00.

(Item A5)
Pursuant to the Board’s Resolution approved January 18, 2005, the CHA entered into an IGA
with the Department of Fleet Management for a three-year initial term, with two three-year
renewal options. Under the terms of the IGA, Fleet provided fuel, car washes, road and towing
services for CHA owned vehicles at the Fleet rates. The CHA has closely monitored the
prevailing fuel prices in the private market and has found that the prices extended to the CHA by
Fleet remain considerably lower than those in the private market. The price of car washes
through Fleet’s vendor has remained constant and less than other local car washes, although an
annual increase is anticipated from both Fleet’s vendor and the private market, due to the
increasing cost of energy. Fleet’s increased price will, however, continue to be lower than if the
CHA procured this service from the private market. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A5
approves ratification of the first option to renew the IGA with the City Department of Fleet
Management.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-91
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2008,
entitled “Ratification of the Exercise of the First Option to Renew the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago Acting Through its
Department of Fleet Management for Fueling and Car Washes for CHA owned
vehicles.”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners ratifies the exercise of the first three-year option to
renew the Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Chicago acting through
its Department of Fleet Management for fueling and car washes for CHA vehicles
for the period of January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010 for an amount notto-exceed $190,212.00.

(Item A6)
In April 2008, a Request for Proposal was advertised in area newspapers and on the CHA
website for security services at various CHA administrative offices. The CHA also directly
solicited forty-one vendors. Of the nine proposals received one respondent was deemed nonresponsive.
After the scoring was totaled, a competitive range was set by the Contracting
Officer and six vendors were within the competitive range. The second evaluation was based on
oral presentations and at the end of oral presentations all vendors submitted best and final offers.
After review of the proposals and evaluations, it was determined that the proposal of Moore
Security Services, Inc. would be the most advantageous to the CHA. Accordingly, the resolution
for Item A6 approves award of contract to Moore Security Services for security services at the

6

 following CHA administrative locations: 60 E. Van Buren, 3333 W. Arthington, 1550 W. 88th
Street, 2325 S. Federal, 4859 S. Wabash, and 1749 E. 75th.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-92
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed Board Letter dated July 9, entitled
“Authorization To Execute A Contract With Moore Security Services, Inc. For
Security Services At Various CHA Administrative Locations”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to enter into a contract with Moore Security Services, Inc. for the
provision of security services at various CHA administrative locations for a
twenty-four (24) month base term in an amount not-to-exceed $1,350,000.00 with
one (1) one-year extension option.

(Item A7)
The CHA advertised a Request For Proposal for Janitorial Services to be provided at two
Voucher Program buildings, and the CHA’s Warehouse. The Voucher Program buildings are
located at 1550 W. 88th Street, and 1741-1749 East 75th Street, while the Warehouse is located at
2325 S. Federal Street. The RFP was advertised in area newspapers and on CHA’s website. The
CHA also directly solicited seventy vendors and 17 Assist Agencies as well. After submission of
best and final offers from the finalist vendors, based upon favorable evaluation scoring and the
competitive pricing its proposal, FYI & Associates was determined to be the most responsive,
responsible respondent at the level of the firm fixed rates per square foot offered for the locations
covered under the RFP. Accordingly, the resolution for Item A7 approves award of contract to
FYI & Associates for janitorial services at various CHA locations.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-93
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH FYI &
ASSOCIATES FOR JANITORIAL SERVICES AT CHA LOCATIONS”
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief
Executive Officer or his designee to enter into a contract with FYI & Associates
for janitorial services at various CHA locations for a base term of two (2) years in
an amount not-to-exceed $225,240.00, with a one (1) year option term.

The Omnibus Motion to adopt resolutions for Items A1 thru A7 was seconded by
Commissioner Harris and the voting were as follows:
Ayes:

Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall (Recused from voting on Item A1 only)
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins

Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Finance & Audit Committee report was also accepted in total.
Commissioner Ponce, Chairperson of the Operations and Facilities Committee, then presented
his monthly report. Per Commissioner Ponce, the Operations and Facilities Committee held its
regular meeting on Wednesday, July 9, 2008 at approximately 1:45 p.m. at the 60 East Van
Buren Corporate offices. Nonyne Smith, Acting Director of the Department of Procurement &
Contracts, and staff presented the Committee with an update on MBE/WBE/Section 3.

7

 Commissioner Ponce advised the Chair that no resolutions were presented to the Operations
Committee.
Commissioner Young, Chairperson of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her
monthly report. Per Commissioner Young, the Tenant Services Committee meeting was held on
Wednesday, July 9, 2008 at approximately 2:25 p.m. at the 60 East Van Buren Corporate
Offices. Linda Kaiser, Managing Director of Resident Services, and Nan McKay from Nan
McKay & Associates presented the Committee with an update on the HCV Program Bifurcation.
Commissioner Young then introduced an Omnibus Motion for the adoption of Resolutions for
Items C1 thru C 3 discussed, voted and recommended for Board approval by the Tenant Services
Committee.
(Item C1)
Since September 2006, Nan McKay & Associates (NMA) has been involved in the assessment of
the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP), conducted best practices research; and
provided procurement and negotiations support and guidance to successfully facilitate the CHA
transition from a 10-year, one vendor operating model with no satellite offices to a two vendor
operating model with three full service HCVP satellite offices. As expected, with a transition of
this magnitude, work still needs to be completed in the area of program operations, business
systems and ensuring that the CHA can adequately manage and monitor two vendors and two
sub-contractors with major administrative responsibilities. By amending NMA’s contract, CHA
expects to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the program that will translate into
continuous learning for CHA HCVP staff and continuous improvement in customer service
offered to HCVP stakeholders. Accordingly, the resolution for Item C1 approves amendment to
Contract No. 6045 with Nan MacKay & Associates for consulting services for CHA’s HCV
program.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-94
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated July 9, 2008,
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND CONTRACT NO. 6045 WITH NAN
MCKAY & ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR CONSULTING SERVICES”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
authorized designee(s) to amend and extend Contract No. 6045 with Nan McKay
& Associates, Inc. to provide consulting services for CHA’s Section 8 Housing
Choice Voucher Program (“HCVP”) for an additional twenty (20) month term, in
an amount not to exceed $1,723,255.80, with no option.

(Item C2)
The resolution for Item C2 approves a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (HAP Contract)
with Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance for
twenty-six family units at the Rosa Parks Apartments. Rosa Parks Apartments will consist of 94
affordable rental units for families within eight newly constructed buildings located on nine
scattered sites in the Humboldt Park community on Chicago’s near northwest side. The
development will contain 8 one-bedroom units, 36 two-bedroom units, 45 three-bedroom units
and 5 four-bedroom units. The building types include four six-flats, one 12-flat, one 15-flat, one
16 flat and a 27 unit four-story elevator building. Twenty-six of the units will receive Projectbased Voucher assistance and priority will be given to families on the CHA/CHAC waiting list.
The total development cost for this project will be approximately $27,238,278 and will be funded
by mix of public and private sources. The only cost to CHA toward this development will be the
project-based rental subsidy.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-95
WHEREAS: the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated July 9, 2008 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Enter into an
Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance Payment Contract (AHAP) to
provide Project-Based Voucher assistance to the Rosa Parks Apartments
affordable housing development for 26 family units and 2.) Execute all other
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

8

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer, or his
designee to 1.) Enter into an Agreement to enter into a Housing Assistance
Payment Contract (AHAP) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance to the
Rosa Parks Apartments affordable housing development for 26 family units and
2.) Execute all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement
the foregoing.

(Item C3)
The resolution for Item C3 approves the recommendation of the Regional Housing Authority
Initiative to provide project Based Voucher Assistance to the G&A Residence at Spaulding
Affordable Housing Development for nine family units. Spaulding Apartments is a recently
constructed 36 unit Low Income Tax Credit project located at 1750 N. Spaulding in the Logan
Square neighborhood and consists of 20 two-bedroom units and 16 three-bedroom units.
Spaulding Apartments is bounded on the east by the Chicago River and Milwaukee Avenue, one
of the city’s main commercial thoroughfares, runs diagonally through the neighborhood. There
are considerable employment opportunities in the area, including several retail shops, restaurant
and banks plus a Walmart, Home Depot and Target store, all within 1.5 miles. There are three
CTA bus routes within 3 blocks of the building including the Kedzie Avenue, North Avenue and
Armitage Avenue lines. The Healy Metra train station, approximately 1.2 mile from the
building, travels to downtown Chicago and also to Lake Forest, Morton Grove, Libertyville and
Fox Lake and the CTA blue line L station, which is a mile from the building, is easily accessible
via the Kedzie Avenue bus. The owner is Spaulding Partners L.P. The limited tax credit equity
partner is Alliant Asset Management Company and the principals of the general partner are
George and Agatha Ardelean, the owners of G&A Construction. Since 1996, G&A Construction
has developed 11 housing projects, creating 573 affordable units.
RESOLUTION NO. 2008-CHA-96
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the
Board letter dated July 9, 2008 entitled “Authorization to 1.) Approve the
recommendation of the Regional Housing Initiative (RHI) to provide ProjectBased Voucher assistance to the G&A Residence at Spaulding affordable housing
development for 9 family units, and 2.) Execute all documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to 1.) Approve the recommendation of the Regional Housing Initiative
(RHI) to provide Project-Based Voucher assistance to the G&A Residence at
Spaulding affordable housing development for 9 family units, and 2.) Execute all
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items C1 thru C3 was seconded by Commissioner Amey and
the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Martin Nesbitt
Hallie Amey
Dr. Mildred Harris
Michael Ivers
Samuel Mendenhall
Carlos Ponce
Sandra Young
Mary Wiggins
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, the Chairperson thereupon declared said Motion carried
and said resolutions adopted. The Tenant Services Committee report was also accepted in total.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made,
seconded and carried, the meeting of the Board of Commissioners was adjourned.

9

 s/b: Martin Nesbitt
Chairperson

s/b: Lee Gill, Custodian and
Keeper of Records

10

