MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING
OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
September 18, 2018
The Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority held its Regular Meeting of the Board of
Commissioners on Tuesday, September 18, 2018, at approximately 10:25 a.m. at the Charles A. Hayes
Family Investment Center, located at 4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, IL.
Chairman Hooker then called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as
follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
James Matanky
Cristina Matos
Debra Parker
Francine Washington
Absent:

Bill Thanoukos

Also present were Eugene Jones, Chief Executive Officer; James Bebley, Chief Legal Officer; Chicago
Housing Authority staff members and the General Public.
There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Chairman Hooker then introduced newly appointed Commissioner James Matanky. Commissioner
Matanky’s appointment was confirmed by City Council on June 27, 2018, and will expire in July 2021.
Commissioner Matanky is the Chief Executive Officer of Matanky Realty Group, Inc. He also serves as
the North American Chair of the International Council of Shopping Centers’ Ambassador Program. Mr.
Matanky has worked with the City of Chicago as a mentor for retail redevelopment and served on the
Chicago Building Departments Commissioner’s advisory panel. Commissioner Matanky also serves on
the Board of Governors of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and has been honored as a recipient of
the Chicago Neighborhood Developer of the Year Award multiple times for his work in Chicago’s
underserved communities. Commissioner Matanky graduated with honors from the University of
Illinois with degrees in finance, accounting and law.
Commissioner Matanky was welcomed by the Commissioners and public with a warm round of applause.
Craig Chico, Chairman of the Finance & Audit committee, then presented his report. Per Commissioner
Chico, the Finance & Audit Committee held its regular meeting at 8:30 a.m. today at the Charles A.
Hayes Family Investment Center. Commissioner Chico chaired the meeting and the following committee
members were present as well: Commissioners Harte, Matos and Washington. Present also but not
1

 counted for the quorum were Chairman John Hooker, Commissioners Brewer and Parker. Committee
members then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the following three items.
On behalf of the Finance & Audit Committee, Committee Chairman Chico presented an Omnibus Motion
for the approval of Items No. 1 through 3.
(Item 1)
The resolution for Item 1 approves the FY2019 Moving to Work (MTW) Annual Plan and authorizes
CHA to submit the FY2019 MTW Annual Plan to HUD. As part of the MTW Agreement, CHA is
required to submit an Annual Plan to HUD, due 75 days prior to the start of CHA’s fiscal year. The MTW
Annual Plan provides required information on planned operations and activities for the fiscal year,
including proposed new MTW activities that require HUD approval. A 30-day public comment period
was held. Three public comment hearings were held during the public comment period. Announcements
for the public comment process appeared on CHA’s website and in local newspapers. CHA also
distributed resident notices across public housing properties and sent an email notification to HCV
residents. During the public comment period, residents and the general public were able to submit
comments orally and in writing regarding the proposed FY2019 MTW Annual Plan. Prior to finalizing
the proposed FY2019 MTW Annual Plan, CHA gave consideration to comments received during the
public comment period. The final plan amendment will be posted on CHA’s website after submission to
HUD.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-64
WHEREAS, The Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 18, 2018
requesting approval of the Proposed FY2019 MTW Annual Plan and authorization to
submit the Proposed FY2019 MTW Annual Plan to HUD attached hereto;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

The Board of Commissioners hereby approves the Proposed FY2019 Moving to Work
Annual Plan and grants authorization to the Chief Executive Officer, the Board
Chairperson, or their designee to make any final updates as deemed necessary;

THAT,

This approval of the Proposed FY2019 MTW Annual Plan supersedes any and all
conflicting language found in prior CHA MTW Annual Plans;

THAT,

The Board of Commissioners grants authorization to submit the Proposed FY2019 MTW
Annual Plan to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development upon Board
approval. Such approval shall constitute conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of
any and all such changes.

(Item 2)
The resolution for Item 2 approves the purchase of insurance coverage through its insurance broker of
record, Arthur J. Gallagher & Company (AJG), for an aggregate not-to-exceed amount of $1,539,065 for
one-year policy terms effective from October 1, 2018, through September 30, 2019, to provide Property
and Management Liability coverage. The broker of record approached 35 insurers to place Commercial
Property and Management Liability coverages.
2

 RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-65
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled RECOMMENDATION TO PURCHASE
PROPERTY AND MANAGEMENT LIABILITY INSURANCE COVERAGE.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
purchase Property and Management Liability Insurance Coverage through its insurance
broker of record, Arthur J. Gallagher & Company (“AJG”), for a period of one (1) year,
beginning October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019, in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,539,065.
This award is not subject to the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance
requirements.

(Item 3)
In September 2016, the Board of Commissioners authorized the Chief Executive Officer to participate
on a contract that the New York Housing Authority (NYCHA) had executed with the Gordian Group to
provide professional services and to manage the Section 3 JOC Mentoring Program. This Program was
leveraged by the Investment and Procurement Divisions to sponsor an Internal and External financial
support pilot initiative. Currently, CHA has secured agreements with three financial institutions to
participate in this Program for the external credit support component of the Program. The resolution for
Item 3 approves a programmatic extension and expansion for the Revolving Loan Fund Pilot Program
from September 20, 2018, through December 31, 2020. The proposed extension will continue to provide
credit support to revolving bank lines of credit to Section 3 businesses, including both Job Order
Contracting (JOC) and non-JOC vendors. Each Section 3 contractor desiring to participate in the pilot
line of credit program will be required to submit a loan application and all required financial
documentation to qualify per bank underwriting guidelines. Additionally, all contract receivables shall
be assigned to the Bank/CHA to protect against risk(s) of default.
Commissioner Parker abstained from voting on Item No. 3.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018 – CHA– 66
WHEREAS, In September 2016, The Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) Board of Commissioners
authorized the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to establish a pilot one-year
revolving loan fund and provide credit support totaling $2,500,000 to support Section 3
businesses that are participating in the Job Order Contracting (JOC) Mentoring Program;
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled “Authorization to Extend and Expand External
Revolving Loan Fund Pilot Program to Provide Credit Support to Section 3 Businesses”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:

3

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
expand the external revolving loan fund pilot program to provide credit support to Section
3 businesses, including expansion of participant eligibility to qualified JOC and Non-JOC
Section 3 businesses, and to extend the duration of the external revolving loan fund pilot
program from September 20, 2018 through December 31, 2020.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 1 through 3 was seconded by Commissioner Brewer and the
voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
James Matanky
Cristina Matos
Debra Parker (abstained from voting on Item 3 only)
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Meghan Harte, Chairwoman of the Tenant Services Committee, then presented her report. Per
Commissioner Harte, the Tenant Services Committee held its regular meeting at approximately 9:30 a.m.
today at the Charles A. Hayes Family Investment Center. Commissioner Harte chaired the meeting and
the following committee members were present as well: Commissioners Brewer, Harris, Parker and
Washington. Present also but not counted for the quorum were Chairman John Hooker, Commissioners
Chico, Matos and Matanky. Committee members then discussed, voted and recommended for approval
the following two items.
On behalf of the Tenant Services Committee, Committee Chair Harte presented an Omnibus Motion for
the approval of Items No. 4 and 5.
(Item 4)
The resolution for Item 4 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago
Department of Family & Support Services (DFSS) for a two-year base term from January 1, 2019,
through December 31, 2020, to provide support services for CHA households in an amount not to
exceed $3,164,000.00. Since 2008, CHA has partnered with DFSS to provide various support services
for CHA households. CHA and DFSS will continue to collaborate to provide services in the areas of
early childhood development, out-of-school time for youth, senior citizen support, family programming
and homelessness prevention. During the term of the current IGA up to the second quarter, over 3,000
participants and 115 families have received services.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-67
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled “Authorization to Execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family & Support Services”.
4

 THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Department of Family &
Support Services for a two-year base term from January 1, 2019 through December 31,
2020, to provide support services for Chicago Housing Authority households in an amount
not to exceed $3,164,000.00.

(Item 5)
The resolution for Item 5 approves an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the Chicago Park
District (CPD) for a one-year base term from January 1, 2019, through December 31, 2019, to provide
year-round park district programs for Chicago Housing Authority youth residents and tenants in an
amount not to exceed $550,000. Since 2002, CHA and CPD have collaborated to provide year-round
park district programs for CHA youth who otherwise may not be able to participate due to cost. CPD
programs provide youth with age-appropriate activities, while assisting working parents by offering safe
and constructive programs for children during out-of-school time. This IGA offers reduced program fees
for CHA youth for year-round voucher programs (e.g., Park Kids, Summer Camp, Vacation Camps, etc.)
and the remaining program fees are split between CHA and CPD. CHA and CPD will continue to
collaborate to bring supplemental programming to Park Districts near CHA developments (e.g., Windy
City Hoops, Counselor in Training Program, Junior Bears football, etc.).
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-68
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled “Authorization to Execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement with the Chicago Park District”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Park District for a one-year
base term from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 to provide year-round park
district programs for Chicago Housing Authority youth residents and tenants in an amount
not to exceed $550,000.

The Motion to adopt resolutions for Items 4 and 5 was seconded by Commissioner Harris and the voting
was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
James Matanky
Cristina Matos
Debra Parker
Francine Washington
5

 Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Matthew Brewer, Chairman of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, then presented his
report. Per Commissioner Brewer, the Real Estate Operations Development Committee held its monthly
meeting earlier today. Commissioner Brewer chaired the meeting and the following committee members
were present as well: Commissioners Chico, Harris, Matos and Matanky. Although Chairman Hooker,
and Commissioners Harte, Parker and Washington were also present, they were not counted toward the
quorum. Committee member then discussed, voted and recommended for approval the six items
appearing on the agenda.
On behalf of the Real Estate Operations Development committee, Commissioner Brewer presented an
Omnibus Motion for approval of Item No. 6, Amended Item No. 7 and Items No. 9 through 12.
(Item 6)
The Capital Construction Department oversees thirty-six Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ)
Authority-Wide Architectural and Engineering contracts that provide architectural and engineering
services in connection with modernization, rehabilitation and capital maintenance at CHA properties as
part of the Architectural/Engineering IDIQ Program. In February 2017, the Board of Commissioners
authorized and approved the original program’s funding and the award of thirty-nine contracts which
totaled $35,000,000.00. This Program was for a two-year base period, with the possibility of extending
these services for two option years, if needed. This program and its associated contracts are currently in
its initial two-year base term which expires on April 30, 2019. However, the Program has issued task
orders at a faster rate and higher value than originally anticipated in order to meet various project
milestones and deadlines. This has resulted in the Program’s funding being expended much faster than
originally anticipated. It has been determined that an increase of an amount not-to-exceed
$10,000,000.00 will need to be added to the Program’s Reserve Capacity to enable it to fully fund task
orders already in the pipeline or contemplated. Accordingly, the resolution for Item No. 6 authorizes the
addition of an amount not-to-exceed $10,000,000.00 to the reserve capacity of the IDIQ Architectural
and Engineering Program of the Capital Construction Department. The new aggregate not-to-exceed
value of the Program will be $45,000,000.00. This reserve capacity will be distributed to individual
contracts, at the determination of the Contracting Officer, as IDIQ firms are awarded task orders with an
aggregate total in excess of the value of their contract. This distribution will be done through the
established process for amending contract values.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-69
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 18, 2018
entitled “Authorization to Increase the Reserve Capacity Funding for the Indefinite
Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Architectural and Engineering Program of the
Capital Construction Department”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE CHICAGO
HOUSING AUTHORITY:

6

 THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
authorize the addition of an amount not-to-exceed $10,000,000.00 to the funding reserve
capacity for the Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity Architectural and Engineering
Program of the Capital Construction Department. This additional reserve capacity is to be
reserved for allocation among the firms in the Program at the determination of the
Contracting Officer. The new total aggregate amount of the IDIQ contracts and the
reserve capacity is not-to-exceed $45,000,000.00.
The task orders issued under the Program are subject to each Contractor’s compliance
with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 and insurance requirements.

(Amended Item 7)
The resolution for Item 7 authorizes the Chief Executive Officer to commit CHA funds not to exceed
$24,800,000 for the redevelopment and remediation activities for Southbridge Phases 1A and 1B
(formerly part of Harold Ickes Homes); submit a Project-Based Voucher (PBV) Rental Assistance
Demonstration (RAD) Financing Plan to HUD and enter into a RAD Conversion Commitment; execute
PBV RAD Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) Contracts for up to 68 RAD units and execute such
other documents as may be required for the financing and operation of Southbridge Phases 1A and 1B.
The Ickes development was originally situated on approximately 18 acres within the near south side
community area of the city of Chicago and consisted of eleven buildings with 1006 total units. The
demolition of all buildings was completed in 2010. The Board and HUD previously approved
disposition, by land exchange for a track and field for Jones College Prep H.S. The remaining Ickes
revitalization site is situated on approximately 11.30 acres and is bounded by 22nd Street (North), State
Street (East), 25th Street (South), and Dearborn Street (West). The development site is very
conveniently located at a crossroads of many transportation opportunities. The proposed redevelopment
plan includes approximately 877 new residential units including 244 units for CHA residents and up to
60,000 SF of planned commercial/retail space. The combined Phase 1A and Phase 1B will consist of a
total of 206 units including 68 RAD PBV units 26 affordable units and 112 market rate units. A joint
venture consisting of The Community Builders (TCB) and McCaffery Interests (MI), LLC, was selected
as the development team and approved by the CHA Board in June 2015 for the revitalization of the
Harold Ickes Homes. Ickes Master Developer JV LLC entered into a Master Development Agreement
with CHA in June 2016. The not-to-exceed total CHA funding of $24,800,000 will provide funds for
project redevelopment activities, including remediation. The total estimated project budget of
$51,401,990 for Phase 1A covers the new construction of one mixed-use building and the infrastructure
for Block B. The $41,586,773 total estimated project budget for Phase 1B covers the new construction
of one mixed-use building. CHA plans to provide approximately $11,400,000 for the project budget in
Phase 1A. CHA plans to provide approximately $11,100, 000 for Phase 1B. The loan amounts average
to $330,882 per unit. CHA also plans to fund an amount not to exceed $2,300,000 for remediation and
other required CHA redevelopment activities. Residents will continue to pay 30% of their income
towards rent.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-70
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled “Authorization to 1) Commit Chicago Housing
Authority Funds Not To Exceed $24,800,000 for the redevelopment and remediation
activities for Southbridge Phases 1A and 1B (formerly Harold Ickes Homes); 2) Submit a
Project-Based Voucher (PBV) Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Financing Plan
7

 to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and enter into a
RAD Conversion Commitment; 3) Execute PBV RAD Housing Assistance Payment
Contracts for up to 68 RAD units and execute such other documents as may be required
for the financing and operation of Southbridge Phases 1A and 1B; and 4) Execute and
deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to: 1)
Commit Chicago Housing Authority Funds Not To Exceed $24,800,000 for the
redevelopment and remediation activities for Southbridge Phases 1A and 1B (formerly
Harold Ickes Homes); 2) Submit a Project-Based Voucher (PBV) Rental Assistance
Demonstration (RAD) Financing Plan to the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development and enter into a RAD Conversion Commitment; 3) Execute a PBV
RAD Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) Contract for up to 68 RAD units and execute
such other documents as may be required for the financing and operation of Southbridge
Phases 1A and 1B; and 4) Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/Section 3 Hiring and Subcontracting and insurance requirements.

(Item 8 - This number not used.)
(Item 9)
The resolution for Item No. 9 authorizes the CEO to increase the option term compensation amount in
the Service Agreement between the CHA and the Gordian Group through its participation on the New
York City Housing Authority agreement with the Gordian Group, to continue to implement, manage,
and grow the Section 3 Job Order Contracting (JOC) Mentoring Program for the one option year in an
aggregate amount not-to-exceed $3,090,000 expiring September 29, 2019. When CHA initially
contracted with the Gordian Group to facilitate the Section 3 JOC program the goal was to execute
$30,000,000 of construction task orders over the 2 ½ year base contract period. The CHA has obtained
additional Board approval to amend the Service Agreement with the Gordian Group for a current
contract value of $7,150,000 so as to execute up to $90,000,000 in task orders within the base term. The
plan is to continue to grow the program over the next year to meet the needs of the CHA and the
capacity of the 117 participating Section 3 contractors. The requested increase to the option term
compensation amount with The Gordian Group is intended to support the continued growth of the
program to facilitate a projected task order value of up to $60,000,000 through September 2019.
Commissioner Parker abstained from voting on Item No. 9.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-71
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled: AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE
OPTION TERM COMPENSATION AMOUNT IN THE SERVICE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY (CHA) AND THE GORDIAN
8

 GROUP THROUGH ITS PARTICIPATION ON THE NEW YORK CITY HOUSING
AUTHORITY AGREEMENT WITH THE GORDIAN GROUP TO PROVIDE
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES TO MANAGE SECTION 3 JOB ORDER
CONTRACTING (JOC) MENTORING PROGRAM.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners (Board) of the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) authorizes
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to increase the option term compensation
amount in the Service Agreement between the CHA and The Gordian Group through its
participation on the New York City Housing Authority’s agreement with The Gordian
Group to continue to implement, manage, and grow the Section 3 Job Order Contracting
(JOC) Mentoring Program for the one (1) option year term in an amount not-to-exceed
$3,090,000, expiring September 29, 2019.
This contract amendment is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE/ Section 3 hiring and insurance requirements.

(Item 10)
The resolution for Item 10 authorizes the CEO to proceed with the RAD application process and utilize
transfer of assistance from Lathrop Homes to Parkside 4 Phase 2 to be located generally at 551 W. Elm
Street. The RAD project-based voucher (PBV) funding at the property will allow for flexibility to
leverage financing for property improvements as needs arise. Parkside 4 Phase 2 is a planned mixedincome, new construction CHA HOPE VI development that is the final phase of the Cabrini-Green
Extension North. It is anticipated that 1 one-bedroom, 41 three- and 12 four-bedroom units will be
reserved for CHA families. The 54 units reserved for CHA families will be interspersed among the
rental phase of development, and amongst the for-sale townhome component of the development. The
property is in both a Gautreaux Limited Area and CHA Mobility Area. An estimated $21 million in
CHA MTW funds is budgeted for this project for construction and environmental remediation. Upon
HUD’s approval of the RAD application with a RAD award, a separate financing plan will be submitted
for Board approval that summarizes all sources of financing and the associated development costs.
Holsten Development Corporation and Cabrini Green LAC Development Corporation are the developers
for Parkside 4 Phase 2.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-72
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 requesting authorization to proceed with the RAD
application process for Parkside 4 Phase 2 utilizing transfer of assistance under the Rental
Assistance Demonstration Program as well as execute and deliver such documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Chief Executive Officer or his designee is authorized to proceed with the RAD
application process and utilize transfer of assistance from Lathrop Homes to Parkside 4
Phase 2 to be located generally at 551 W. Elm Street.
9

 (Item 11)
The resolution for Item 11 authorizes the CEO or his designee to execute an Agreement to Enter into a
Housing Assistance Payments (AHAP) contracts and Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) contracts for
the Property Rental Assistance (PRA) program for 114 subsidized units at Maple Pointe Apartments,
and 45 subsides at New City Apartments. Maple Pointe Apartments is a 343-unit, 20-story residential
building located at 150 West Maple Street in Chicago’s Gold Coast, in a General community and is
within one block of an Opportunity area. The property will offer inter-generational affordable housing in
a thriving residential community. Maple Pointe contains 342 one-bedroom units and 1 two-bedroom
unit. Of the 342 total units, a minimum of 18 units will be accessible, 52 units will be adaptable, and 7
units will be available for persons who are audio or visually impaired. PRA will assist 114 one-bedroom
units with no age restriction. Households will come from the CHA wait list. An additional 111-units
benefit from HUD-funded, Project-Based Section 8 and provide affordable housing in which the head of
household is over the age of 62. Standard IL Portfolio Venture LP and Indigo Real Estate Services are
the property managers for Maple Points Apartments. New City Apartments is a new construction
residential building located at 1457 North Halsted in the Near North Side community and is within one
block of an Opportunity area. New City Apartments is a 60-unit, 5-story, elevator building containing
28 one-bedroom units and 32 two-bedroom units. Out of the 60 total units, 6 units will be accessible,
12 units will be adaptable, and 2 units will be available for persons who are audio or visually impaired.
PRA will assist 45 units. Tenants will come from CHA wait list with priority for Cabrini Right of
Return families. Supportive services will be provided by A Safe Haven Foundation. The property
owner/management team for New City Apartments are Celadon-KMA Holdings XII, LLC and 5T
Management Inc.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-73
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the Chicago Housing Authority has reviewed the Board
Letter dated September 18, 2018 entitled “Authorization to execute 1) an Agreement to
Enter into Housing Assistance Payments contracts and Housing Assistance Payments
contracts for Property Rental Assistance at A) Maple Pointe Apartments, and B) New
City Apartments; and 2) all other documents as may be necessary or appropriate to
implement the foregoing.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to
execute 1) an Agreement to Enter into Housing Assistance Payments contracts and
Housing Assistance Payments contracts for Property Rental Assistance at A) Maple
Pointe Apartments, and B) New City Apartments; and 2) all other documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

(Item 12)
The resolution for Item No. 12 authorizes the CEO to enter onto a long-term lease agreement with the
Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago (BGCC) for property located at 2915 N. Leavitt, Chicago, Illinois;
negotiate rent and other terms with a lease term of one year with four consecutive one-year options; and
execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate
to implement the foregoing. The lease terms and conditions are subject to HUD approval. BGCC is a
not-for profit organization that provides youth programs in areas of the City that need safe havens for
10

 children. BGCC has worked with the CHA for over 50 years at properties such as Henry Horner, Robert
Taylor, and Washington Park. BGCC programs in the Lathrop Community will focus on the afterschool hours. In the Lathrop Homes community, youth programs are in dire need in order to foster the
positive behavior of its youth. The BGCC’s continued use of the Boys and Girls Club facility will ensure
the delivery of these much-needed summer and after-school programs. The BGCC will provide an
annual report that will highlight the number of participants and success of their programs. The annual
report will be provided to the CHA on an annual basis or upon request.
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-CHA-74
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners have reviewed Board Letter dated September 18, 2018,
entitled “Authorization to 1) Request approval from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development to enter onto a long-term lease agreement with the
Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago for property located at 2915 N. Leavitt, Chicago,
Illinois; (2) Negotiate rent and other terms with a lease term of one (1) year with four (4)
consecutive one-year options; and 3) Execute and deliver such other documents and
perform such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to implement the foregoing”.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY:
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to (1)
Request approval from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
to enter onto a long-term lease agreement with the Boys and Girls Clubs of Chicago for
property located at 2915 N. Leavitt, Chicago, Illinois; (2) Negotiate rent and other terms
with a lease term of one (1) year with four (4) consecutive one-year options; and 3)
Execute and deliver such other documents and perform such actions as may be necessary
or appropriate to implement the foregoing.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Items 6, 7 and 9 through 12 was seconded by Commissioner
Matanky and the voting was as follows:
Ayes:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
Cristina Matos
James Matanky
Debra Parker (abstained from voting on Item 9 only)
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolutions adopted.
Chairman Hooker then invited residents and the public at large to address the Board.
Immediately following Public Participation and upon Motion made by Chairman Hooker and properly
seconded by Commissioner Harte the Commissioners adjourned to Closed Session. Chairman Hooker
11

 announced that pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, the Board would adjourn for
approximately 30 minutes to discuss personnel related matters; purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property; pending, probable or imminent litigation; review of closed meeting minutes and audit reviews.
Following Closed Session, Commissioners reconvened in Open Session.
Chairman Hooker called the meeting to order and upon roll call those present and absent were as follows:
Present:

Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
James Matanky
Cristina Matos
Debra Parker
Francine Washington

Absent:

Bill Thanoukos

There being a quorum present, the meeting duly convened and business was transacted as follows:
Upon motion made and properly seconded the minutes for the Regular and Closed Meetings of June 19th
and July 17th, 2018 were unanimously approved as submitted.
The Chairman then announced that during Closed Session Commissioners discussed Items No. 13 and
14 on the Agenda. The Chairman continued by stating that after further review and discussion of Item
No. 13, Item 13 will be deferred and will be presented at the October meeting, pending receipt of
information requested by Commissioners.
(Item 13 - This item was deferred)
A Motion to approve Item 14 was then presented by Commissioner Matanky.
(Item 14)
RESOLUTION NO. 2018–CHA-75
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated September 18, 2018,
entitled “Approval of Personnel Actions”:
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE
CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT,

the Board of Commissioners hereby approves the requested personnel actions.

The Motion to adopt the resolutions for Item 14 was seconded by Commissioner Matos and the voting
was as follows:
Present:
Matthew Brewer
Craig Chico
12

 Dr. Mildred Harris
Meghan Harte
John Hooker
James Matanky
Cristina Matos
Debra Parker
Francine Washington
Nays:

None

There being no questions or discussion, Chairman Hooker thereupon declared said Motion carried and
said resolution adopted.
There being no further business to come before the Commissioners, upon Motion made by Commissioner
Harris and seconded by Commissioner Matanky, the Regular board meeting of September 18, 2018, was
adjourned.

___________________________
Lee Chuc-Gill, Secretary
Custodian and Keeper of Records

13

 