ITEM NO. B2

April 14, 2010

AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH KNICKERBOCKER
ROOFING AND PAVING CO., INC. FOR ROOF REPLACEMENT WORK
AT WENTWORTH ANNEX (IL2-032)

To the Honorable Board of Commissioners:
RECOMMENDATION
It is recommended that the Board of Commissioners authorize the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Knickerbocker Roofing and Paving Co., Inc. in the amount of
$441,689.00 for the roof replacement work at Wentworth Annex (IL2–032). This work will be
performed on fifty-eight (58) units located across sixteen (16) buildings. It is to be completed
within one hundred five (105) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.
RECOMMENDATION SUMMARY
Funding: General Fund and Non-Federal funds
Vendor:

Contract Type:
Contract Amount:
Contract Time:

Knickerbocker Roofing and Paving Co., Inc.
16581 So. Lathrop Ave.
Harvey, IL 60426
Construction
$441,689.00
One hundred five (105) calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice
to Proceed

M/W/DBE Participation:
Direct
MBE 30 % WBE
Indirect MBE
% WBE
Waiver
(Yes/No)
Section 3:
Hiring # 1

Subcontracting $

% DBE
% DBE

%
%

Other Economic Opportunities $

GENERAL BACKGROUND
In Fall 2009, as part of the Capital Improvement Program, the Chicago Housing Authority
(CHA) executed Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity Task Orders with two (2) general
contractors for the full rehabilitation of selected duplex units at Wentworth Annex (IL2-032).
The solicitations were to modernize fourteen (14) units of low-income public housing at the 42nd
and Root Street properties known as Wentworth Gardens Annex.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 Both general contractors proceeded with the modernization according to their respective
schedules until issues arose regarding the repair and replacement of portions of continuous roofs
covering the various buildings housing the units, some of which are not owned by the CHA. The
roof repairs to be performed by the two (2) general contractors were to be exclusively performed
over units owned by the CHA. However, the CHA’s units are interspersed with units under
private ownership,
Subsequently, the two (2) general contractors were informed by the roofing manufacturer that the
roof repair work would not meet the warranty requirements of the CHA’s technical
specifications if they did not repair the entire roofs of each affected building (including the
portions of the contiguous roofs over the interspersed units not owned by the CHA). In a joint
meeting, the CHA, the Homeowners Association, residents and the Alderman agreed that the
roofs for all sixteen (16) buildings (covering CHA and non-CHA units) should be replaced
regardless of whether they are CHA or privately owned. Non-Federal funding will be tapped for
the roof work to be performed over the privately owned units.
PROCUREMENT HISTORY
Due to exigent circumstances to minimize delays and damage from roof leaks to the units
undergoing renovation, the Capital Construction Department (CCD) requested cost proposals for
a separate contract for roof replacements from several roofing contractor specialists the CHA has
done business with in the past. CCD received two (2) proposals, with the proposal from
Knickerbocker Roofing and Paving Co., Inc. (Knickerbocker) being significantly less than the
other proposal to do all of the work for the roof repairs. CCD staff then negotiated with
Knickerbocker to arrive at a final cost proposal of $441,689.00, which is less than the
independent cost estimate for the roof repairs. This amount covers the cost to replace the roofs
over the multiple CHA owned locations in Wentworth Annex and the contiguous privately
owned units.
The cost will be partially offset by removing the roof work from the two (2) general contractors’
contracts through deductive change orders, which amount would then be applied to the new
contract with Knickerbocker. Non-federal funds will initially be used to fund the roof
replacements over the privately owned units. However, CCD staff will work with the Alderman
and the City of Chicago to seek reimbursement for this portion of the work from City funds.
Based on the forgoing, it is in the CHA’s best interest that the Board of Commissioners authorize
the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to execute a contract with Knickerbocker Roofing
and Paving Co., Inc. in the amount of $441,689.00 for the roof replacement work at Wentworth
Annex (IL2–032). This work will be performed for fifty-eight (58) units located across sixteen
(16) buildings. It is to be completed within one hundred five (105) calendar days from the date
set forth in the Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s MBE/WBE/DBE, Section
3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance requirements.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 RESOLUTION NO. 2010-CHA-43
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has reviewed the Board Letter dated April 14, 2010
entitled “AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH
KNICKERBOCKER ROOFING AND PAVING CO., INC. FOR ROOF
REPLACEMENT WORK AT WENTWORTH ANNEX (IL2-032)”;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO HOUSING AUTHORITY
THAT

that the Board of Commissioners authorizes the Chief Executive Officer or his
designee to execute a contract with Knickerbocker Roofing and Paving Co., Inc.
in the amount of $441,689.00 for the roof replacement work at Wentworth Annex
(IL2–032). This work will be performed for fifty-eight (58) units located across
sixteen (16) buildings. It is to be completed within one hundred five (105)
calendar days from the date set forth in the Notice to Proceed.
This award is subject to the Contractor’s compliance with the CHA’s
MBE/WBE/DBE, Section 3 resident hiring, and bonding and insurance
requirements.

60 East Van Buren, 12th Floor · Chicago, Illinois 60605 · (312) 913-7282 · www.thecha.org

 