SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
May 23, 2019
PRESENT

ABSENT

Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex J. Alemis
Angela Hurlock
Dorothy Hudson
Albert Garcia

Laurentino Ramirez

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott
GUESTS
James R. Savio, CPA, MAS Partner, Government Services, Sikich
Danielle Richards, Alliance of the Southeast
Kenneth Litzsei, Litzsei Tech Services

Meeting was called to order at 2:07 p.m. Guests were welcomed and introduced.

1. Approval of Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded
by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.
Presentation
Mr. James R. Savio presented the 2018 Annual Financial Report. Mr. Savio stated
that the audit had no material weaknesses and no significant deficiency. Mr. Savio
said there were only two adjustments. After questions, Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
motioned to accept the 2018 Annual Financial Report completed by the Sikich firm,
Alex J. Alemis seconded. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

May 23, 2019

2. Approval of the Minutes
The minutes for the April 25, 2019, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the April 25, 2019,
meeting minutes was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson.
Motion carried.

3. Financial Report
Financial Reports for the month ending April 30, 2019, were reviewed and
discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the month of
April. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a motion to
approve the April 30, 2019 Financial Reports was made by Dorothy Hudson,
seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.
4. Cash Flow / Receivables
Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the April, 2019 bank
reconciliation. After a discussion, a motion to accept the April bank reconciliation
was made by Alex J. Alemis, seconded by Dorothy Hudson. Motion carried.

5. Items for Approval
Mr. Schell presented the April and May invoices for payment approval. After a
brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the April and May
invoices was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded by Alex J. Alemis.
Motion carried.
Two Security Rebate Applications for Capri Pizza and Dave Perez were
reviewed by the commissioners. After discussion and clarification that the
property owners want to put up a consistent fence with a gate, to secure their (5)
adjacent lots. Bonnie Dinell-Dimond made a motion to approve $2,250.00 for
Capri’s fence proposal, seconded by Alex J, Alemis. Motion carried. Dorothy
Hudson made a motion to approve $2,250.00 for Dave Perez’s fence proposal,
seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.
In order to accommodate these requests, Albert Garcia motioned to move
$5,000.00 from budget item, 2.03 Façade Rebate to 5.02 Safety Improvement
Rebates, Dorothy Hudson seconded. Motion carried.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

May 23, 2019

Dave Price informed he has been unable to get clarification from Mr. Aaron Von
regarding his façade rebate application. Per the Commissioners request, Dave
Price asked Mr. Von to meet and walk through the proposal and the work
required and has not heard back from Mr. Von. At this time, Dave Price is
requesting to suspend approval until further review of Mr. Von’s work plan.
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond motioned to suspend approval of Mr. Von’s façade rebate,
seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.
Dave Price presented another façade rebate but upon review it was determined
to table the discussion and vote until a second estimate for the requested work
has been submitted.
6. Program Manager Report
Dave Price presented the Security Data Review. After discussion, it was
suggested that Dave Price pull the reports from last year to determine if there is
a need to increase the security staff and or the length of day during the summer
months.
Dave Price shared the progress from the event committee. The event committee
proposed to hold recurring music events on the third Thursday of the month 6/20,
7/18, 8/15, 9/19. The proposal includes a block party style event to be held each
third Thursday from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. and have a musical performance along with
food vendors. Dave Price would be able to publicize the events and give away
the SSA 5 shopping bags. Albert Garcia motioned to approve $5,000.00 for the
(4) summer events, seconded by Bonnie Dinell-Diamond. Motion carried.
Dave price said the event committee is also interested in hosting a community
garage sale. Location and details are still in the works. Dave will speak to
Angela’s cohort that has established a similar event and present a more
complete proposal at the next meeting.
Dave Price said the event committee wants to help expand or enhance the
Mexican Independence Day Parade and Halloween celebrations. Details will be
presented at the next meeting.
Dave Price presented that the event committee wants to find a location to hold
events throughout the winter months as well, possibly a weekly movie night.
Dave Price stated that he may have (2) SBIF applicants. He has spoken with a
couple applicants and will follow up and help these applicants proceed with the
application process.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

May 23, 2019

Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:10 p.m.
was made by Bonnie Dinell-Dimond, seconded by Albert Garcia. Motion carried.

Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – June 27, 2019 at 2:00 p.m.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 