MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday June 20th, 2019
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:12 a.m.
EXCUSED ABSENCES
Bud Denker
Brad Dick
No Quorum established
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Michael Curis
Bryan Barnhill
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Michael Terrell
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
No Quorum established
General Updates
Ron Olson, Chief, DNR, Parks and Recreation
Oudolf Garden Update
Announced that the DNR Parks and Recreation and the Friends of the Oudolf Garden finalized
the agreement and that all the funding for the construction and the long-term upkeep of the
Oudolf Garden has been secured. The Belle Isle Conservancy will serve as the fiscal sponsor for
the project and they have signed the construction contract to begin the project. The Friends of
Oudolf Garden raised $4 million for the project. $2 million for construction and $2 million for
the maintenance endowment. The first planting will take place this Fall, the second planting will
take place in Spring of 2020 and the garden will be open to the public in the Fall of 2020.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – June 20, 2019
1

 DNR Law Enforcement Update
Jennifer Johnson, MSP
Lt. Todd Szyska, DNR
• Gearing up for the fireworks on Monday 6/24
• There will be no access to the island on Monday, June 24 until 2 p.m.
• There is a 3,000-car limit for the island.
• Busses will have additional pick-ups scheduled for the island on Monday, June 24 to assist in
the flow of the traffic for the public.
• Offered assistance to an impaired driver that had an issue at Lake Tacoma.
• Parking issues due to overcrowding on the park
Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
• The rain has been problematic and in conjunction with the higher than normal water levels it
has caused extensive flooding throughout the park. This is a regional issue so it is not just
exclusive to Belle Isle. The pumps are up and running to try to help balance the water in the
canals.
• The Army Corps of Engineers are predicting that the Great Lakes will rise another 4 inches
before the water crests.
• Areas of the east end of the park have been blocked off for public safety.
• Hiring for Belle Isle staff is complete. The new GOA for the Special Events Department has
been hired. They are looking forward to onboarding their new Rangers.
Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman
• Booking events for 2020, executing events that are taking place currently this year and
fielding calls, inquiries and concerns about island business.
• The rain has been very problematic with some of our outdoor events. We have had to
relocate and even cancel some of our events as a result of the rain and subsequent flooding.
• Sunday, June 23, the MoBig group will be playing a concert that begins at 6:30 p.m. They
are raising funds to rebuild the Bandshell. Admission is free and donations are welcome.
• June 24 - The Ford Fireworks will take place. Vehicular traffic will be allowed at 2 p.m.
Foot traffic and bike traffic is permissible prior to that time. There will be additional times
added to the bus schedule for traffic assistance.
• July 10 - Metro Youth Day
• July 14 - Annual Kite Festival
• August 3 – August 4 -Art Fair
• August 15 - Grand Opening for the dome at the Conservatory
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – June 20, 2019
2

 Michael Curis asked how many events they have had to cancel, to which Darlisa replied
about a half dozen; some of the big scale events they try to reroute but sometimes it does not
work out.
Infrastructure Updates
Karis Floyd
• The Conservatory is now open to the public with phase one renovations completed early.
• The ADA accessible walk to the fountain is now complete.
• The park Mobility Study will be kick-started soon.
• The Boating Access Study to the Detroit River has been completed and the results will be
shared with the public soon.
• DTE will be finishing up their work to replace electric service infrastructure on the west side
of the island and moving around to the Sunset Point area. They are currently ahead of
schedule.
• The final element of the Lake Okonoka restoration project involving a new drainage culvert
will take about 11 weeks and then the installation will take about 6 more weeks.
Grand Prix Update
Michael Montri
• The Grand Prix was a success with the attendance numbers being higher on Friday and
Sunday than 2018. The lower attendance on Saturday was weather related.
• The loadout time for the Grand Prix was 5 days quicker than last year and 1 day quicker than
what is in the event agreement.
• This year it was decided that it would be better for the park if we set up a lot of our
operations off the park turf, which helped to preserve a lot of the park grass due to wet
conditions.
• Changed the I.T. set-up of our operations in the Casino and the Flynn Pavilion to provide
permanent wi-fi so park visitors can now utilize the service at both buildings free of charge.
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Michelle Hodges
• Please thank our volunteers they are such an important part of our operations.
• The Aquarium is open on Fri, Sat and Sunday.
• We are looking for a few more tank sponsorships. In honor of Father’s Day we were selling
stuffed seahorses with little baby seahorses we still have 2 left.
• East Jefferson corridor initiative planning process is in its final stage. It is looking at 3 hubs
for mobility along Jefferson: Van Dyke, Chalmers and Riopelle.
• Met with the new Executive Director of the YMCA for Metro Detroit to discuss that
partnership.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – June 20, 2019
3

 •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Grand Prixmiere was a success and netted $800,000 from our generous donors. $200,000 of
the donation will be dedicated to the Scott Memorial Fountain.
Riverdays starts this weekend.
Silence the Violence will be held at Church of the Messiah June 29.
Jazzing on Jefferson June 29 - June 30.
Keep Belle Isle Beautiful Initiative will take place on June 29.
Deeper Dive is June 27 featuring the Cuban Gar.
Metro Detroit Youth Day July 10.
Kite Fest is July 14.
The August BIPAC meeting will be held in the evening.
September 10 - Garden Party at the Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory.
Polish the Jewel October 10.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Michael Betzold

The public deserves answers. Why does the set-up and take down of the
Grand Prix take so long? Why do the winners of the race get to swim in
the fountain? If a member of the public did that they would be arrested.
Would like to see evidence of the claims of the economic benefit of the
Grand Prix being on the island. Why are the public comments from the
last BIPAC meeting missing? The public should be able to see
documentation of the budget of the Conservancy.

Jerry Farrell

Belle Isle is looking good and would like to see the upgrade of the
island continue.

Robert Moore

Mr. Moore indicated he was the new manager of the Belle Isle Golf
Center. It is heavily affected by the flooding on the island but he will
try to have the Center up and running within the next 4-6 weeks. He
finds that speeding cars make it unsafe working on the back of the
island by golf maintenance workers. He asked for enforcement to
regulate the traffic on that section of the island.

Angela Lugo-Thomas Opposed to the Grand Prix being held on Belle Isle. Park users should
not have to navigate around a construction zone for the Grand Prix.
Belle Isle is our escape into nature for those of us who live here, not
those who only come for the Grand Prix, or maybe 2-3 times a year or
even those who have parks in their own communities, some that we
cannot go to or get to. Find another location for the Grand Prix, it does
not belong in a public park. We are waiting for the person that will
finally stand up and do the right thing.
Audrey Elkus:

Here to voice support for MOGO bike share stations on the island.
Possible locations: The Point, The Conservatory, the beach and the
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – June 20, 2019
4

 parking lot near the Blue Heron Lagoon trail. It is more cost effective
than the current biking service hosted on the island and would greatly
help with the mobility issue. Not affiliated with the MOGO bike
service at all.
COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
Bryan Barnhill:

Would like to explore some volunteer opportunities for a group of Ford
company employees for the month of September on the island.

Michelle Hodges:

Would like to thank Mr. Betzold for pointing out the fact that the public
comment section is missing from the Minutes from May. They are still
in a draft state so we will be checking into that. Thank you to our DNR
and MSP team.

Motion to Adjourn: No Quorum
Moved by:
Seconded by:
Meeting Concluded: 10:08 a.m.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
July 18th, 2019
Flynn Pavilion
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.
Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – June 20, 2019
5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

June 20, 2019

BELLE ISLE PARK
INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATE

Internal Affairs Building

New Belle Isle Park Headquarters

James Scott Memorial Fountain

Masonry Repairs

DNR is now moved into the new Headquarters.
Ranger staff will be working out of the White
House until the maintenance operations are
moved to the site behind new headquarters
building.

ADA Accessible walk:

Phase 2, DNR and DTMB are reviewing pricing
to complete garage work. The construction
period is 60 days.

Structural investigation of the concrete piers
started Monday June 17th and are underway
this week.

The consultant is will provide draft site design
for DNR/DTMB review by Friday, June 21st.
Construction is scheduled for late summer.
Construction period is estimated at 60 days.

G.H. Forbes will be retained to complete
maintenance manual for Scott Fountain
start-up and maintenance. G.H. Forbes will
work with Robert Carpenter, DTE, PBA
Engineering and DNR staff to complete
maintenance and training manual.

A new two-lane entry drive with more direct
ADA crossing for pedestrians using the
sidewalk along Sunset Drive. will replace
existing one-lane drive.

Belle Ilse Advisory Commit

ADA sloped walk to the fountain plaza is
complete.
Masonry and Structural Repairs:

1

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

June 20, 2019

Panoramic view of iron workers progressing with final painting of the upper truss replacement truss sections

Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Repairs
PROJECT UPDATE:
Phase One
•
•

All Work is complete ahead of schedule.
ASWC Conservatory will be open to the public again as of Wednesday, June 19th.

Phase Two
•
•
•

Engineering for phase two scope of work is underway.
Construction documents will be complete by the end of the year.
Scope of work for phase two includes;
1. Repointing damaged interior/exterior knee walls
2. Replace and repaint cracked cast iron in Low houses.
3. Clean lead-based paint from steel and cast iron in Upper Dome for
assessment. Prep and Repaint steel and cast iron (including gutters) in
Palm House.
4. Repair/replace corroded steel and cast iron in Palm House Upper Dome
Areas. Lead-based paint removal required.
5. Replace glass throughout facility, this will require some modification or
replacement of major (rafter) bar caps in the Palm House. Existing glazing
bedding compound and caulk contains asbestos and will require mitigation.
6. Ventilation (vent sash, machines and operating equipment) in Upper Cupola
to be completed in this Phase 2 when scaffolding will be required for the
painting. This work identified in ventilation assessment as requirement for
maintaining health of plants as current ventilation (from 1950 remodel) is
greatly below minimum requirements for adequate ventilation.

•

Funding sources for Phase 2 scope of work are being reviewed by the DNR and
BIC. Estimated project cost at current prices are approximately $10 million.
2

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

June 20, 2019

Belle Isle Aquarium and Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
*THE FOLLOWING PROJECTS HAVE BEEN FUNDED BY THE WILLIAM DAVISON FOUNDATION

1. Belle Isle Aquarium and Conservatory Drainage Study *
• Contractor completed preliminary investigative work.
• Additional investigation underway.
2. Belle Isle Aquarium Geothermal System Feasibility Assessment*
• Engineers are reviewing proposals for boring tests.
• Boring tests have yet to be scheduled.
3. Cost Comparison Evaluation Of The Original1904 Conservatory Design Vs. The
Current 1950 Design To Guide Future Improvements Of The Conservatory Glazing
Design And Vestibule Renovation*
• Final report has been submitted to DNR and BIC for review.
• Future master plan effort for the conservatory will include development of a
committee to determine era to restore conservatory to.
4. Aquatic life support system evaluation*
• Final report has been submitted to the DNR and BIC.
5. BIC – Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Garden ADA Access*
• The Belle Isle Conservancy Garden Committee has raised funds for
engineering plans to provide ADA access to the West and East end of the
formal garden.
• The engineering plans will be completed for the Fall Garden party
Fundraising event.
• The DNR and BIC Garden Committee will review consultant proposals
submitted Wednesday, June 26th.
3

 June 20, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

The Detroit River
Boating Access Study

• OHM has provided final draft for
DNR review.
• Draft Report has been reviewed by
the DNR and City of Detroit GSD.
• DNR submitted final comments to
OHM last week.

Athletic Complex Handball Courts•
•

Contractor has provided pricing for mesh ceiling panels. Costs to replace the roof with
steel panels are approximately $300,000.
Current cost estimates exceed budget for the Athletic Fields currently. DNR will review
options to proceed.

Lake Okonoka Shelter and Playground Improvements – NO UPDATE
•
•

Contractor has excavated for shelter and playground footings.
Contractor has filed for extension of contract due to wet weather conditions.

North Shoreline fishing:
•
•

Preconstruction meeting is was held earlier this month.
Engineer is currently revising plans to include the relocation of the kayak launch from the
west side of the canal behind the DYC to the parking area for the North Shoreline fishing
area.

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS
Belle Isle Boat House – Friends of Detroit Rowing (FODR)
Physical Assessment and Facility Master Plan - NO UPDATE

• Consultant has been selected for the Boathouse master plan and physical assessment and
FODR is working to complete project contract.
DTE – Gas
• The contract is still in negotiations.
DTE•– Gas
Quinn Evans will finalize draft and incorporate results of water mainline pressure test when
complete.
4

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

June 20, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Contd.
DTE Boring – Electric Upgrade
1. Restoration of site is complete.
DTE – Electric –
1. DTE will install underground conduit, transformers and stations around island in 2019. DTE
and DNR have coordinated utility layout and work schedule. Work has already begun on
Central Ave and is anticipated to continue through October 2019.
2. DTE has installed underground conduit along Central and will be starting along the beach area
and work their way towards the south end of the island.
3. DTE will provide new service connections to facilities next in 2020.

BIC, The Arboriculture Society of Michigan Foundation & The Michigan Forestry
Foundation– Sawmill Roof Replacement
•
•
•

Quinn Evans and Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc. are the architecture and structural
engineering consultants have submitted 90% engineering plans to replace the Sawmill roof.
Roof replacement plans have been reviewed and approved by SHPO.
Roof Construction is to be complete this year.

McArthur Bridge Maintenance
Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT)
•
•

Work on the West sidewalk of the McArthur Bridge has begun. Sidewalk will be closed while
MDOT completes resurfacing work.
During week, one lane will be closed to southbound traffic. Work is weather dependent. If
weather does not permit work to be complete this week, work expected to finish up the week of
the 24th. All traffic lanes will be open during weekends.

5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

June 20, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Cont’d.
Oudolf Garden Detroit - Piet Oudolf Garden –
•
•
•

Groundbreaking was Site June 11 t h , 2019.
Irrigation and planting are scheduled for fall, 2019.
The second phase of planting is anticipated for spring 2020.

BIC - Belle Isle Beach House Assessment •
•

Quinn Evans will finalize draft of assessment and facility and schematic.
Future water mainline pressure test will be incorporated into results of when complete.

Lake Okonoka Habitat Restoration
- Friends of The Detroit River
•
•

•

•

•

Contractor is finishing approaches on the Lakeside Drive Bridge. Approaches will be
complete by June 29th.
Once bridge work is complete the traffic may access The Strand and Lakeside Drive
again. As only one lane will be open on the Strand until all work is complete, vehicular
traffic routes will be coordinated with previously scheduled weekend events.
Once the Bridge work is complete, the contractor will pause work until the box culvert is
scheduled for delivery. Contractor will return to site to prepare for box culvert
installation about two weeks prior to deliver.
The high water around the project will not impact the schedule for the culvert installation,
and as soon as one week prior to delivery of the culvert sections, Z Con will remobilize
and commence with the earthwork.
Traffic Routes along the Strand will be reviewed by DNR and updates for road closures
will be updated on the DNR Belle Isle park and BIC websites.

6

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

June 20, 2019

FY 2019 UPCOMING PROJECTS
1 (SAW) Stormwater, Asset Management, and WastewaterThe water main scope of work will be funded by GSD with UTGO Bond funds.
• DNR reviewing scope of work provided by DWSD for stormwater and municipal water
assessments.
• DNR and GSD will coordinate with DWSD to have work completed under existing DWSD
contract.
• Meeting with GSD, DWSD and DNR is scheduled for July 10th to review scope of work.
2. Engineering, Athletic Shelter Roof Replacement
• PSC walk through occurred on June 10th.
3. Engineering, Maintenance and Operations barn and site improvements
Work ordered issued May 13th.
4. Belle Isle Park Transportation Planning Study. The DNR is coordinating with MDOT and
SEMCOG to refine scope of work for study.
• Meeting scheduled with MDOT, DNR and SEMCOG on June 25th to review scope of
work.

7

 