COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
June 28, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

For the past 18 months, the Cook County Health dialysis unit has had zero vascular access infections. Despite very high
volumes with a large number of high?risk patients, the staff was able to exceed the national benchmark. Congratulations
to the CCH dialysis staff Tavia Davis, Sinumon George, Annette Glenn, Elliot Isewede, Beena Jayamon, Kyung Sook Lee,
Diane Mensah, Justin Robinson, Kimberly Rodriquez, Eva Sacharczuk, Senu Thomas and infection control nurse Onofre
Donceras on this accomplishment by providing the safest and best possible care to patients.

Dr. Saurabh Malhotra, Director of Advanced Cardiac Imaging for Cook County Health, has been named as a winner of
the Journal of Nuclear Cardiology 2018-2019 Best Clinical Research Award for his original research paper titled,
?Relationship betheen left ventricular and scar burden in_ the genesis of ventricular His
paper was selected among dozens of research papers published in the journal last year.

Cook County Health was recently awarded the 2019 Mission: Lifeline STEMI Receiving Center Silver Recognition Award
from the American Heart Association. This award places CCH in an elite group of hospitals recognized by the American
Heart Association for our dedication to high quality systems of care amongst STEMI Receiving Centers. Congratulations
to our STEMI team here today Dr. Rami Doukky, Dr. Lauren Smith, Dr. Joseph Palter, Annmarie McDonagh, Dr. Vamsi
Kodumuri, Dr. Neha Vaclav, Radhamani Nair, Criselda Yulo, Sherly Chorath, Arlet Nedeltcheva, Siby Parekat, 
Jones, Antoinette Gray-Shipp, Reginald Anglin and Rodney Posley on this achievement for continuing to deliver the

highest quality of care.

Dr. TOyin Adeyemi, Senior Director of HIV Services for Cook County Health, was recently honored by the Bishop
Anderson House with the Marion Faldet Award for her service excellence during her two terms on their board. In that
time, she conceived and developed an invaluable partnership with the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center to enhance the
lives of all people living with HIV, whether young or old, which included establishing regular chaplaincy for patients.

After 34 years with Cook County Health, Horace Boston, an electrician on the central campus, is retiring. Horace always
has a smile on his face and a willingness and graciousness to assist our patience. Horace has been an invaluable asset to

the Building and Grounds Team.

Dr. Jeffrey Schaider, Chair of Emergency Medicine since 2005, is retiring after 30 years with Cook County Health. He
came to CCH in 1989 as our Associate Program Director in Emergency Medicine and has lead our emergency department
to be at the forefront of trauma care with the busiest emergency department in Illinois and one of the busiest in the
country. During his tenure, he helped establish CCH as the premier residency program in emergency medicine. In
addition to practicing medicine and directing the emergency department, Dr. Schaider has served as the chair of the
education committee of the American College of Emergency Physicians, and has authored and edited three widely used

emergency medicine textbooks.

Activities and Announcements

On July 16th at Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle and CCH will break ground on the new
Cook County Health Hanson Park clinic at 5501 West Fullerton Avenue. Invitation is attached.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.2

CCH received a grant to promote adolescent care to residents of Ford Heights and the surrounding communities.
New materials, posters and digital ads have been deployed. CCH launched a paid digital campaign promoting the
Cottage Grove Health Center through a video called, "Be Okay to Play!" The video is available on YouTube and
pops up when anyone visits the Cottage Grove Egg on cookcountyhealth.org. Our target audiences are young
people, ages 11-21, and moms who live within a Smile radius of the Cottage Grove Health Center. The call to
action is to schedule appointments by calling Cottage Grove at (708) 753-5800. The campaign will run on
Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Google through the end of August. We will measure impressions and clicks,
which will take viewers to the pop up on the website.

As part of our ongoing community outreach in Ford Heights, on Saturday, June several CCH employees visited
Ford Heights to cheer on and support the Ford Heights Little League program. CCH has been a proud sponsor of
the program for the last few years.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 2.1, 3.7, 7.4

 

On June Senator Richard Durbin, U.S. Surgeon General, Vice Admiral Jerome Adams held a roundtable at
Stroger Hospital with trauma centers to discuss the problem of gun violence and identify opportunities for
partnerships and programs including the expansion of programs to address Adverse Childhood Experiences and
bring more trauma-informed care to the County. Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle and Cook County
Commissioner Dennis Deer participated in the roundtable as well.

2020 Objectives 6.2, 7.0

Food As Medicine Update

Through June 6, CCH's Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has resulted in
190 visits to 13 CCH health centers Arlington Heights, Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove,
Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Provident/Sengstacke, Prieto, Robbins, and Woodlawn.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 24,785
individuals, representing 82,045 household members, totaling more than 514,250 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health
center visit. The GCFD Fresh Food Truck visits for the month ofJuly include the following ACHN Health Centers.

July 2 Prieto Health Center - 2424 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago, lL 60623

July 9 Provident Hospital/Sengstacke Health Center 500 W. 515t Street, Chicago, IL 60615

July 16 Woodlawn Health Center - 6337 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60634

July 18 Arlington Heights Health Center 3250 N. Arlington Heights Road, Arlington Heights, iL 60004

July 19 CORE Center - 2020 W. Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60612

July 23 Logan Square Health Center - 2840 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, IL 60647

July 25 Oak Forest Health Center 15900 S. Cicero Ave. Oak Forest, IL 60452

CCH Fresh Markets are offered in the south suburbs. Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit
that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food System through education, entrepreneurship, and access to
healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station?s Link Up Link Match program to offer
SNAP users with a match on all purchases at CCH Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week. CCH Fresh Markets
schedule is listed below:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am?3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

Three CCH health centers will host Summer Meals during the months when school is, not in session. Children 18
years and younger can get free, health meals at the following CCH health centers:
0 Cottage Grove Health Center Monday-Friday, 12pm-1:15pm
June 10 through August 23 (closed July 4-5, August 2)

Englewood Health Center Monday-Friday, Ham-12:30pm
June 25 through August 30 (closed July 4)

0 Robbins Health Center Monday-Friday, 11:30am-12pm
June 24 through August 30 (closed July 4)

Children are not required to be a current patient of CCH to access Summer Meals.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

3 Page

State

The Illinois General Assembly concluded their Spring 2019 session on June 2.

While the session did not end on the scheduled deadline of May 31, major pieces of legislation, including a
balanced state FY2020 budget, a constitutional amendment allowing for a graduate income tax along with
accompanying rates, a Medicaid omnibus bill, a new assessment on managed care, gaming expansion, a
comprehensive capital bill along with new revenue sources, recreational cannabis, and the Reproductive Health
Act, were passed by the General Assembly.

The Governor has 60 days to take action on bills that are sent to him by the General Assembly. if he takes no
action, the bill goes into effect on day 61.

531321, also referred to as the Medicaid Omnibus Bill, passed the House and Senate unanimously; the Governor
is expected to sign it.

$81321 intends to address challenges with the state?s eligibility system and resulting delays in processing
Medicaid applications and redeterminations. The bill also seeks to improve the relationship between providers
and Medicaid MCOs by requiring HFS to establish a claims dispute resolution process, establishing policies and
timelines for MCOs to update provider rosters, and ensuring stakeholder engagement in efforts to improve MCO
operations and further develop value-based payment models. The bill goes into effect upon becoming law.

CCH reviewed and provided input towards the Medicaid omnibus bill from its perspective as both a health care
provider and a Medicaid managed care plan. -

101?0008 establishes six new tiers of state income tax rates, instead of the single rate of 4.95% that
presently applies to all income levels. PA 101-0008 can only go into effect if the associated constitutional
amendment (SJRCA 1) is approved by voters in November 2020, which requires 60% of the ?yes? votes OR a
simple majority of ?yes? votes among all ballots cast.

According to the Governor's office, 97% of ?lers should see a tax reduction with the new tax rates. The new tax
rates would only apply to incomes in the specific brackets, while those in the highest tier (those earning more
than $750,000 for single filers and those earning more than forjoint filers) would have their entire income
taxed at the highest tier Currently the flat tax rate is 4.95%)

New rates would be effective no earlier than January 1, 2021.

The House and Senate passed a comprehensive capital bill (H862) that includes vertical and horizontal projects,
funded by new state bonding, gaming expansion revenue, doubling the motor fuel tax, a $1/pack increase in the
state cigarette tax, and other increases on various taxes and fees (53690 and SB1939).

The bills passed with bipartisan support from both chambers. These package of bills have been sent to the
Governor and await his action. in addition to individual projects named in H362, the capital bill also includes
for "Hospital and Healthcare Transformation" and for "the Community Health Center Construction
Act?.

The bills are effective July 1, 2019 unless otherwise noted.

With the September 30 end of the federal fiscal year looming, the House completed work on the first package of
appropriations for FY 2020, including funding for the US. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
While a deal to lift the statutory budget caps under the Budget Control Act of 2011 remained elusive, House

4 Page

appropriators moved ahead with their FY 2020 appropriations bills. Meanwhile the committees of jurisdiction
continued bi-partisan work on measures to reign in prescription drug prices.

On June 12-13 Dr. Shannon and President Preckwinkle traveled to Washington DC to meet with members of the
Illinois Congressional delegation. Topics of discussion included the importance to Cook County Health of
Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments and the 3403 Prescription Drug Discount Program.

DSH funding is set to expire September 30, 2019. In FY19 will receive in DSH funding. if the cuts
go into effect on October Cook County Health would lose this coming year. Dr. Shannon and President
Preckwinkle urged members of the delegation to extend DSH funding into FFY2020 and beyond.

Congress established the 3408 program more than 20 years ago to provide financial relief from high prescription
drug costs to safety-net hospitals. The 3408 program provides Cook County Health with approximately in
annual savings. The savings realized from this program allow us to not only to provide much needed
pharmaceuticals but also frees up our limited resources to provide additional health services for our uninsured
and low-income patients. Any efforts to reduce or scale back the 340B program would significantly impact our
ability to continue to serve the most vulnerable patients in Cook County.

Budget and Appropriations

On June 19, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell hosted the first meeting since May with House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), House Minority Leader Kevin
McCarthy (R-CA), Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney in
pursuit of an agreement to lift the statutory budget caps under the Budget Control Act of 2011. If they fail to
reach agreement, automatic across the board cuts, called sequestration, would be imposed, amounting to about

ten percent for most federal programs.

Meanwhile the House took up the first FY 2020 appropriations ?minibus," which included four regular bills
reported out by the full Committee on Appropriations: Labor-HHS-Education (H.R. 2740), Defense (H.R. 2968),
State-Foreign Operations (H.R. 2839), and Energy and Water (H.R. 2960). After several days of floor
consideration over two weeks, including votes on hundreds of amendments, the House voted to approve the

measure 226-203 on June 19.

The bill funds HHS at $99.4 billion, which is $8.9 billion more than the FY 2019 level and $21.3 billion above the
President?s budget request. The bill includes policy riders which would block the Administration from
implementing regulations to expand short term health plans and allow health care workers to refuse to give care
on religious or moral grounds. The President has issued a veto threat against the bill, citing the increased
domestic spending levels and restrictions on his policy initiatives.

Meanwhile, Senate appropriators have not introduced any of their annual spending bills. Senate Appropriations
Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) has said that ifa deal on new budget caps has not been achieved by July 1 then
he would pick proxy numbers to start moving the FY 2020 bills.

Medicaid

On June 4 the House Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Health held a hearing on the so-called
?health care extenders? programs whose authorization or funding runs out and must be extended. Panel
members on both sides of the aisle expressed support for the programs including community health centers, the
National Health Service Corps and teaching health center GME and others. The subcommittee also discussed
legislation (H.R. 3022) introduced by Rep. Elliot Engel which would repeal the Affordable Care Act?s
reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments. While all the subcommittee members
who spoke on the subject agreed that the cuts to DSH should not go into effect, Republican members objected

5 Page

to the Engel bill because it is not paid for and because it does not rebalance Medicaid DSH state allocations,
which they argue are out of date and not fair.

Cook County Representative Bobby Rush made a strong statement in support of the Medicaid DSH
program and its importance to CCH during the hearing.

Health Care Costs

0 On June 18 the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee held a hearing on draft
legislation aimed at reducing health care costs. On June 19 the committee released the bill, 5.1895, the Lower
Health Care Costs Act of 2019. The bill contains provisions designed to address surprise billing, reduce
prescription drug prices, promote transparency, improve public health and improve the exchange of health
information. The public health provisions include:

a national campaign to improve awareness of the safety and effectiveness of vaccines and combat
misinformation;

- directs HHS to develop and disseminate a guide for state and local health departments on evidence-based
strategies for public health department obesity prevention programs;

1: authorizes grants for local health departments to modernize their public health data systems;

- establishes a maternal health grant program for the training of health care professionals to reduce and
prevent discrimination, including training related to implicit biases, in the provision of health care services
related to prenatal care, labor care, birthing, and postpartum care;

0 requires a study on training to reduce and prevent discrimination;

- requires CDC to set up state perinatal quality collaboratives;

authorizes HHS to award grants to states for providing integrated services for pregnant and postpartum
women; and

0 extends mandatory funding for community health centers, the National Health Service Corps, and teaching
health centers that operate GME programs.

The HELP Committee will mark the bill up the week ofJune 24.

The Senate Finance Committee plans to roll out its bipartisan package of provisions in itsjurisdiction, including
Medicare and Medicaid, after the July Fourth recess.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

6 Page

Community Outreach

July 10

July 12

July 12

July 12

July 13

July 19

July 19

July 20

July 20

July 20

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Aids Foundation Chicago Women's Connection Summit
which will take place at the Compassion Baptist Church located at 2650 E. 95th Street in Chicago. The
Women?s Connection Summit is a resource fair designed to bring together local service providers to create
a ?one-stop" environment for individuals that are facing adverse situations such as homelessness or drug
addiction. We will highlight the services provided by the CORE Center and the affiliates at Provident
Hospital, SSHARC, and Austin CDC.

Cook County Health promotion at the Bremen Township Produce Event, hosted by the Township in
collaboration with Together We Cope at the Township building, located at 16361 S. Kedzie Avenue in
Markham. Special promotion of the Fresh Markets of Cottage Grove, Oak Forest and Robbins will take place

at this event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Metropolitan Family Services' Resource Fair for the
Community which will take place at their facility located at 3843 W. 63rd Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Hanover Park Park District's Cops Day Picnic which
is hosted by Hanover Park Police Department and will take place at the Park District facilities located at
1919 Walnut Avenue in Hanover Park. The picnic brings the opportunity for residents and surrounding
communities to learn about the services available from various organizations including the nearby

Arlington Heights Health Center.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Power of Praise Church's Great Commission
Community Health Event which will take place at the church located at 544 West 119th Street in Chicago.
This second annual event will focus on health related issues to improve the Roseland community.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Empowering by Faith Outreach Ministries?
Community Health Fair which takes place at the Body of Christ Deliverance Ministries located at 741 W.
115th Street in Chicago. The goal of this event is to make residents aware of all the resources available that
can meet their needs in the Roseland and Pullman communities.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Center For Health Services' Summer Celebration
Community Health Resource Fair which will take place at the Barrington Square Mall Center located at
2350 Higgins Road in Hoffman Estates.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Simeon Alumni Cookout which is will take place at
Green Lake Woods Groves located at 1- 5 Thorn Creek Division Level, 15803 Torrence Avenue in Calumet
City. The Simeon Alumni Cookout will have over 1,000 participants and the event brings local and region-
wide resources to participants so that they can disseminate the information to residents, friends, and

alumni.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at University Church Family Resource Day which takes
place at the church located at 5655 South University in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Peer Plus Education's 3rd Annual Taste Of Gospel
Picnic Fair which will take place in Washington Park located at 5100 S. Cottage Grove in Chicago. The Taste
of Gospel will have a-health pavilion that will include health screenings such as blood pressure, cholesterol,

and diabetes.

7 Page

July 21

July 23

July 26

July 27

July 27

July 27

July 27

July 31

July 31

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the New Bethlehem's Family and Friends Community
Day which will take place at the church located at 8850 S. Cottage Grove in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Children Center Community Baby Shower
sponsored by Meridian Health Plan which will take place at the Town of Cicero Community Center located
at 2250 S. 49th Avenue in Cicero. Expecting and New moms will receive educational information via
speakers on the importance of prenatal and post-natal care, post-partum care, early periodic screenings,
and childhood immunizations. Staff from the Cicero Health Center will attend to promote the services
provided at their facility.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Centro Comunitario Juan Diego's Health Fair Under
the Sun which will take place at the Center located at 8812 S. Commercial Avenue in Chicago. Health Fair
Under the Sun is an annual event in the South Chicago community that focuses on the entire family.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the UChicago Medicine Ingalls Memorial Kid Fest which
takes place at the Family Christian Health Center located at 31 W. 155th Street in Harvey. This Back to
School Health Fair for community residents so that children can receive necessary physicals, health
screenings and immunizations prior to the start of school.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Evening Star Baptist Church's Annual Back to School
Community Crusade which takes place at the church located at 2050 W. 59th Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Salvation Army?s Kids Health Fair which will take
place at the Salvation Army Harbor Light located at 825 N. Christiana Avenue in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Catholic Charities Health Fair, which will take place
at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church located at 1115 23rd Avenue in Melrose Park. Catholic Charities runs
exam-based Health Fairs in the mOSt medically underserved communities in the Chicago area. They team
up with nurses, physicians, dentists, podiatrists, and ophthalmologists, who donate their time every year to
make the highest quality health fairs possible.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Prairie Green at Dixie Crossing's Community
Resource Fair which will take place at their facility located at 1040 Dixie Highway in Chicago Heights.

Cook County Health promotion at the Robbins Health Center of Cook County?s Back to School Health Fair,
which will take place in the health center located at 13450 S. Kedzie Avenue in Robbins. Pediatric patients
from the Robbins Health Center will have the opportunity to receive immunizations, school physicals and
dental screenings. Several local non-profit and governmental organizations will also serve as vendors to
provide resources and information.

8 Page

