 

 

 

Deliver High Quality Care
Objective

Highlighted Strategies

1.1 Continuously
improve clinical
operations,
practices and
procedures across
CCH to enhance
quality, reliability,
safety and
efficiency.
Achieve zero
harm.

1.1 A Develop specific strategies and implementation plans related to the quality pillars
(patient experience, readmissions, safe processes of care, clinical documentation,
ambulatory pay for performance, and mortality).
1.1 B Establish maternal/child health services at the community centers as key providers of
maternal/child services. Assess and pilot additional strategies to support the continuum of
maternal health services throughout the system.
1.1 C Enhance and reinforce organizational practices that improve a culture of safety and
result in safe patient outcomes.
1.1 D Improve the health status of patients by implementing the tenants of the medical home
and practices that provide value.
1.1 F Improve inpatient and ambulatory patient care by adopting strategies that move
towards nursing Magnet® certification.
1.1 G Assure reliable supply chain to provide timely and safe clinical practice.
1.1 H Deploy appropriate emerging technology to improve portability and functionality.

2

 Deliver High Quality Care
Objective
1.1 Continuously
improve clinical
operations,
practices and
procedures across
CCH to enhance
quality, reliability,
safety and
efficiency.
Achieve zero
harm.

Highlighted Strategies
1.1 I Leverage IT in the clinical environment by using Artificial Intelligence and predictive
analytics to improve patient care. Review the electronic medical record and determine if
there are any untapped management tools to activate.
1.1 J Implement data governance model to improve data integrity and provide meaningful
and timely reports to measure service performance to external benchmarks. Increase
independent user access to data dashboards to improve knowledge, decision making and
patient care.
1.1 K Optimize health system integration and care transitions to benefit patients and the
health system using an approach that is consistent with evidence-based practices.
1.1 L Modernize information technology infrastructure to improve the patient experience.
1.1 M Assess contribution of Race, Ethnicity, and Language (REaL) factors to adverse events
and develop mitigation strategies. Assess the contribution of disparities to health outcomes
and adverse events. Determine if a patient’s cultural or racial factors contribute to adverse
outcomes and evaluate the causes of these outcomes. Focus quality efforts in areas that are
directly impacted by disparities.
1.1 N Deploy applications that enhance services and facilitate exchange of clinical and public
health data.
1.1 O Launch culturally-tailored health promotion programming and interventions. Shape
our health centers to be culturally and linguistically sensitive.
3

 Deliver High Quality Care
Objective
1.2 Develop
systems that
meet or exceed
expectations and
enhance the
patient
experience.
1.3 Improve the
availability of
and access to
health care,
especially
preventive care,
for Cook County
residents.

Highlighted Strategy
1.2 A Implement best practices to enhance patient experience using data from patient
satisfaction surveys. Use improvement strategies and support leadership strategies at the
unit, department and site levels.
1.2 B Develop comprehensive cultural competency strategy.
1.2 C Launch initiatives focused on customer service, patient conveniences. (e.g. Quiet
Campaign)
1.3 A Enhance strategic partnerships with community providers.
1.3 B Develop a roadmap of service needs by conducting a geographic analysis of providers,
income, disease prevalence, etc., throughout the County to determine gaps in health
services and recommend a service delivery plan.
1.3 C Complete master facilities plan and make investments to make CCH more
competitive.
1.3 D Develop a comprehensive patient education strategy (e.g. diabetes prevention
training, prenatal education, blood pressure self testing)
1.3 E Take advantage of state and federal initiatives to innovate care delivery services and
programs, beneficial to patients and members.
1.3 F Mature behavioral health portfolio.
1.3 G Implement operational improvements to tap into unused capacity and create more
access.
4

 Deliver High Quality Care
Objective

Highlighted Strategy

1.4 Ensure there is a continuum of services to
meet evolving needs to ensure continuity of care
and meet patient needs at all stages of their
lives.
1.5 Integrate services with correctional health to
reduce the jail population by ensuring
continuation of care when individuals are
released from correctional or detention facilities
and reside in Cook County.

1.4 A Conduct analysis of services and identify gaps in the continuum
of care to build valuable strategies for special populations (e.g.
elderly, disabled, etc.).
1.5 A Improve transitions of care to the community through
enhanced discharge planning.

5

 Grow to Serve and Compete
Objective

Highlighted Strategies

2.1 Establish CCH
as a provider of
choice

2.1 A Grow services lines that are needed by the community and deploy them geographically,
in a patient-centered way.
2.1 B Maximize use of services and overall utilization.
2.1 C Improve Stroger and Provident Hospital throughput.
2.1 D Market CCH services and strengthen the CCH brand.
2.1 E Explore opportunities for CCH to be a provider for County employees as well as other
employers.
2.1 F Minimize external referrals for care.
2.1 G Establish additional specific programs at Provident to maximize meeting the
community needs.
2.1 H Maximize value of CCH resources (people, technology) to provide greater access to
benefit patients.
2.2 A Explore options in acquiring additional members through changes in the marketplace.
2.2 B Continue to implement a strong member retention and growth strategy to retain market
share. Advocate for state policy changes that result in a simpler redetermination process.
2.2 C Enhance incentive programs and member benefits for improved health outcomes and
member retention.
2.3 A Execute Medicare Advantage strategy that includes Chronic Conditions Special Needs
Plan (C-SNP) for persons with HIV; Institutional Special Needs Plan (I-SNP); Institutional
Equivalent Special Needs Plan (IE-SNP); Medicare-Medicaid Alignment Initiative (MMAI).
2.3 B Migrate to managed care capability including accepting risk.

2.2 Retain and
grow CountyCare
market share.
2.3 Grow market
share in nontraditional CCH
populations.

6

 Foster Fiscal Stewardship
Objective

Highlighted Strategies

3.1 Optimize
CCH revenue.

3.1 A Maximize reimbursements from payors by continuing to improve operations, including
revenue cycle improvements.
3.1 AA Continue to improve financial reporting
3.1 B Maximize extramural grant sources in alignment CCH initiatives, including primary care,
maternal/child health, workforce development, behavioral health, HIV, social determinants of
health and capital improvements; capture 10% indirect cost. Continue to build out the grants
administrative infrastructure and increase the funds managed by CCH.
3.1 C Continually improve documentation through ongoing provider feedback and provider
education to support timely, complete and accurate billing.
3.1 D Maximize auto-assignment for CountyCare.
3.1 E Increase CountyCare membership in the Integrated Care Program (ICP) by assisting
members with disabilities attain SSI/SSDI.
3.1 F Identification of Skilled Nursing Facility and Home Health Partners for CountyCare
members
3.1 G Advocate for local government financial support of unfunded mandates such as
correctional health and public health services.
3.1 H Optimize information technology infrastructure to improve revenue capture.

7

 Foster Fiscal Stewardship
Objective
3.2 Control costs
and maximize
efficiencies.

Highlighted Strategies
3.2 A CountyCare to continue implementation of Medical Cost Action Plan to reduce costs.
3.2 B Increasing full time employees, reducing agency and overtime costs.
3.2 C Maximize lab automation.
3.2 D Utilize data (volume, unit costs) to ensure staffing is in-line with appropriate best
practices.
3.2 E Evaluate training programs to determine optimal size and CCH strategic and fiscal value.
3.2 F Conduct event review and overall analysis for all litigation and implement and
communicate lessons learned to mitigate financial risks through employee training.
3.2 G Reduce facility expenses.
3.2 H Transition high volume network providers to value-based contracts for CountyCare.
3.2 I In collaboration with the County, develop strategy for CCH to assume additional current
pension payments.

3.3 Pharmaceutical
Management.

3.3 A Optimize pharmacy economics.

8

 Leverage and Invest in Assets
Objective
4.1 Recruit, hire
and retain the best
employees, who
are committed to
the CCH mission.

4.2 Strengthen
the CCH
Workforce.

Highlighted Strategies
4.1 A Finalize implementation of online performance evaluations.
4.1 B Develop an industry-based class and compensation strategy to recruit, hire and retain the best
employees to support the continued transformation of the organization.
4.1 C Analyze and develop solutions for employee transportation needs.

4.2 A Enhance workforce training opportunities.
4.2 B Conduct an analysis of organizational leadership by span of control, bench strength and
develop an approach to succession planning.
4.2 C Review of competency-based, “top of license” model of care across the system.
4.2 D Develop strategies that foster flexibility and career development for unionized employees.

4.3 Leverage
CCH workforce.

4.2 E Pursue partnerships with nursing schools to foster and grow recruitment of excellent and
culturally-competent nurses to CCH.
4.2 F Improve the continuous learning environment of CCH and conduct an ongoing review of the
effectiveness of academic affiliations.
4.3 A Develop and execute employee engagement action plans based on learnings from the
employee engagement survey. Enhance collaboration with labor to further employee engagement.
4.3 B Strengthen inter-departmental communications and collaboration better-coordinated
services and improved patient outcomes.
4.3 C Support an environment of continuous process improvement by increasing managers'
competencies using process improvement and project management tools.
9
4.3 D Support Board development.

 Leverage and Invest in Assets
Objective

Highlighted Strategy

4.4 Utilize industry
benchmarking and
tools to improve
quality, cost,
utilization and
patient outcomes.

4.4 A Establish staffing productivity model to optimize efficiency and effectiveness for key areas (e.g.
nursing, environmental services); Develop a predictive staffing model/variable workload staffing model.
4.4 B Develop the ability to analyze specific initiatives to determine mission alignment and attainment of
outcomes.
4.4 C Evaluate outcome data and utilization patterns to determine the efficacy of various system
strategies (e.g. care coordination).
4.4 E Update Clinical, Administrative, Research and Teaching (CART) process to review and standardize
expectations and that actuals are aligned with these expectations. Distribute dashboards to benchmark
performance on CART and Relative Value Units (RVU) at the physician and department level.
4.4 F Mature health plan network strategy to assure access, quality, and value.

4.5 Utilize CCDPH
data and experience
to address health
inequities to
conceptualize and
plan robust
interventions to
improve population
health.

4.5 A Develop system-wide strategies to reduce transmissible infections.
4.5 B Maximize local health collaboration, partnership and alignment in Cook County to inform services,
with local health departments such as City of Chicago Department of Public Health and local resources
such as the University of Illinois School of Public Health.
4.5 C Explore establishing additional injury-prevention partnerships and programs.

10

 Leverage and Invest in Assets
Objective

Highlighted Strategy

4.6 Increase
community
engagement.

4.6 A Leverage outpatient health centers as community anchors by partnering with community
organizations. Continue rolling out community advisory boards for all outpatient health centers.
Develop a strategy to maximize community linkages.

4.7 Align
extramural funding
efforts with core
competencies and
strategies.

4.7 A Mature grant opportunity review process to include an evaluation of potential grants based on
CCH strategy, expected cost/benefit and clinical or research alignment.

11

 Impact Social Determinants & Advocate for Patients
Objective
5.1 Tailor Social
Determinant of
Health strategies
to achieve the
most impact on
CCH patients
and Health Plan
members.

Highlighted Strategies
5.1 A Establish cross-departmental stakeholder group to create a plan to address social
determinants of health for CCH populations.
5.1 B Leverage CountyCare data, including Health Risk Assessments (HRAs) to identify
needed value-added benefits to membership related to social determinants of health
and serve that improve health status.
5.1 C Leverage and modernize technology to address social determinants of health.
5.1 D Partner with other organizations to address population health care needs outside
of the health care system, including those related to food insecurity.
5.1 E Grow and mature the housing strategy to improve patient outcomes.
5.1 F Educate local, state and federal officials on policies and practices that affect CCH
populations.
5.1 G Collaborate nationally with county government stakeholders and large urban
health care systems to garner congressional support to garner support for legislation
that furthers the mission of CCH on shared policy priorities and targeted advocacy
efforts.
5.1 H Utilize CCH data and experience to address health inequities to conceptualize and
plan robust interventions to improve population health and trauma-informed
approaches.
12

 Impact Social Determinants & Advocate for Patients
Objective

Highlighted Strategies

5.2 Elevate
organizational
contributions to
mitigate
disparities.

5.2 A Maximize external recognition of CCH best practices.
5.2 B Work with Cook County government to advance a Health in All Policies (HiAP)
approach that incorporates health, equity and sustainability considerations into decisionmaking across sectors and policy areas to improve the quality of life of its residents.
5.2 C Support the Cook County Complete Count Census Commission in their efforts to ensure
that all Cook County residents are counted in the 2020 Census.
5.2 D Increase MBE/WBE participation on contracts.
5.3 A Advocate for the adoption of a Cook County Lead Poisoning Prevention Ordinance.
5.3 B Expand the use of population and epidemiologic data to identify upstream drivers of
chronic diseases and conditions, improve birth outcomes and enhance childhood
development.
5.3 C Identify opportunities to partner with other governments and organizations to address
gun violence, opioid abuse, and sexually transmitted infections.

5.3 Utilize CCH
data and
experience to
address health
inequities to
conceptualize
and plan robust
interventions to
improve
population
health.
5.4 Access to
Healthcare

5.4 A Advocate for strategies to improve coverage for vulnerable populations.
5.4 B Develop a focused program on populations that would benefit from better engagement
13
in health care who are less likely to engage in appropriate preventive care.

 FY2020-2022

COOK COUNTY




.A 
..
I 1111 
?1 

 

Strategic Planning Timeline

• Environmental
Assessment:
Epidemiology,
Health status
and disparities
in Cook County
• Information
Technology

• Financial
Status and
Pressures
• State and
Federal
Issues

•Human Resources
•Pension Overview
•Quality
•Extramural Funding
•Health Equity and Social
Determinants
•Correctional Health
•Behavioral Health
•Safety net strategies/
vulnerabilities, local
market realities,
partnerships

• Integrated Care
• Medicaid Managed
Care/Managed
Populations
• Research
• Clinical Activity,
Utilization &
Operational
Efficiency
• Medical Practice/
Medical Group

•Nursing
•Graduate
Education
•Capital Investment
•Primary Care/
Maternal Child
Care
•Diagnostic/
Specialty Services
•Marketing,
Communications &
Branding
•Community Health
Improvement
Plans/CCDPH
•Community/
Employee
Meetings

•Discuss preliminary draft
at full board meeting

UPCOMING

COMPLETED

• Population
Overview and
Projections

•Draft plan issued for
employee and public review
and comment

•Special board meeting to
present analysis of the
uninsured and discuss the
draft plan

• Community/
Employee
Meetings
• Financial
Forecasting
Scenarios

•Anticipated approval of
2020-2023 Strategic Plan

 