59%?

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE


,i

I,

OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT 

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA CANCELED

 

 

Petition 622

Event Name:

Event Date: June 28 2912019

Jazzin at the Vanity

 

 

Street Closure: Jefferson Avenue

Organization

 

Name:

Jefferson East Inc,

 

Street Address: 300 River Place Drive #5250 Detroit, MI 48207

 

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk?s Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

I: Walkathon
Bike Race

Filming
Fireworks

24-Hour Liquor License

Parade

El Convention/Conference Other:

I: Carnival/Circus

I: Religious Ceremony

Concert/Performance Run/Marathon
I: Political Ceremony Festival

El Sports/Recreation El Rally/Demonstration

 

 

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

Jefferson East, Inc. will be revamping "Jazzin on Jefferson" to showcase the Vanity Ballroom by
hosting a block party on Jefferson Avenue between Lakewood and Newport from 2:00pm - 10:00pm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

each day.
ALL permits and license requirements must be fulfilled for an approval status 
Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
DPD 5th Precinct will Assist
DPD CI 
Pending Inspections
my 
EMS
ROW Permit Required
DPW El 
Health Dept. El Temporary Food License Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
Type Concrete Barricades Road
TED Closure Signage Required
No Jurisdiction
Recreation

 

Safety

ED

Permits Required for Tents, Stages 
Generators

 

Vendors License Liquor License

 

 

 

 

 

Bus. License Required
All Necessary permits must be obtained

Mag: prior to event. If permits are not obtained,

departments can enforce closure of event.
. . No Parking Signs Required
Mumcnpal
Parking 
DDOT I: Low Impact on Buses

 

 



 



 

 

OFFICE
Signature: ?6me {4mmu24
Date: ?manar 

 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, January 08, 2019

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
OFFICE POLICE DEPARTMENT
FIRE DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER

622 Je??erson East Inc, request to hold ?Jazzin at the Vanity? on Je?erson between
Newport and Lakewood on June 28 and 29, 201 9 from 4:00 PM to 10:00 PM
and 12:00 PM to 10:00 PM respectively with closures ofJe?erson, Lakewood
and Newport.

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful. events are the result of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork.
The Ci ty of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the Special Events Guidelines; please print them
out for reference. Petitioners are required to complete the information below so that the City of
Detroit may gain a thorough understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be
completed and returned to the Special Events and Film Handling Office at least 60 days prior to
the first date of the event. If submitted later than 60 days prior, application is subject to denial.
Please type or print clearly and attach additional sheets and maps as needed.

Section 1- GENERAL EVENT 

 

Event Nymlazzin at the Vanity

Eventmm?omjefferson between Newport and Lakewood

 

Is this going to be an annual event? . Yes El No

 

Section 2- IN 

Organization Name: Jefferson East, Inc.

 

Omaniza?on Mailing Address: Address: 300 River Pi Dr #5250, Detroit, MI 48207

 

Business Phone: (313) 331-7939 Business Website: rsoneast.org

 

Appiicam Name: Mark Loeb, Consultant

 

 

 

Business Phone:313 486 2666 CcIIFhonc;734 216 3958 
Event {Jo-Site Contact Person:

Name: Ma rI< Loeb

Business Phone:313 486 2666 CeiIPhone:734 216 3958 
Event Elements (check all that apply)

I, Walkthon '1 CamivalJ'Cireu 5 [fl ConcertiPerformance

1' .i Run/Marathon .1 Bike Race [j Religious Ceremony

i?oliticai Event Festival Filming

f] Parade Sports/Recreation 

fl ConventionlConference f] Fireworks 2] Other:

 

Projected Number of Attendees:5000
Please provide a brief description of your event:

Jefferson East has been producing variations ofJazzin on Jefferson for many years to celebrate the
6

 

 

 

 

What are the proiected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be completed)?

 

 

Begin Set?up Date 05/2 7/2019 Time: 7 00 PM Complete Setwup Date: 06/2 8/19 Timez4200PM
Event Start Date:06/28/2019 Time'4:00PM Event End Datc:O6/29/2019 Time:10:00 PM
Begin Tearing Down Date:06/2 9/201 9 Complete Tear Down Date:06/2 9/2019

 

Event Titties [If more than one day, give times for day):

Friday 4pm until 10pm, Saturday Noon until 10pm

 

 

Section 3- 

Location ovaemzjefferson between Lakewood and Newpost including a section of Lakewood and Newport

Facilities to be use?C heck) Stneet I Sidewalk I Park City
Facility

Please attach a copy of Port-a-John, Sanitation, and Emctgency medical Agreements as well as a site plan which illustrates the
anticipated layout of your event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit Location of First Aid

~Location of merchandising booths location of ?re lane

?Location of food booths ~l?roposed route for walklrun
location of garbage receptacles ~Location of tents and canopies
??xation of beverage booths ?Sketeh of street closure

~location of sound stages ~Location of bleachers

vLocation of hand washing sinks 'iteration of press area

location of portable restrooms Sketch of proposed light pole banners

You will be prompted to upload these attachments upon submitting this form
Section 4- 

 

Describe the entertainment for this year?s event:

Jazz performances

Will a sound system be used? . Yes El No

If yes, what type of sound system? Professional 50 nd

 

Describe speci?c power needs for entertainment and/or music:

Generators

I-l'ow many generators will be used? TWO

 

I-l'ow will the generators be fueled?
Arrive fueled

 

 

Name of vendor providing generators:

be determined- Probably MAD Power

Address: Phon e:

Cit ylStateJ?ij

Section 5~ SALES It TF0 

 

Will there be advanced ticket sales? El Yes No
If yes. please describe:

Will there be onnsite ticket sales? El Yes . No
If yes, list pricefs):

Will there be vending or sales? . Yes El No
If yes, check all that apply:

Food Merchandise NonrAiooholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages

Indicate type of items to be sold:
Food and drink. Local businesses.

Seclion 6? PUBLIC SAFETY 8: PARKING 

 

Name ofPrivate Security Companyil'o be determined. Probably Tricon along with Secondary Employment

Contact i?emon:

Address: Phone:

 

 

Am the private security personnel (check all that apply):

1. 1 Licensed l. Armed 1' ?l Bonded

 

How will you advise attendees of parking options?
WebSIte, Signage and advertisements.

 

 

Section IMPACT 

   

How will your event impact the surrounding community pedestrian traf?c sound canyover, safety)?
More traffic and sound into the early evening. Traffic disruptions.

Have local neighborhood groupslbusinesscs approved your event? . Yes No

It. In. win an. vouhiave orwiiltaketon tif them ofy . I . I I
Jeiyerson fiasE r'egu larly meets With the nelgho rnood groups and Involve them In the planning of thIs

project as possible.

 

Section 8- 

Complete the appropriate categories that appiy to the event Structure

How Many? SizefI-lfeight
Booth
Tents (enclosed 0133 sides) 10 - 12 10x10 to 30x60
Canopy (open on all sides) 5 2 0X2 0
Staging/Scaffolding 2 Trailer mounted stages
Bleachers

Section 9- ALL THAT APPLY

   

Emergency medical services?

Cross trained volunteers

 

Address:

CitnytateIZip:

 

Name of company providing ns 5 a itatio 

 

Contact Person:

 

Address: ?hone:

 



 

Name of private catering wmpauy? NA

 

Contact Person:

 

Address: Phone:

 



 

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

Li st any streets or possible streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day, date, and time ofmquestcd closing and reopening.
Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for apptoval. Barricadw are not available from the City of Detroit.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

STREET NAME: Jefferson

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FROM: Lakewood To; Newport
PM END TIME:
DATE: 0/6/29/2019 Midnight TIME
STREET La kewood
FROM Jefferson TO: Alley
BEGTIMBJQO PM END TIME:
STREET NAME: EWport
FROM: Jefferson T0.- Alley
CLOSURE PM END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: Midnight TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: IME:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:
STREET NAME:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN 
REOPBN DATE: TIME:

 

10

 

 

 

 

PLEASE ADD IMWRTANT INFORMATION BELOW AND ATTACH A COPY OF THE FOLLOWING:

1 
2)
3)
4)

5)

CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
EMERGENCY MEDICAL AGREEMENT
SANITATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT

COMMUNITY COMMUNICATION

11

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AFFADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief that I have read, understood and agreed to
abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed Special Event, and i
understand that this application is made subject to the rates and regulations established
by the Mayor or the Mayor?s designee. Applicant agrees to compiy with all other
requirements of the City, County, State, and Federal Government and any other
applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to abide by
these rules, and further certify that I, on behalf of the Event agree to be financially
responsible for any costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to
the Christmase-

01/05/2019

 

 

Signature of Applicant Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by
the Special Events Management Team, you wili be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, and/or
restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indemnify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its
agencies, officers, elected of?cials, appointed of?cials and employees) harmless from
and against injury, loss, damage or liability (or any claims in respect of the
foregoing including claims for personal. injury and death, damage to property, and
reasonable outside attorney?s fees) arising from. activities associated with this permit,
except to the extent attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of
the Ci ty.

Applicant affirms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and
Indemnification provision and agrees to the terms expressed therein.

Event Hammlazzin at the Vanity Event
Datedune 28-29. 2019

Event Organizer:
Jefferson East, Inc.

(Mme 06w: 
Applicmt Sigllatme: M. .- . 
Date: 01/05/2019

 

 

12

 

 

 OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA CANCELED

 

 

 

 

Petition 818? Event Name: Demo Day
Event Date: June 141 2019
None

Street Closure:

 

Organization Name: Quicken Loans Community Fund
Street Address: 1050 Woodward Detroit, MI 48226

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk?s Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

Walkathon I: Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance

El Bike Race El Religious Ceremony Political Ceremony

El Filming Parade I: Sports/Recreation
El Fireworks Convention/Conference El Other:

Run/Marathon

Festival

Rally/Demonstration

 

24-Hour Liquor License

 

accommodate 6 food trucks reserved for attendees.

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

Quicken Loans Detroit Demo Day will take place at The Fillmore from 5:00pm - 11:00pm. The parking
lane and adjacent sidewalk will be closed on Elizabeth Street between Woodward and Park to

 

ALL permits and license requirements must be ful?lled for an approval status 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

 

Contracted with Tricon Security Group to

DPD Provide Private Security Services

 

No Permits Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I: I:
EMS
ROW Permit Required
DPW 
Health Dept. Temporary Food License Requried

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
Bike Rack Barricades Required
TED II
No Jurisdiction
Recreation

 

Safety



DD

No Jurisdiction

 

Vendors License Required

 

 

 

 

 

SUBBED

Bus. License 
All Necessary permits must be obtained
?118%ng El prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.
Municipal Purchase of Parking Meters Reqwred
Parking
DDOT No Impact on Buses

 

 



 

 

 

OFFICE
Signature: ?i?w QLLOP Wt
Date: LOW

 

Demo Day City of Detroit Special Events Application

Our Ask

We are requesting approval to have the sidewalk closed on Elizabeth Street.

We would like advice on any additional logistical or safety concerns we should be aware of and are open
to a street closure if necessary.

Our Why?
We will be using the sidewalk space to add food trucks to the Demo Day activities. This will enhance the

guest experience and will supplement the complimentary food that will be served inside the Fillmore.

Event Timing

Demo Day Event: 5:00pm 11:00pm

Pre Party/Food Trucks Service Time: 5:00pm 7:00pm

Requested Sidewalk Closure: 3:00pm 8:00pm

Please note: Load in and load out times can be flexible based on what the city requires.

Food Truck Selection

- Delectabowl

. El Guapo

The Mean Weenie

In Detroit Style Pizza Company

0 Detroit Mini Donut
Contracts will be finalized pending approval from the City of Detroit.
*No liquor will be served outside of The Fillmore.

Trash and Sanitation

All guest trash (food containers, utensils, etc.) will be taken care of by The Fillmore (per contract). Any
trash created by the food trucks internally will be taken by the food trucks themselves at the end of the
event.

Generators and Power
If a food truck requires a generator it will be placed next to the truck. Food truck to obtain necessary
generator permits (if applicable).

 

Security and Barricades

The Fillmore and Rock Security will monitor the sidewalk and food truck area.

We will use bike racks to create barricades in between and around the trucks to keep the area closed to
the public.

 

Meter Permits
The Fillmore will pull the required meter permits.

TE

United States

"imagery ?2019 Googie, Map data @201 9 Google

6r?'i3etroit- 

- 4;




 

 

 

DATE 

9
AICORD CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE 04/15/2019

THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS N0 RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW. THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.

IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policyIies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed.
If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on
this certificate does not confer rights to the certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRODUCER CONTACT
NAME: 
Marsh USA Inc. . I FAT: 
One Towne Square, mm 1100 ExtI= .. N01: 
Soulh?eld, MI 43076 7 7 
INSURERISIAFFORDING COVERAGE 
QLI INSURER A: Great Northern Insurance Company_ 20303 
INSURED . 
Quicken Loans Inc. INSUREB NM 
Attn: Julie Booth Federal Insurance Company 7 20281 
1050 Woodward Avenue . 
Detroit, MI 48226 MIA a i 
ESURE 
INSURER 
COVERAGES CERTIFICATE NUMBER: CHI-00916681441 REVISION NUMBER: 6

 

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQUIREMENT, TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY PERTAIN. THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS.
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.
FOLEY-EFF POLICY EXP

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LTR TYPE OF INSURANCE I wvo POLICY NUMBER LIMITS
A I COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY 3602-83-97 07/31/2018 07/31/2019 EACH OCCURRENCE 3 1,000,000
I I DAMAGE TO 
. CLAIMS-MADE OCCUR PREMISES IEO ace-?mum; 1.000%
7 7 I MED EXP (Any one person) 
7 7 PERSONALB. ADV INJURY ?"9003
AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER: GENERAL AGGREGATE 2.000%
POLICY FEET I I LOC PRODUCTS - AGG 2.000.000
OTHER: 
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY madam} . $7 7 7
ANY AUTO BODILY INJURY (Per person) 
OWNED SCHEDULED . 
AUTOS ONLY AUTOS I BODILY INJURY (Per accrdentI- 
HIRED NON-OWNED PROPERTY OAMAGE 
AUTOS ONLY AUTOS ONLY I {Per 

UMBRELLA LIAB OCCUR 7987-96-91 07/31/2018 07/31/2019 . EACH OCCURRENCE $7 1,0009%
CLAIRE-MADE . AGGREGATE 7s_ 1.000.000
DED I I RETENTION 
WORKERS COMPENSATION PER OTH-
AND LIABILITY i - I STATUTE I ER 
EACH ACCIDENT 
I I IA - 7 
(Mandatory In NH) - E.L DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE 55
If yes. describe under 
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT 5
I
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS I LOCATIONS (ACORD101.AddItional Remarks Schedule. may be attached if more space is required)
Evidence of Insurance
CERTIFICATE HOLDER CANCELLATION
City of Detroit SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
2 Woodward Avenue THE EXPIRATION DATE THEREOF, NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN
DetrOIt. MI 48226 ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.

 

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
of Marsh USA 

Manashi Mukherjee Mama W.
1988-2016 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
ACORD 25 (2016/03) The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD

 

 

 

 

CONFIRMATION OF SERVICES

HART EMS MEDICAL SERVICES, PLLC
220 BAGLEY, SUITE 912
DETROIT, MI 48226
313.366.4278 OR 313.216.1771 FAX

 

Event: Quicken Loans Demo Day Location: Fillmore Theater

  
 

Date of Service: Start to End Time:

June 14, 2019 5:00pm 10:00pm

 

 

 

 

 

 

Services Requested By Client: Quantity: Location:

Medical Provider 1 TBD

 

First Aid Station 1 TBD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Additional Procedures:

 
   

We will increase our compliment of services based on need as the event progresses.

qu7

Adam Gottlieb
Hart EMS Medical Services, PLLC



Date

 

 

 

 

 

 

LTVE 

SPECIAL EVENTS

SPECIAL EVENT AGREEMENT

Wednesday, March 20, 2019

Quicken Loans Inc. ("Client") and Live Nation Worldwide, Inc. do hereby agree on the following terms, conditions and definitions
(the "Agreement?) with regard to Client licensing the premises described below to host Client's upcoming event:

CLIENT:

EVENT:
EVENT NUMBER:
VENUE:

LOCATION IN THE VENUE:
DATE AND TIME 

Load In:
Event:
Load Out:

0TH ER:

Revenue Guarantee:

Event Cost:

Estimated Guest Count:
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:

Agreement due by:

Quicken Loans Inc.

1050 Woodward Avenue Detroit, MI 48226

Janelle Hamood

Telephone: (313) 782?8635 Email: JanelieHamood@QuickenLoans.com
Demo Day ("Event")

DT05757

Fillmore Detroit ("Venue")

2115 Woodward Avenue Detroit,MI 48201

Alix Heinz

Telephone: (313) 230-2602 Email: AlixHeinz@livenation.com
Entire Theatre ("Space")

June 12, 2019, June 13, 2019, June 14, 2019

Begins at 9:00 am on Wednesday, June 12, 2019

1:00 pm to 11:00 pm on Friday, June 14, 2019

Completed by 12:00 am on Friday, June 14, 2019

A minimum of $60,000.00 ("Revenue Guarantee")
$59,080.00 (As more fully described in the Special
Event Order (the "Special Event Order") attached
hereto and incorporated herein by this reference)
1000 ("Estimated Guest Count")

3/20/2019

Certi?cate of Insurance due by:Seven (7) days prior to Event date

Deposit ("Deposit"):

Balance of Event Cost due

Form of payment for

Deposit and Balance of

Event Cost:

Page 1 of 9

An amount equal to ?fty percent of the Event
Cost due upon execution of this Agreement.

IF EVENT IS MORE THAN 90 DAYS OUT:
30 days prior to the Event date

IF EVENT IS LESS THAN 90 DAYS OUT:
7 days prior to the Event date

Payments made less than 14 days prior to the Event may be paid
by cash, credit card, cashier's check, money order, ACH or wire.
Company and personal checks will not be accepted.

Payments made 14 or more days prior to the Event may be paid by
cash, credit card,cashier's check, money order, ACH, wire or
company checks. Personal checks will not be accepted.

Client Initials

LN's standard terms and conditions are attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by this reference.

Client's Designee (whom Client warrants has/have full authority to commit Client's funds and to authorize expenditures of monies on
Client's behalf in connection with the Event):

Name: Janelle Hamood
ACCEPTED AND AGREED as of the date ?rst written above:
Quicken Loans Inc.

El
Janelle I?mood reqr??s'enting Q?uicken Loans Inc.

 

 

LIVE NATION WORLDWIDE, INC.

 

Alix Heinz representing LN

Date:

 

Page 2 of 9 9?SLClient Initials

EXHIBIT A
SPECIAL EVENT AGREEMENT
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1. Purpose and Term.

A. LN grants to Client the privilege and license to use the Space to present the Event during the hours provided above. Client
agrees to reimburse LN for any overtime wages, payments or other expenses incurred if the Event lasts longer than the agreed?upon
hours. Unless othenNise agreed to in writing by LN, Client shall not sell tickets to or promote the Event to the general public.

a signed copy of this Agreement and the Deposit have not been received by LN prior to the date provided above, LN shall have
the right to contract with other parties for the use of the Space without further notice to Client.

2. Financial Settlement.

A.Client agrees to pay to LN the costs and charges for all necessary staf?ng and operational services provided by LN in connection
with the Event, including, without limitation, catering, security, traf?c control, entertainment, production, ushers, janitors and the room
rental fees.

B.Client agrees to spend at least the Revenue Guarantee on Event room rental fees, beverage, catering and production costs. This
minimum does not include any applicable taxes, administrative fee (fees for administrative overhead, documentation, preparations and
proper management of the Event; such administrative fee is not, nor is it intended to be, a service charge, tip or gratuity for wait staff,
service employees or service bartenders), retail, tickets, talent charges and any other charges set forth in the Special Event Order.
Such amount is the Revenue Guarantee and may not be reduced and is independent of the Final Guest Count or the actual guest count.

C.The Event Cost is an initial estimate of the total cost of the Event listed in the Special Event Order, which sets forth the menu,
accommodations and logistics for the Event in greater detail. The Special Event Order may be amended by the parties to re?ect any
changes to the Event. For purposes of this Agreement, execution of an amended Special Event Order increasing total costs associated
with the Event will amend the Event Cost such that it matches the Event cost set forth in the revised Special Event Order. The Event
Cost and the amounts set forth in the Special Event Order are good faith estimates of the total cost of the Event. The actual cost for the
Event may increase based on Client's subsequent requirements or requests, and Client agrees to pay all such costs in excess of the
Event Cost.

D. An Estimated Guest Count will be included on the ?rst page of the Agreement. Client will provide a Final Guaranteed
Guest Count to LN no later than 11:00am seven (7) days prior to the Event ("Final Guaranteed Guest Count"). If the Event Cost is
based on a per guest charge, Client will be charged according to the Estimated Guest Count, the Final Guaranteed Guest Count or the
actual guest count, whichever is greater. LN does not guarantee that it can accommodate food, beverages and other services for more
than ?ve percent above the Estimated Guest Count.

E.The Deposit shall be paid as provided under "Additional Requirements? in this Agreement. The balance of the Event Cost is due
in a form of payment provided under "Additional Requirements" in this Agreement. All additional charges incurred for and/or during the
Event are due on the night of the Event, paid by cash or a valid major credit card. Personal checks are not accepted.

order to guarantee payment for balances due and any additional charges incurred during and/or for the Event, a credit card
authorization form, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit B, must be completed, signed and returned with
this Agreement. The completed credit card form authorizes LN to process any and all outstanding balances due, including liquidated
damages. Client's execution of this Agreement and the attached credit card authorization form authorizes LN to process charges set
forth above against the credit card without further notice to Client. If any payment is not received by LN when due, LN may terminate
the Agreement and retain the Deposit. The Deposit is refundable only in the event of a Force Majeure Occurrence as provided in
Section 16.6 below.

G. The parties acknowledge that it would be extremely dif?cult, if not impossible, to determine with certainty the damages
which LN would suffer in the event of Client's cancellation due to the dif?culty in re-selling the Space, and, accordingly, the parties have
agreed upon the liquidated damages set forth below as fair and reasonable compensation for such damages:

 

Davs prior to Event: of Revenue Guarantee
30 Days or More 75% of the Revenue Guarantee
0?29 Days 100% of the Revenue Guarantee

 

 

 

 

 

 

All cancellation notices must be made in writing. The liquidated damages, less any Deposits already received, shall be paid to LN by
Client within three (3) business days following Client's cancellation of the Event.

3. Parking. The following shall apply if parking is ordinarily available at the Venue:

A.All parking operations shall be conducted by LN's designated parking concessionaire unless otherwise agreed in writing by LN.
Client's delivery arrangements that require a loading dock must be coordinated with LN forty eight (48) hours in advance of use. All
proceeds of parking operations shall be retained solely by LN. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should Client elect not to charge its
guests for parking, the cost for parking shall be added as a line item expense to the Special Event Order.

B. LN shall not be responsible, under any circumstances, for any loss or damage occurring to automobiles brought to the Venue by
Client's employees, subcontractors or guests.

4. Concessions.

A.Unless othenNise provided in the Special Event Order, LN's designated food and beverage concessionaire ("Concessionaire") shall
sell all food and beverages and retain one hundred percent (100%) of the pro?ts therefrom. Client shall work with LN regarding all
commercially reasonable food and beverage related matters, including, without limitation, requests involving the service of alcoholic
beverages. If merchandise will be available for sale during the Event, designated merchandise vendor shall sell the merchandise
and retain a mutually agreed upon portion of merchandise revenue, net of tax, credit card processing fees and

Page 3 of 9 A-l Client Initials

bootleg security.

food or beverage of any kind may be brought onto the Venue without prior express written permission from LN. Client and its
guests are not permitted to take any items "to go.? Client expressly acknowledges that LN and the Concessionaire have the right to
make reasonable substitutions on the menu when necessary to protect the health of its patrons.

the event that LN permits Client to utilize a third party catering service ("Outside Caterer") to provide food services, Client
shall pay LN the Concession Buyout Fee, if applicable, and ensure that such Outside Caterer will:

i. not provide alcoholic beverages; and

ii. indemnify and hold the LN Parties (as herein de?ned) and Concessionaire harmless from any claims, suits, losses,
injuries, liability and damages (including reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs) (collectively, "Claims") arising in connection with
the Outside Caterer's acts, omissions, negligence or services.
5. Booth Commercial Space. In the event that Client desires to sell booth/commercial space ("Booth Space") at the Venue to
vendors or exhibitors or otherwise permit vendors or exhibitors at the Venue in connection with the Event, Client shall comply with the
following provisions:

A. Client will ?rst obtain LN's approval of each Booth.

B. Client will be solely responsible for causing Booths to comply with applicable law and applicable Venue rules and
regulations.

C. Client will be solely responsible for ensuring payment of any and all taxes or other fees associated with the Booths or

the use of the Booth Space.
6. Use of LN Name Recording Rights/ Photography.

A. Client may use the Venue name and/or logo in printed materials or media used to announce or promote the Event;
provided that Client obtains LN's prior approval in each instance.
B. Unless Client executes the Recording Addendum, Client shall not conduct or permit any photography, ?lm, video, audio

or other recording of the Event to take place. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Client?s guests may photograph and record the Event for
their personal use.

C. LN shall be permitted to photograph and record the Event (the Recordings") and use the LN Recordings solely for
the purpose of promoting or marketing the business of LN or its affiliates, or any properties which they respectively own, operate or
manage, on LN's or its affiliates' (ii) on LN's or its affiliates' social media pages (including "channels" on You Tube or any
similar social media website), in LN's or its af?liates? email and text blasts, or (iv) for installation or display (including use in printed
collateral) at such properties (collectively, the Marketing"). LN owns all rights in and to the LN Recordings.

D. To the extent any recording of the Event is permitted by LN (the "Client Recordings"), Client grants to LN a worldwide,
unlimited, irrevocable, royalty-free and perpetual license to reproduce, display, transmit and copy those Client Recordings which have
been previously broadcasted, transmitted or otherwise made available to the general public by Client {in whatever manner, format or
media), solely for the purpose of LN Marketing. LN shall not edit or modify any Client Recording except that LN may "crop" or use only
a selected portion of a Client Recording as may be necessary to integrate a Client Recording into LN or its af?liates' applicable
promotional or marketing materials as contemplated herein. The rights granted to LN under this Agreement shall not othenNise affect
Client's exclusive ownership of the Client Recordings. Solely for the purposes contemplated in this paragraph, Client agrees to make a
reasonable amount or number of Client Recordings available to LN in a fomiat requested by LN, at LN's expense, in order to permit LN
to use the Client Recordings as authorized herein.

7. Charitable Donations. In the event that LN permits and Client obtains the right to collect charitable donations in connection with
the Event, Client warrants and represents that it will comply with all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances imposed by any
governmental authority in collecting said donations. Client further agrees that it will be solely responsible for all tax and other liability
related to such donations.

8. Tickets. If Client's guests will be attending a scheduled show at the Venue, Client must purchase tickets for the show in advance.
LN cannot guarantee ticket availability until tickets are purchased. All ticket purchases are non-refundable regardless of any change in
guest count.

9. Talent and Production Fees. Client may engage LN to assist with booking talent for the Event pursuant to a separate booking
agreement. If electing to book its own talent for the Event, Client will provide LN a fully signed copy of the contract and all riders, will
obtain all required rights, consents and licenses necessary in connection with the performance and will pay LN a booking fee equal to
ten percent of the applicable guarantee. Client agrees to indemnify and hold LN harmless for all

Claims arising from such talent. A separate production fee will be charged based on the talent's rider requirements.

10. Use and Condition of Venue.

A.General Policies. LN reserves the right to exclude or eject any and all objectionable persons from the Event or the Venue without
liability.

B.Acceptance of Venue. Client accepts the condition of the Venue as is and agrees to return the Venue to LN in the same condition
as accepted by Client. Client has determined that the Venue is in satisfactory condition, ?tness and order suitable for presentation of
the Event.

Alterations or Improvements. Client shall not paint, drill into or in any way mar or deface any part of the Venue. Client shall
pay LN for the cost of repairing any damage to the Venue caused by the Event within three (3) business days of the Event. Client shall
not make any alterations or improvements in or to the Venue without prior LN consent.

D. Abandoned Property. LN will have the full right to collect and have custody of all articles and personal property left on
the Venue or at the Venue after the expiration of the Term. Any property so left will be deemed abandoned by Client and may be
disposed of by LN, as LN sees without any liability for any loss, damages or costs associated with such disposal, which liability will
rest solely with Client.

Page 4 of 9 A-2 Client Initials

E.PROHIBITED OBJECTS AND ACTIVITIES AT VENUE. WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF LN, THE FOLLOWING ARE
NOT PERMITTED IN THE VENUE OR THE SURROUNDING PROPERTY AT ANY TIME: OUTSIDE ALCOHOLIC 
INTERACTIVE PHYSICAL GAMES AND MECHANICAL ONSITE BODY ART AND EXOTIC AND
PYROTECHNICS.

11. Representations, Warranties and Covenants.

A.LN hereby represents and warrants that it has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to engage in the
transaction contemplated hereby and that this Agreement is a valid obligation of LN and is binding upon LN.

B.Client hereby represents and warrants that it has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to engage in the
transaction contemplated hereby and that this Agreement is a valid obligation of the Client and is binding upon the Client.

C.During the Term, Client shall obey and comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of all governmental
authorities in connection with the Event. Client will be responsible for obtaining and paying for all licenses or permits necessary for
holding the Event, including, but not limited to, tax requirements and any permits required by governmental authorities for pyrotechnics
or laser use.

12. Indemni?cation.

addition to any other indemni?cation requirements set forth herein, Client agrees to indemnify, defend and hold LN (and its
landlord(s), if any), and their respective parents, members, partners, af?liates, divisions and subsidiaries, and their respective officers,
directors, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives (collectively, Parties") harmless from and against any and all Claims
arising or alleged to have arisen out of: the negligence or willful misconduct of Client or its employees, agents, volunteers,
contractors, patrons, guests, invitees, participants and performing artists involved in the event; (ii) the presentation or performance of
the Event; and/or Client's breach of any provision of this Agreement. The parties agree, however, that Client shall not be obligated
to defend or indemnify a LN Party for any Claims that arise out of such LN Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct.

B.Client agrees to use and occupy the venue and to place material, equipment and other property therein at its own risk and
releases the LN parties from all claims for any damage or injury arising therefrom.

C.The indemni?cation provisions contained throughout this Agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

D.Client will be solely responsible for the conduct and activities of Client?s employees, agents, contractors, guests and invitees and,
for purposes of this Agreement, such conduct and activities shall be deemed conduct and activities of Client.

E. Neither party will, under any circumstances, be liable for any incidental, punitive, exemplary, speculative or any consequential
damages arising out of the services provided under this Agreement; provided that the foregoing shall not be construed to cover any
third party Claim with respect to which a party has committed to indemnify the other party herein.

13. Insurance Requirements. Client will maintain and pay all premium costs for, and will ensure that all contractors of Client maintain
and pay for, insurance the coverages in amounts not less than speci?ed throughout the duration of the Term as set forth in Exhibit 
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. If a compliant certi?cate of insurance is not received by LN when due, LN may
terminate the Agreement and retain the Deposit.

14. Sponsorships and Signage.

A.Client understands and agrees that LN has entered into signage and sponsorship relationships related to the
Venue for which LN will retain all proceeds. LN reserves all rights to display signage at, on or near the Venue property. No signs or
advertising boards, other than those authorized by LN, will be allowed into, on or near the Venue. Client will not mark, cover or attempt
to modify any signage at, on or near the Venue.

B.Client is required to obtain LN's prior written approval of any sponsorship relationships into which Client desires to enter for the
Event.

15. Alcoholic Beverage Service. LN strictly complies with all regulations relating to the sale, service and consumption of alcoholic
beverages. All LN staff are trained on, and LN requires all guests adhere to, the following principles:

accordance with state laws, LN does not serve alcohol to minors under any circumstances, nor does LN allow persons who
appear to be intoxicated to enter the Venue. Prior to service, guests must present current federal/state identi?cation as proof of age.

B. LN does not permit outside alcohol to be brought into the Venue. Any guest caught bringing outside alcohol into the Venue or in
possession of outside alcohol will be ejected from the Venue and prohibited from re-entry. If underage, a Security Of?cer will remain
with the guest until a school of?cial/parent/chaperone is able to escort the guest safely home. LN does not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to anyone who is, or appears to be, intoxicated.

C. LN does not knowingly allow individuals to become intoxicated at the Venue (whether they are consuming alcohol purchased at
the Venue or outside alcohol brought into the Venue).

D.LN does not permit any individual to leave the Venue with alcohol, opened or unopened.

E. LN does not permit ?rearms, weapons or illegal drugs in the Venue.

16. Miscellaneous.

A.Third Party Bene?ciaries. This Agreement does not confer any rights or bene?ts upon any persons or entities other than LN and
Client and their permitted, respective successors and assigns.

B. Relationship of the Parties. Nothing contained in this Agreement will be deemed to constitute LN and Client as partners or joint
venturers. Each party acknowledges and agrees that it neither has nor will give the appearance or impression of having any legal
authority to bind or commit the other party in any way.

C. Entire Agreement and Modi?cation. This Agreement and the Special Event Order contain the entire agreement between the
parties relating to the subject matter hereof and all prior agreements related hereto which are not contained herein are terminated.
This Agreement may not be amended, revised or terminated except by a written instrument executed by the party against which
enforcement of the amendment, revision or termination is asserted. The parties acknowledge and agree that, when fully signed, the
Special Event Order will expressly amend, modify and supersede the Event Cost.

Page 5 of 9 A-3 Client Initials

D.Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state in which the Venue
is located, without giving effect to its choice of law principlesspeci?cally agreed and understood that LN has the right to occupy and use the Venue during the Term and to
license any portion thereof, provided that such use or license does not materially interfere with Client's use of the Venue.

F. Utilities. No interruption or malfunction of any utility services, whether such services are provided by LN or arranged for by
Client, shall constitute an eviction or disturbance of Client's use and possession of the Venue or a breach by LN of any obligations
hereunder, (ii) render LN liable for damages or entitle Client to be relieved of any obligations hereunder. In the event of any such
interruption of service provided by LN, LN is obligated to use reasonable diligence to restore such service.

G.Force Majeure. The failure of any party hereto to comply with the terms and conditions hereof because of a "Force Majeure
Occurrence" shall not be deemed a breach of this Agreement. "Force Majeure Occurrence" shall be de?ned to include, without
limitation, Acts of God, strike, labor disputes, war, ?re, earthquake, serious weather anomalies such as hurricane, tornado, cyclone,
typhoon, blizzard, tidal wave, tsunami or ?ood, acts of public enemies, acts of terrorism, epidemic, action of federal, state or local
governmental authorities or an event or reason beyond the reasonable control of a party that makes performance impossible or
impracticable. In the event of a cancellation of the Event due to a Force Majeure Occurrence, each party shall be relieved of its
obligations hereunder with respect to the performance so prevented. In such event neither party shall have a claim against the other
party except that Client shall be responsible for bearing the cost of any unrecovered expenses actually incurred prior to such
cancellation. LN shall refund Deposits received from Client applicable to the performance so prevented to the extent they are greater
than unrecovered expenses.

H.Taxes. Any and all sales tax, entertainment tax or other tax imposed by local, state, provincial or federal government as a result
of the presentation of the Event and/or performance of any services rendered by LN in connection with this Agreement hereunder, shall
be the responsibility of and paid for by Client at the time required by law (excepting any state or federal income tax imposed on LN). If
Client is tax exempt, Client must provide a copy of Client's tax exemption certi?cate issued by the state in which the Venue is located to
LN upon execution of this Agreement.

I. Waiver and Invalidity. If either party fails to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement or any rights or fails to
exercise any election provided in this Agreement, it will not be considered to be a waiver of those provisions, rights or elections or in
any way affect the validity of this Agreement. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement is held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will
in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.

J. Prevailing Party. If either party institutes an action or proceeding against the other to enforce the terms of this Agreement, then
the prevailing party in such action or proceeding will be entitled to recover from the other party the reasonable attorneys? fees and
costs incurred therein.

K. Notices. All notices given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally with
receipt acknowledged or sent by registered or certi?ed mail or equivalent, if available, return receipt requested, or by email (which shall
be con?rmed by a writing sent by registered or certi?ed mail or equivalent on the same day that such email is sent), or by nationally
recognized overnight courier for next day delivery, addressed or sent to the parties at the addresses set forth herein with a copy to Live
Nation Worldwide, Inc., rose Hollywood Blvd, Hollywood, California 90028, Attn: Senior Counsel, Legal Operations,
legalhob@livenation.com.

L. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by facsimile and PDF and in any number of counterparts, and each of such
counterparts shall be deemed an original.

Page 6 of 9 A-4 Client Initials

EXHIBIT 
SPECIAL EVENT AGREEMENT
CREDIT CARD AUTHORIZATION FORM

This form must be ?lled out completely

CLIENT: Quicken Loans Inc.

EVENT NAME: Demo Day
EVENT DATE: Friday, June 14, 2019

EVENT NUMBER: DT05757

The following states that (name as it appears on the credit
card) authorizes LN to charge the attached credit card.

Indicate the Type of Credit Card:
El AMEX

El Visa

El MasterCard

Discover

Credit Card Number:

 

Expiration Date: Security Code:

Amount to be charged: All charges for the Event on Friday, June 14, 2019 (Date)

Name of Card Holder:
(Please print clearly)

 

Signature of Card Holder:?
(Signature must match name of card holder)

Card Holder's Phone Number:

 

Credit Card Billing Address:

 

 

City: State: Zip:

At time of execution of the Agreement, this credit card authorization must be on ?le with a valid credit card. If the estimated balance is
not received when due as provided in the Agreement, LN may charge this credit card for the estimated balance. This credit card will also
serve as a payment guarantee for all other outstanding amounts due per the Agreement, including liquidated damages and all additional
charges incurred during ancifor for the Event. Client's execution of the Agreement and this credit card authorization form authorizes LN
to process charges set forth above against the Credit card without further notice to Client.

Page 7 of 9 B-1 Client Initials

EXHIBIT 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

CORPORATE CLIENT, WITH MORE THAN 250 GUESTS PRODUCTION IN EXCESS OF HOUSE SOUND AND
LIGHTS:

A. Statutory Workers' Compensation including Employer's Liability Insurance, subject to a limit of not less than One Million Dollars
affording coverage under applicable worker?s compensation laws. Client will cause, if allowed by law, its workers'
compensation carrier to waive insurer's right of subrogation with respect to the LN Parties.

B. Commercial General Liability insurance subject to limits of not less than Five Million Dollars per occurrence
(primary and umbrella total) for any bodily injury and/ or property damage claims, personal and advertising injury or products and
completed operations liability.

C. If Client will bring one or more vehicles onto the Venue premise, Automobile Liability Insurance subject to a limit of not less than
One Million Dollars combined and covering all owned, non?owned and hired vehicles.

Policies and above shall list Live Nation Worldwide, Inc. (and its landlords, if any), and their respective parents, members, partners,
af?liates, divisions and subsidiaries, and their respective of?cers, directors, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives as
"Additional Insureds" with respect to any and all claims arising from Client's operations.

At least seven (7) days prior to the Event date, Client shall provide LN Certi?cate(s) of Insurance compliant with the aforementioned
required endorsements. The certi?cate holder shall be Live Nation Worldwide, Inc. and the Additional Insured language shall be exactly
as described above. Such coverage shall be primary and not contributory to any insurance maintained by LN and contain a waiver of
subrogation in favor of LN. All required insurance will be placed with carriers licensed to do business in the applicable state, have a
rating in the most current edition of AM. Best's Property Casualty Key Rating Guide of A-VII or better and will provide thirty (30) days
written notice of cancellation or non-renewal. Failure of Client to provide the requested certi?cates, or failure of LN to speci?cally
request such certi?cates, shall not limit or release Client of its obligations or liabilities hereunder. Policy above may not be written on
a 1996 or earlier ISO General Liability coverage form. Please see the sample Description of Operations and Certi?cate Holder sections of
a compliant Certi?cate of Insurance below for guidance.

[residuum-or - Vll?flE-?i ?in mm mm or EI-JORSEEIH incur?Pm:
Lu:- Narro 11 hit. or all ills land?ll or lions-r, apII'h'raMo, all] tat-Ir oi lboir parlor". pa?nm, a?ilialor, :ubsidiarin. all] assigns
irnlleriit 1- . anin"! and lid: rupe?iw o?'icon. diroclor'i. shareholders. employees. age-l5 "prose-marlin; are Primary and Non-tol?ilrl?rry

   

u.r as rapt-?n to the ?pecan-u of lie Saul-II insured. ils unis. engrlop'ns. aarl contractors bur only will: "soul Io liability

II ris be It? or omissions II oar-rd ins-nil; and quiz-5? nth-r person or organization [or whose ad or rte until inland is required lo
im 119% ?lm contra", In: My lo Ih run-n! of do liabil'm' ass-um! under such court-act. [?nm liability is included in Gonna] Lialrilily. ?fairer of

tub app-Hr: to all m'l?l'l'l'ti.

Adrlili?n

 

 

is? HOLDER cmcaunou
mourn ANY OF arm mo mucus BE CANCELLED BEFORE
NaIion Worldwide. Inc mum DATE Home WILL at DEINERED Ill

do LM Ma?a-j 511%, Inc. MINCE WITH THE POLICY I?m.

 

Drive
Bondy mrucmozro



 

 



 

 

ACORD 25 (201N135) 0 1988-2010 ACORD CUIPORATION. All right! nun-II.

In lieu of providing evidence of the policies listed above, Client may purchase a policy through the Venue's Tenant User Liability
Insurance Program (TULIP).

The insurance obligations stated in this section are independent of, and shall not be affected by the scope or validity of, any other
indemnity or insurance provisions in other sections of this Agreement.

Client will ensure that all of its contractors (including, without limitation, sponsors, Booth Vendors and Outside Caterers arranged by
Client) who will be entering the Venue to engage in any business activity (including, without limitation, sampling, distributing, vending
or other commercial activity) will maintain the following insurance coverages: Statutory Workers Compensation, including employer's
liability, to the extent required by applicable law; (ii) Commercial General Liability with a combined single limit of not less than One
Million Dollars per occurrence; and if contractor will bring one or more vehicles onto the Venue premise, Business
Automobile Liability for all owned, hired or non?owned vehicles to be driven onto the Venue, with a combined single limit of not less
than One Million Dollars Satisfactory evidence of coverage must be provided to LN upon request. LN reserves the right
to require higher insurance limits and require that the contractor name LN as an Additional Insured depending on the nature of services
being provided by the contractor.

Page 8 of 9 C-1 Client Initials

RECORDING ADDENDUM
This Recording Addendum (this "Addendum") supplements the Special Event Agreement (the "Agreement") dated Wednesday, March
20, 2019 by and between Quicken Loans Inc. ("Client") and Live Nation Worldwide, Inc. 
1. All capitalized terms used but not de?ned in this Addendum shall have the same meanings set forth in the Agreement.
2. License. LN hereby grants Client the right to enter into the Venue on the Event date to ?lm, photograph, record, broadcast
and/or transmit the Event (collectively, "Record" or "Recording"). Client may Record solely in locations approved by Venue staff. Client
may not use additional lighting without the approval of Venue staff. Client may not digitally manipulate or otherwise alter the image of
the Venue without the prior written consent of LN. Client must work with a Venue coordinator in preparing and undertaking the
planning, logistics and execution of Recording and to abide by all reasonable recommendations and requirements of the coordinator.
3. Clearances and Equipment.

A. Client will be responsible for obtaining and paying all required rights and clearances that may be necessary in
connection with Recording the Event, including without limitation releases from the artists and musicians, and licenses from applicable
publishers, record labels, public performance organizations and any other third party rights holders.

B. Client will be responsible for all costs associated with Recording, including without limitation equipment, security,
of?ce space and equipment, catering and supplemental labor. LN may require payment in advance of Recording at its discretion and
will provide Client with an estimate of such costs when possible.

4. Ownership. Subject to the following, Client and its assigns will own all rights in and to the footage and other material resulting
from Recording the Event ("Material").

A.Client may use the Material for non-commercial archival and editorial purposes. Client will have no right to use the Material in
whole or in part for any commercial purpose without the written consent of LN and the performing artist(s), where applicable. A
commercial purpose includes without limitation the license or sale of the Material in any media now known or hereafter created, and the
use of the Material for advertising or promoting the Event or Client and its assigns.

B.Upon payment of the Origination Fee and any union fees described below, Client may use the Material for a commercial purpose
throughout the universe, in perpetuity, in any manner and in any media, whether now known or later created.

5. Union Fees. Client will be responsible for any and all fees due to Venue staff as may be required under Venue's collective
bargaining agreements for Recording the Event. LN may require payment of such fees in advance of the Recording at its discretion
and will provide Client with an estimate of the fees when possible. If Client and its assignees subsequently choose to exploit the
Material for a commercial purpose as described above, Client must pay additional fees to LN to cover required fees due to Venue staff.
6. LN Properties. Client will not use any LN or Venue names, marks or other properties owned by LN or its af?liated companies or
sponsors (collectively "Properties") in connection with the Material without the express written consent by LN. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Client may include Properties in the Material solely as they may appear on signs on display at the Venue at the time of
Recording; provided that to the extent any signs display third party trademarks, Client will either (1) obtain the necessary consent from
the third party to include its trademarks in the Material, or (2) blur the trademarks within the Material so that they are not
distinguishable. LN and Venue will be credited in any broadcast or other publication of the Recording as follows: "Recorded at Fillmore
Detroit by permission of Live Nation Worldwide, Inc.".

7. No Disparaging Remarks. Client represents, warrants and covenants that the Material and the exploitation of the Material will not
include any disparaging remarks, comments or actions about or toward the Venue or the LN Parties.
8. Insurance. If the Recording is being used for non?editorial commercial purposes, in addition to any other insurance requirements

set forth herein, Client shall maintain appropriate Errors and Omissions coverage 0 Coverage") applicable to the Recording with
limits of not less than One Million Dollars Such 0 Coverage shall have standard coverage, including, but not
limited to, defamation, infringement of copyright, infringement of rights in material to be broadcast or in the manner of presentation
thereof, invasion of privacy rights and unauthorized use of material.
9. Grant of License. Client grants to LN a worldwide, unlimited, irrevocable, royalty-free and perpetual license to reproduce, display,
transmit and copy only those Recordings which have been previously broadcasted, transmitted or othenNise made available to the
general public by Client or its designee(s) (in whatever manner, format or media), solely for the purpose of LN Marketing. LN shall not
edit or modify any Recording except that LN may "crop" or use only a selected portion of a Recording as may be necessary to integrate
3 Recording into LN or its af?liates' applicable promotional or marketing materials solely as contemplated herein. The rights granted to
LN under this Agreement shall not othenNise affect Client's exclusive ownership of the Recordings. Solely for the purposes contemplated
in this paragraph, Client agrees to make a copy of the Recordings available to LN, at LN's expense, in order to permit LN to use the
Recordings as authorized herein.

ACCEPTED AND AGREED

 

Janelle Hamood representing Quicken Loans Inc.

Date:

 

LIVE NATION WORLDWIDE, INC.

 

Alix Heinz representing LN

Date:

 

Page 9 of 9 Recording Addendum?1 Client Initials

 uf I'Betmit

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caner: West

Janice M. Ililiniire?r - 


City Clerk

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, April 24, 2019

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petitiOn is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
Within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT
DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT

818 Quicken Loans Community Fund, request permission to hold ?Demo Day" at
The Filmore on 6/1 4/1 9 from 5PM - 11PM, Set-up on 6/12/19 - 6/14/19 at
9AM to 5PM, Year down on 6/14/19 after event, Street closure on Elizabeth
Street, from Woodward to Park Ave.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center . Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 I Fax (313) 224?1466

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the 1esult of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork.
The City of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the Special Events Guidelines; please print them
out f0r reference. Petitioners are required to complete the information below so that the City of
Detroit may gain a thorough understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be
completed and returned to the Special Events and Film Handling Office at least 60 days prior to
the first date of the event. If submitted later than 60 days prior. application is subject to denial.
Please type or print clearly and attach additional sheets and maps as needed.

 

Section 1- GENERAL 

?ent Name?pemo Day 

 

. Fillmore 

Is this going to be an annual event?? El Yes . No

 

Section 2- 

 

Organ-mm Name. Quicken Loans Community Fund
Organization Mailing Addresg: 1050 WOOdward DetFOit, Ml 48226

Business Phone:(313) 782-9554 Business Website: wmm.quickenloans.org

Applicant Name: Lauren 
(734) 678-5161 (734) 678-5161 

Business Phone: Cell Phone: 
Event On-Site Contact Person:

Moore 
(313) 782'8339 CellPhone:(517) 719'9700 

 

Business Phone:

Event Elements (check all that apply)

 

]Walkathon ]Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance
]Run/Marathon ]Bike Race ]Religious Ceremony
]Politicai Event 1 ]Festival ]Filming
Parade Sports/Recreation Rallnyemonslration
[J]Convention/Conference ]Fireworks ]Othcr:

Projected Number of Attendees: 2?00_0_ 

Please provide a brief description of your event:
From hundreds of applicants, 15 entrepreneurs will be selected to pitch their company live at Quicken

Loans Detroit Demo Day.

The ?nalist companies include new startups, existing small businesses, and nationally expanding
ventures.

 

 

 

 

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be completed)?

 

 

Begin Set-up Date 06/12/2019 Time:9:00a Complete Set-up Date:06/14/2019 Time:5:00pm
Event Start Date:06/14/2019 Time'5:00pm Event End Date:06/14/2019 Time:11:00pm
Begin Tearing Down Date?6/14/20 19 Complete Tear Down Date:06/14/2019

 

Event Times (If more than one day. give times for each day):

5:00pm-11:00pm

 

 

Section 3- 

Location of Event:The Fillmore

Facilities to be use?C hec k) Street I Sidewalk I Park City
Facility

Please attach a copy of Port-a-John, Sanitation, and Emergency Medical Agreements as well as a site plan which illustrates the
anticipated layout of your event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid

-Location of merchandising booths -Location of tire lane

-Location of food booths -Proposed route for 
-Location of garbage receptacles -Location of tents and canopies
Location of beverage booths -Sketch of street closure

-Location of sound stages -Location of bleachers

-Location of hand washing sinks -Location ofpress area

Location of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

You will be prompted to upload these attachments upon submitting this form
Section 4- 

 

Describe the entertainment for this year?s event:

The night concludes with a live musical performance from a top national artist.

Will a sound system be used? . Yes No

?yes. what type ofsound system'P-I-he Fillmore House Sound

 

Describe speci?c power needs for entertainment and/or music:

The Fillmore will provide all power for entertainment. Food trucks will not need to use generator power.

How many generators will be used? 

 

How will the generators be fueled?



 

 

Name of vendor providing generators:

Contact Person:N A

 

Address: Phone:

City/StateJZip

 

Section 5- SALES 

Will there be advanced ticket sales? Yes No
If yes. please describe:

Will there be on-site ticket sales? Yes . No
If yes. list priee(s):

Will there be vending or sales? . Yes No
If yes. check all that apply:

Vi Food Merchandise Non?Alcoholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages

Indicate type of items to be sold:

Food and beverage.

 

   

Section (1- PUBLIC PARKING 
Name of Private Security security 
Contact Person:Michae  Wnitta ker

Address:6800 Roosevelt Ave #726 (0)248-356-

t'ityISLalL-Mip;
Allen Ml 48101

Number of Private Securily l?ersmmel Hired Per Sliili:

2 0
Are the private security personnel (check all that apply):

Licensed Armed Bonded

 

How 1will you advise attendeCs of parking options?
We are not prov:dmg parking to attendees.

 

 

   

Section 7- ii 

How will your event impact the surrounding community (Le. pedestrian traf?c. sound carryover, safety)?



Have local neighborhood groupsfbusinesses approved your event? . Yes No

Ind'catu what ste yet have or will take to til?yl nt'wur vent:
We Ihave a Signed contract With The Fillmore - ee attached.

 

Section 8- SET-UP

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event Structure

How Many? Size/Height
Booth
Tents (enclosed on 3 sides)
Canopy (open on all sides)

Staging/Scaffo Iding



Bleachers

Section 9- A LL THAT APPLY

 

Emergency medical services?

Contact Personzjosh Alger

Bagley Ste 912

City/State/ZiPIDetroit, Ml 48226

Name of company providing [um-a-johns. 

Contact Person:

Address: Phone:
City/StateJZip:

Name of private catering company? 

Contact Person:

Address: Phone:

City! tatefZi p:

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day. date. and time of requested closing and reopening.
Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval. Barricades are not available from the City of Detroit.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

Elizabeth Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME:

FROM: Woodward Park Ave

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN I E:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: To:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: I E:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: - 
CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN TI E:
REOPEN DATE: TIM E:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN TIM E:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

 

10

 

 

 

 

PLEASE ADD IMPORTA NT INFORMATION BELOW AND ATTACH A COPY OF THE FOLLOWINGare looking to get approval to close the sidewalk on Elizabeth Street. We will be placing 5-6 food

CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
EMERGENCY MEDICAL AGREEMENT
SANITATION AGREEMENT
PORT-A-JOHN AGREEMENT

COMMUNITY COMMUNICATION

trucks in the metered spots on the street.

We are waiting for con?rmation from the follwoing food trucks:
- Chick A Dee

- Delectabowl

- Mac Shack

- The Mean Weenie

- Dinky Donut

Please see the following attachments:
- Contract with The Fillmore

Map of Food Truck Location

- EMS Proof of Service

11

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AF FADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief that I have read. understood and agreed to
abide by the rules and regulations governing the pr0posed Special Event, and I
understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulations established
by the Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other
requirements of the City, County, State. and Federal Government and any other
applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to abide by
these rules, and further certify that on behalf of the Event agree to be ?nancially
responsible for any costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to
the City it" 
04/12/2019

 

Signature of Applicant Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by
the Special Events Management Team, you will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, and/or
restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indemnify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its
agencies, officers, elected of?cials, appointed of?cials and employees) harmless from
and against injury, loss, damage or liability (or any claims in respect of the
foregoing including claims for personal injury and death, damage to property, and
reasonable outside attorney?s fees) arising from activities associated with this permit,
except to the extent attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of
the City.

Applicant affirms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and
Indemnification provision and agrees to the terms expressed therein.

Event Name:Dem? Day Event
Date:06/l4/2019

 

Event Organizer:
Quicken Community Fund

Dg?ff'lt?'?- Kaye-{om
Applicant Signature: .- .. .
Date: 04/12/2019

 

 

12

 

 

 OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT

 

 

 

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA CANCELED

 

Petition 661 Event Name: BarOUdeur

 

August 17, 2019
None

Event Date 

 

Street Closure:

 

Organization Name: Wayne State 

 

Street Address: 5700 Cass Avenue Detroit, MI 48202

 

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk's Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

Walkathon Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance El Run/Marathon
Bike Race Religious Ceremony Political Ceremony El Festival
Filming Parade '3 Sports/Recreation Rally/Demonstration

Fireworks Convention/Conference Other: R'de LunCh on WSU Campus
24-Hour Liquor License

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

Non - competitive cycling event from 7:00am - 6:00pm starting/ending at Wayne State University -
Gullen Mall with four separate routes throughout Detroit and Grosse Pointe; with after race party at
Gullen Mall.

 

 

ALL permits and license requirements must be ful?lled for an approval status 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

 

DPD Assisted Events; Contracted with

DPD WSUPD to Provide Private Security

Services

 

Contracted with Hart Medical to Provide

 

 

 

 

El Private EMS Services
EMS
DPD Assisted Event; No Permits Required
DPW 
Health Dept. No Permits Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
DPD Assisted Event; No Barricades
TED Required
Application Received Approved as
Recreation Presented

 

Safety

EDD

No Jurisdiction

 

DD

No Jurisdiction

 

 

 

 

 

SUBBED

Bus. License
All Necessary permits must be obtained

Mam? I: prior to event. If permits are not obtained,

departments can enforce closure of event.
. . No Parking Signs Required
Mumcrpal
Parking El
DDOT Low Impact on Buses

 

 



 

 

 

OFFICE

Signature: L652 gym}. A (ELM

Date: ?(halal 8! ZOIQ

 

 

Janice M. \Ninfrey
Cityderk

at)? of @etrm?t

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Cauen West
DeputyCity 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

To:

From:

Thursday, February 07, 2019

The Department or Commission Listed Below

Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

661

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
FIRE DEPARTMENT
POLICE DEPARTMENT BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER

Wayne State University, request to hold "Baroudeur" at the City of Detroit
(along various public rights of way) on 7am - 5pm, Set-up on 8/16
at 9 am til 8/17 at 7am, Tear on 7-19 

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center . Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
[313) 224 3260 0 Fax {313) 224?1466

stead

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning. effective communication and teamwork. The City
of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the Special Events Guidelines; please print them out for reference.
Petitioners are required to complete the information below so that the City of Detroit may gain a thorough
understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be completed and returned to the Special
Events and Film Handling Of?ce at least 60 days prior to the ?rst date of the event. If submitted later than
60 days prior, application is subject to denial. Please type or print clearly and attach additional sheets and
maps as needed.

St't?liml l? li't?lrlN'l? 

 

Event Name: The Baroudaur


Is this going to be an annual event? Yea No

 



 



Ornanlmtion Mailinn Address: 5700 Cass Ave. Suite 31 00. Detroit. Ml 43202

 

Business Phone: Business Website: wayne.edu

m; Matt Lockwood
Meringue; 313-577-9098 Cell Phone: 248-622-8060 mlookwood@wayne.edu

 

Event On-Slte Contact Penna:

Nat-?e- Matt Lockwood

Business Phone: 313?577?9098 Cell Phone: 248'622?3030 Email' mlockvVoodthayneedu

mm Element! (check that apply)

]Walkatlion ]CamivaliCircus lConcerUPer-fonnancc

lRunIMarathon Bike Race lReligious Ceremony

1PolitiealEvenI ]Fastival ]Fllming

?and: ]Sports/Recreatlon ]Rallnyemonstration

]ConventionlConference ]Fireworks Other: Post-?delunch 0" WSU campus

 

Projected Number ?Attendees: 8004000
Please provide a brief description of your event:

The Baroudeur is a noncompetitive cycling event that gives riders of varying abilities the opportunity

to eXplore Detroit and its surrounding areas. The event raises money for students in need.

 

 

 

 

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and time: (must he completed)?

 

 

Begin Set-up Date: Time: Complete Set-up Date: Time:

Annual 10, 2019 9mm. Mount 17. 2015 1 am.
Event Start Date: Time: Event End Date: Time:

August 17. 2019 7 am. August 2619 5 pm.

Begin Tearing Down Date: Auguat17.2019 Complete Tear Down Date: August 17. 2019

 

Event Times (If more than one day. give times for each day):

 

Section 3- 

 

Lnention of Event:

Facilities to be used (circle): Sidetvalk Park City
Facility

Please attach a copy ofPort-e-John. Sanitation. and Emergency Medical Agreements as well as a site plan which illustrates the
anticipated layout of your event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid

-Loeation of merchandising booths -Loeation of ?re lane

eLocation of food booths -Pmposed route for wnlkirun
-Location of garbage receptacles -Location of tents and canopies
-Locotion of beverage booths -Slcetch of street closure

-Locrttion of sound stages ofbleechers

-Location of hand washing sinks -Location ofpress area

-Loeation of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

Section 

 

Describe the entertainment for this year's event:

Alt entertainment to be presented on Wayne State's main campus.

 

Willa sound system be used? El Yes 2 No

'fyes- What type No sound system to be employed outside of Wayne State's campus.

 

Section 5? 

 

war there be advanced ticket sales? Yes El No
please tit-scribe: nugnunnan amdohla nl edu Poem: 565 bore me through June 15.3?5Junn 2o - Jury to. :35 July 20 - Aug, Ho
closes at 11:59 pm. on Aug. 14

Will therebeon?site ticket sales? El Ye: No
If yes. list orients}:

Will there be Vending or sales? El Ye! No
lt?yes, check all that apply:

]Food ?Merchandise ]NonvAlcoholt'c Beverages ]Alcoholic Beverages

 

 

 

 

indicate type of items to be sold:

Will there be food trucks? Yes El No
?you. please list how many:

Will there be a charge for parking? Yes l2 No
lfyes. please describe the amount:

How will you advise attendees ("rpm-king options? Attendee: wli one Wayne State parting Itmeium. free oi chemo.

St't?liutl a- 
Pelee Department
Name of Security Company: Poll? Department (DPD). WIVM Slate Untimely PM Department (WSUPD)

 

Contact Person: Anthony Holt. WSU PD

Address: 6050 Gm More? Phat-m: 313-517-2082

QiniSloMZim Detroit MI 43202

 

poloepetwnul
Shin? 

 

Are the private security personnel {check all that apply):

[x1 Licensed [x1 Armed Bonded

 

St?t?limt 7- 

How will your event impact the surrounding community (Le. pedestrian traf?c, sound carryover. safety)?
Beyond oi streets. The Barouoem will have little Impact on pedestrian Ironic. sound carryovat. etc. as the event atarii'iiniah takes place on

Wayne Slate?s main campus. Rider: mil to on the routes. with public safety canon. iron: 7 am. to roughly 2 pm.

Have local neighborhood gmupslbusinesses approved your event? We No

Indicate what steps you have or will take to notify them of your event: 5" noti?ed 0? 9'1. W3 US We 

correspond with affected naighborhmd groups and community organizaliona via phone and email prior to the event.

 

 

 

Section R- [-ZVlii 

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event Structure

Demibe speci?c power needs for entertainment andlor music. If generators will be used. described how many and how they will be fueled:

No power needs ior entertainment or mueie. No generators will be Used.

 

 

 

 

 

Name of vendor providing E?memtm?s: Contact Person: N0 generators needed.

 

 

Address: Phone:
CinSlata?Zip
How Many? SizelHeighl
Booth 
Tents (enclosed on 3 sides) 
Canopy (open on all sides} 4 (Belle Isle. USCIS) for rest stops snacks
SinginyScuffolding MIA
Bleachers NM

 

Seclinn ALI.- 

Emergency medical Hart Medical EMS
Contact person: Adam Goltileb. CEO. Hart Madlcal EMS

Adam?: 1836 w. For! Slreel

?Wt Ml 48216

 

Film: or ?Nice? 

Contact Person: Sara Thomas

 

Address: 2876 Tyler Road Phone: 73443277633

MI 48139 . .- H4

Nam:- ol? Erwin: entering ?manna-'3 WA: post-lumh rigging be ?rough Wayne Slate uampqs?r?ng

 

 

Person: a 
Mun: A


 

 

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day, date. and time ofrequected closing and reopening.
Neighborhwd Signatures must be submitted with application for approval. Barricade: are not available from the Clty of Detroit.

Will there be street closures? Yes IE No
Ifyes, please complete the street closure Information below and attach a map or sketch ofthe propoud area for closure.

STREET NAME: No street closures requested. Route maps attached.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: END TIM E:
REOP EN DATE: . . . TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO: 
CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: . TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO: 
CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN TIM E:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: . END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAM E:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: END TIME:

 

REOPEN DATE: TIME:

 

 

 

 



 

PLEASE ADD IMPORTANT INFORMATION BELOW AND ATTACH A COPY OF THE FOLLOWING:

l)
1)
3)
4)

5)

Please see attache?tg: of explanation.

CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
EMERGENCY MEDICAL AGREEMENT
SANITATION AGREEMENT
PORT-A-JOHN AGREEMENT

COMM UNITY COMMUNICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AFFADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief that I have read, understood and agreed to
abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed Special Event, and I
understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulations established
by the Mayor or the Mayor?s designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other
requirements of the City, County, State, and Federal Government and any other
applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to abide by
these rules, and further certify that I, on behalf of the Event agree to be ?nancially
responsible for any costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to
the City of Detroit.

 

 

Signature of Applicant Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by
the Special Events Management Team. you will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, andfor
restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AN INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indemnify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its
agencies, of?cers, elected officials, appointed officials and employees) harmless from
and against injury, loss, damage or liability (or any claims in respect of the
foregoing including claims for personal injury and death, damage to property, and
reasonable outside attorney?s fees) arising from activities associated with this permit,
except to the extent attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of
the City.

Applicant af?rms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and
Indemni?cation provision and agrees to the terms expressed therein.

(Please Print)

Event Name: The Baroudcur Evant
DateMUsust 2019

Event Organizer:
Wayne State Unlvarsity

Applicant Signature:
Date:

 

 

 

 

?ticocpl

January 14, 2019

Bethanie Fisher

Special Events Coordinator
City of Detroit - Media Services
2 Woodward Ave.. Ste. 333
Detroit. MI 48226

Dear Ms. Fisher:

I am writing on behalf of Wayne State University MSU) for approval for rider participants
to access public rites of way throughout the City of Detroit for the fifth annual Baroudeur.
Saturday. August 17. 2019. With this in mind. I have attached a completed ?City of Detroit
Special Events Application" on behalf of WSU.

The Baroudeur. an initiative of Wayne State University President M. Roy Wilson. is a non-
competitive activity that gives riders of all abilities a chance to explore the Detroit and
surrounding areas while cycling. More importantly. the event raises scholarship dollars to
help students in ?nancial need. The event also supports the League of Michigan Bicyclists
by participating in their $1 Per Rider Program. which helps promote cycling safety across
the state. The Baroudeur. which showcases some of our area's most noteworthy locations.
gives participants a ?rsthand-view of the striking transformation taking place in Detroit. in
turn. we hope that our riders encourage others to explore Detroit's iconic treasures.

The 2019 Baroudeur follows overwhelmingly successful events in 2015. 2016, 2017 and
2018. Nearly 1.000 riders toured metro Detroit along four courses during the inaugural
event in 2015. Thanks to help from roughly 20 organizations and sponsors and nearly 300
volunteers. the rides in 2016. 2017' and 2018 ended without major incident or injury. We
took forward to another successful and lmpactful event that nets positive results.

About the ride

Riders can choose from 20. 37. 62 and 100?miie distances to ride. The routes begin and
end on Wayne State's main campus and will cany riders through parts of Detroit and
various other communities. Riders along each course will enjoy routes through Midtown.
Downtown. Belle isle. the iconic Woodward Avenue. Palmer Park and other historic
neighborhoods. gaining appreciation for Detroit's remarkable past. exciting present and
promising future.

Event impact
Armed with lessons from the past four years. we expect the Baroudeur's trek through

Detroit will produce minimal disruption to traf?c flow. Our experience with past events and
our partnerships with law enforcement and regional governing bodies will aid us in reaching
our goal of an incident-free ride for the 800-1000 riders we anticipate. As in past years, no
street closures are required for the routes. which ivili be marked by temporary signage.

Rider responsibility

In making these plans. we emphasize to riders that they will share roads with other vehicles
and that they are subject to all traffic laws governing public roads. including stop signs.
stoplights and proper lane usage. For your reference. I have attached details of the four
routes.

Public safety
Though our riders will assume the risks associated with bicycling. we are placing rider

safety among our highest priorities. With this in mind. we will again work closely with the
Detroit Police Department (DPD) and the Wayne State University Police Department
(WSUPD) to develop and implement safety measures for each of the proposed routes. The
safety plan for the Baroudeur is passed on DPD's and WSUPD's previous experiences
with this and similar cycling events. Wayne State will enlist assistance from various other
law enforcement agencies along the planned routes.

First aid and emergency medical support

Hart Medical EMS will coordinate ?rst aid services. emergency medical response and
medical transport. Hart will re?ne and implement a plan that follows closely the successful
strategies used for the past four years. Our goal is to dellver a secure ?nish for every rider.

Hart Medical has extensive experience sUpporting large-scale and high-visibility Special
events in Southeast Michigan and is a leading provider of on-site medical care and
ambulance services for social. sporting. and cultural events of all sizes. With over three
decades of experience. Hart services venues and events including amphitheaters. concerts.
convention centers. corporate events. fairs. festivals. movie shoots. parks. performing arts
centers. sporting events. trade shows and other events. Hart is an authorized city of Detroit
911 provider.

Other

We hope that this letter. the supporting documentation and your previous experience with
our working group gives you and the Special Event Management Team the confidence you
need to grant the Baroudeur your enthusiastic endorsement. On behalf of Wayne State. I
want you to know that we look forward to collegial and productive efforts with each of our
working partners. including the City of Detroit.

In closing. we invite you. your colleagues and your neighbors to participate in the event.
which offers riders refreshments along the route. a limited edition Baroudeur t-shirt and
admission to a festive post-ride lunch on Wayne State's campus. For details about event
registration. please visit baroudeurmavneedu. if you need additional information. you can
reach me by email at mlockwood?wayneedu or directly by phone at 313-577-9098.

Sincerely.

Matt Lockwood
Ride Director
The'Baroudeur

way-rte Stat: Univerxity

BARGUDEUH
CM)

2019 RIDE SNAPSHOT

The Baroudeur is a fun. noncompetitive cycling event that gives riders of varying abilities an
opportunity to explore Detroit and its surrounding areas on two wheels while helping
economically disadvantaged students pursue higher education.

Event date
Saturday. August 17I 2019

Ridership;
Roughly 1.000 riders expected for 2019.

Cost of participation
The base registration fee is $65, through June 19: $75. June 20 July 19: $85. July 20 
August 14. Registration closes at 11:59 pm. on August 14.

Ride grougs
Four ride choices will be offered for 2019: 20 miles, 37 miles, 62 miles (Metric Century). 100

miles (Century).

 

 

 

 

Ride schedule
Ride groups will depart Wayne State's main campus along the following schedule:
Ride' start wifidaigrglipf 
?ll-u AMI-mile group. . .159 
8:30? _i 62-mlle group 195 
3:30 am. 37-mlle grottp 160 
10 am. 20?mile group 325

 

 

 

*ProJe?ction'based on EOE?riders

Routes

With the exception of the second halves of the 62-mile and the 100-mile routes. the routes
will remain largely unchanged from 2018, with the four routes passing through Midtown.
Downtown. Belle Isle. four of the ?ve Grosse Pointes and Palmer Park. Rather than routing
through the Downriver communities and Grosse lie as in the past. the updated 62- and 100-
mile routes now stretch west and includes Hines Drive to Livonia.

Rest stations

Four of?cial rest and refreshment stations will be established along the Baroudeur routes.
The rest stations will offer an of liquid refreshments and high-carbohydrate
snacks. All food and drink items will be prepackaged or self-service.



Continued on reverse.

Ride Snapshot
The Baroudeur ?Wayne State University Page 2 of 2

Rest stations also will be equipped with portable restrooms, 10? 10' canopy tents. tables.
chairs and sanitation supplies. Medical volunteers also will be at each rest station.

- Stop 1: Belle Isle. Riverbank Drive. 9.5 miles. Detroit

. Stop 2: USCIS Office, Jefferson at St. Jean. 30 miles. Detroit

. Stop 3: Twelfth Precinct. Detroit Police Department, 45 miles. Detroit

. Stop 4: Nankin Mills Recreation Area. Hines Drive. 66 and 82 miles. Westland

Traffic management

Working jointly. the Wayne State University Police Department (WSUPD) and Detroit Police
Department (DPD) will develop and implement traf?c control and safety measures that may
include roiling enclosures and other rider safety tactics at traf?c intersections and as
otherwise needed.

Emergency medical support

Three emergency medical vehicles will be stationed along the course at strategic locations
and designated for exclusive service to the Baroudeur. The dedicated vehicles will provide
direct medical support to event participants: where necessary. the emergency medical
service provider will coordinate additional emergency medical support as needed.

Rider suggort
Roving medical support will be assigned to the routes to help detect and remedy minor

Injuries and instances of rider distress.

A system of course signage. road markings and volunteer presence to give riders course
directions. enhance rider safety and improve course visibility. in addition. a network of event
volunteers and route marshals will be led by ?ve volunteerucaptains. Among various other
duties. the volunteers and captains will play a prominent role in ensuring rider safety. with
particular regard to injured or otherwise distressed riders. potentially hazard road and traf?c
conditions.

Affected communities

The Baroudeur is enjoyed along a unique urban course that originates on Wayne State's
main campus and to features some of the Detroit area?s most distinguished historic and
scenic attractions in several area communities.

- Detroit . Grosse Pointe Park . Highland Park
- Belle isle - Grosse Pointe . Livonia

. Dearborn . Grosse Pointe Farms . Plymouth

. Dearborn Heights Grosse Pointe Shores - Westland

Communications

Event communications will include: email. website. social media and event ?yers. All
communications will be produced and distributed by Wayne State University. Event
organizers will actively seek media placement opportunities with local television. radio and
newspaper outlets.

it?

tun-nu Stale Unlvmity

mus

2019 TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
AND RIDER SAFETY sumARY

 

A. Public safety
Overall Public Safety efforts are coordinated by the Wayne State University Police
Department (WSUPD). with signi?cant collaboration with the Detroit Police Department
(DPD) to ensure that The Baroudeur is free of signi?cant traf?c and other incidents.
WSUPD will mobilize a signi?cant portion of its available manpower to support the
event. DPD will activate manpower as needed. per the scale and scope of the event.
Other agencies. such as the Wayne County Sherriff?s Department and the Michigan
State Police will provide ancillary services as requested by WSUPD.

Police and Public Safety departments in host communities outside the City of Detroit will
dispatch manpower as deemed necessary by each Individual law enforcement agency.

8-. Traffic and safety
1. Assumption of risk: The Baroudeur will be conducted over public roads and other
facilities that are open to the public during the activity and upon which the hazards of
traveling are to be expected. By signed, written waiver mandatory for participation in
the event, riders agree to follow all applicable rules of the road for cyclists and
acknowledge the Inherent dangers and risks associated with bicycling. As such,
each rider assumes responsibility for such dangers and risks.

2. Rolling traffic enclosures: WSUPD and DPD will Implement intermittent traf?c
controls along the route by way of rolling enclosure for riders in the 20. 37, 62 and
100-mile rides. The enclosures will allow the ride to move along the course while
minimizing disruption to the traveling public. Where ride groups are diffused widely,
WSUPD and DPD will make on-road adjustments to traffic control methods.

3. Enclosure elements: Each of the four rolling enclosures will include at least two
escort vehicles, traveling at an appropriate distance in front of and behind the
pelotons. The lead escort vehicle shall stay In front of the lead rider in the race. while
the follow escort vehicle shall remain behind the main peloton. Riders who travel
ahead of the lead escort vehicle or drop behind the follow escort vehicle shall obey
all applicable rules of the road for cyclists and assume all risks of participation.
Rolling enclosures may integrate additional escort vehicles and stationed of?cers as
made necessary by rider volume and anticipated traffic conditions.



Traf?c and Safety Summary
The Baroudeur - Wayne State University Page 2 or 4

4. Additional elements: WSUPD will assign of?cers from its Bicycle Patrol Unit (BPU)
to the four ride distances. Generally. members of the BPU will be available to aid in
heightening awareness of Michigan bicycle laws, contribute to the overall safety and
security of event participants and to provide other police functions where appropriate
and necessary. Final placement and function of said of?cers will be at the discretion
of WSUPD. commensurate with ride conditions. in addition. WSUPD will assign to
the ride members of its Patrol Unitrwho may operate in support of rolling
enclosures as needed.

c. Emergency medical support

1. Provider: Hart Medical EMS will coordinate first aid services. emergency medical
response and medical transport along the route. Hart Medical has extensive
experience supporting large-scale and high-visibility special events in Southeast
Michigan and is a leading provider of on-site medical care and ambulance services
for social. Sporting. and cultural events of all sizes in our region. With over three
decades of experience. Hart services venues and events including amphitheaters.
concerts. convention centers. corporate events. fairs. festivals. movie shoots. parks.
parties. performing arts centers. sporting events. trade shows. and weddings. Hart
provides ambulance service on a regular basis. and is an authorized city of Detroit
911 provider.

2. Through a network of partnerships and alliances. the vendor of choice will provide
direct emergency medical support and coordinate additional emergency medical
services. As appropriate. the vendor also will manage and coordinate rider
transportation to medical care facilities. either directly or through its partnerships.
The vendor will dedicate three emergency vehicles for exclusive service to The
Baroudeur:

- Ambulance #1
- Stationed at Start/Finish line on WSU main campus
- Coverage area: south to downtown area; northern portion of route Palmer
Park; Southwest Detroit if needed.
a. Ambulance #2
- Stationed along Jefferson Ave. near Burns St.
- Coverage area: Belle Isle and northeast stretch of route into the Grosse
Pointes.
. Ambulance #3
- Stationed along W. Outer Drive. near River Rouge Park. (Livonia)
- Coverage area: from Southwest Detroit portion of route to Plymouth.

?3

Traf?c and Safety Summary
The Baroudeur - Wayne State University page 3 of 4

1. Nature of support: Roughly 20 medical volunteers will be recruited and mobilized
for the event. First?aid volunteers will be stationed at the StartlFinish lines. and at

each of the ?ve designated rest areas.

2. Roles and responsibilities: Medical volunteers will provide ?rst aid services for
such ailments as minor cuts. scrapes and bruises. Medical volunteers also will
monitor riders for signs of physical distress. evaluate participants' needs for
escalating care. and contact the UCP to mobilize available resources.

3. Quali?cations: First-aid volunteers shall be quali?ed as licensed practitioners in a
recognized medical ?eld or be actively receiving for such medial training. Where
volunteers are medical or nursing students. their activities shall be supervised by a

licensed practitioner.

E. Command and control (Communications)

1. Safety Command Center (SOC): Overall command and control will be under the
purview of WSUPD and stationed in WSUPD headquarters at 6050 Cass Ave.
Detroit. MI 48202 on WSU's main campus. internal. event-related
communications will take place via 800 radio frequency arranged through the
Michigan Public Safety Communication System WSUPD will coordinate
communications with other providers of public safety services. Including EMS
services and police departments and the on-campus Event Communications Post

(ECP).
a. The 800 will receive reports of incidents directly from riders. event of?cials or
event volunteers via the WSUPD emergency phone number. (313) 577-2222.
b. The 800 will review the facts of any reported incidents or situations to determine
if additional response or actions are appropriate.
0. The 800 will mobilize emergency response resources as appropriate. and
monitor the status of response activities.
d. The 800 may also receive and route requests for disabled bicycles and other
support and gear issues.
2. Event Communications Post: The ECP will serve as the communication hub for
various non-emergency event functions.
a. Volunteer management
b. Support and gear
Rest station usage and supplies
Rider progress
First-aid response
Various other special event operations

a

steep

Traf?c and Safety Summary
The Baroudeur? Wayne State University Page 4 of 4

3. Other ECP functions: In addition. the ECP will transmit information to the 500 and

emergency medical dispatch as appropriate. The ECP will operate using digital two-
way radio devices supported by the MOTOTRBO communications network. The
network will provide communications capabilities between any two points along the
four routes. Communications regarding varied functions will be performed on
channels assigned speci?cally to each function.

F. Sanitation
The Wayne State University Grounds and Custodial Services will collect refuse and

garbage.
G. Forte-Johns

Parkway Services. of Ypsilanti. will be contracted to provide porta-johns for rest stops as
appropriate. Restrooms in campus buildings near the event will be accessible.

2018 BAROUDEUR
20-MILE CUE SHEET

rt - Gutlon Mall
onto
onto Cass Avenue
Cass venue
Left onto Fort Street 
onto Boulevard
St .5
onto
mites
onto Grand Boulevard
on
on Sunset Drive
on
Continue on Ca
Lott Lakeside Shoal

Station Drive
on
an ?Avanue 2
onto at Avonuo

Left
on 2.1 mltos
onto Mount Etltolt Street
Precast! on MoUnt Etltotl .9
onto E. Warren Avenue
on Warren Avenue 1.8
on
onto
Cass

 

2018 Baroudour DISTANCE (miles)
CUE SHEET 0

tart Gullon Matt
onto
onto Coos Nannies mttos
onto
Right onto van:
onto Larnoo' St .5 mllos
onto
onto Etroot East 2.6 mltos
East . Boutovard
a on
on he Strand around the perimeter o! the island 5 rndas
Rest Station 1 (Riverbank .. Isle - Optional

or onto East Ava.
Lott onto (Connor yr]
Rest Station 2 1411 Ave. Detroit. MI 48214 
on Joan (Connor Crook Gateway}
onto at
onto at 1.8 miles
onto Elliott Street
Ett onto East Warren nuo
onto Stroot
onto East Avenue
. onto Street
onto
Street
onto 2nd Av'onuo
onto Chicago
onto a
onto Hamilton Av?enua. Name changes to Pontchartrain.
onto 1 Mile Road.
Station 3 {1-141 7 48203) . Police Dept. 1
onto Avenue
onto West Boston Boulevard
onto Avenue
onto
onto Stroot
o?n?t?o 1?4th Street tor 2.7 miles
onto
onto Anthony wayno rivo [Tnlro Ave tor 415 miles.
onto Malt (W. Forrv
onto

Precinct

 

2019 BAROUDEUR
CUE SHEET

on The Strand around the of island 6 miles

on East Avenue 6 changes to

en: U-TURN onto am; Shorc? Road

name changes back to Je?arsan 4.8



Avenue

Lett unto

ight onto Oakman Baulanrd

1
Lott unto West Forest Avenue
e? onto
Right onto West or Avenue
onto Furry Mal
It 

mmnruund in GTCISSU '"t'ltt' arms 4th
rnarund alter Newberry Pl. at St Paul

 

mm
.-1 Sin-flog]

an 

.9

an



I'll "m 

?low.?
on
MI: 

 

 

MARSHIUBAIINQE
ms Imm?uuwm Human
savanna manna: Inr mt cmu?a "Low. IHI: Don Hm A rAcIumAumqum momentum on
HOLDIH. ImnrAm; I HOME I: mum cammv mm mun lF I: mu. IUIJIGT TD um um cum-mum or THE
:mucrmumu mums-n rum: Au Luna-131mm. A 3111mm cums IWIHCI one: ?or cam-m mama m: mum IucH

.EVIDENDEIDE 

HI. I. 


A mum!



 

PRODUCER. AND 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


mm 
MARSH UER NO.
ONE TOWNE SQUARE
SUITE Tina ?Dun W5 CMMUI
SOUTHFIELD. Ml 18075 EMMY Ml BEG HER EDUCATION 5ELF4H5 a my; 
A
cowmv 

Inauun 
WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY cowmv
ATTN: WILLIAM KEMP 0
5700 CASS. SUITE 4822 comm
DETROIT. MI #8202 . -. 

comm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mu . -. J. 5. 
rmsmocuwr Tuitnucwrucnuum naLow Iuw?lumnum'r mmsunlomnumwmm Ann. 
naumm my mom. DI- Am anal nocuum mu mum To mum-mu um: mu.
on cm mama um- cummn ?Amman Hmt?ll mm to Au. Tun Tun-Is. acumen. Ann comm or
man cumucm mum-m Imr HAVII IIEH new." ll?l' mu cum.
:6 an Wm": 
MI:
A GENERAL LIABILITY smzou mums mmIo GENERAL AGGREGATE 1.0mm
Down mma?mm 
m. . 
LW- 
A AUTO ALleata meow meow SINGLE mu 3 Imam:
Am Auro

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deam?r??nuuos DPEHATIDH 1
RE: A3 RESPECTS THE use AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF DETROIT. SPECIAL EVENTS. MEDIA SERVICES AND WAYNE
STATE REGARDING THE m1: wsu BAROUDEUR BIKE EVENT To BE HELD ON SATURDAY. AUGUST 17. 2019.
THE cm 0F DEIRDIT SHALL BE NAMED A3 AN ADDITIONAL INSURED MJI. PER THE USEAGREEMENT.

 

 

ITEMS M15 MW IJE MJECJ TD DEDUCTIQQIS DB 

 

CITY OF DETROIT

MEDIA SERVICES. SPECIAL EVENTS
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE

DETROIT. Ml 48226

 

um: m: MOVE ouscmazo 1:0va commas cm ummen won: me

ESMTM DATE MREOF

LIMIH Ill-hm
HCIOW

 

 

 

Endorsement #5
Coverage Document No. GL712018

This endorsement modi?es coverage provided under the following:
M.U.S.I.C. GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE CONTRACT

COVERAGE FOR PERSON, ENTITY OR ORGANIZATION PARTY)
UNDER A COVERED CONTRACT

A. Coverage
SECTION - WHO is COVERED is amended to include any person, entity or organization
(hereinafter referred to as a Covered party) for Bodily anury, Personal injury. Advertising Injury
or Property damage covered under this General Liability Coverage Contract that occun during the
Coverage Period In? Only with respect to a Covered contract and only where you have agreed in
writing to include the Covered contract and Covered party for such coverage. Coverage by this
endorsement to the Covered party is limited to:

l. Liability arising out of a covered Occurrence that is caused. in whole or in part by you or on
your behalf by your agents or subcontractors; and

2. The extent of coverage and Limits of Liability as stipulated in the Covered contract. However.
such coverage and limits shall not increase our Limits of Liability as stated in Section -
LIMITS OF LIABILITY or alter any of the terms of coverage stated in this General Liability
Coverage Contract. our payment obligation shall not exceed the lesser of:

a. The Limits of Liability stated in SECTION -- LIMITS OF LIABILITY and as shOWn in
the Declarations; or

b. The limits(s) of coverage stipulated in the Covered contract applicable to general liability
coverage.

The Covered contract must be effective and executed prior to a covered Occurrence.

B. Exeluslons
The following exclusions apply to this endorsement and are in addition to those exclusions stated in

the General Liability Coverage Contract or as amended by endorsement:
1. This insurance does not apply to Bodily ury. Personal injury; Advertising injury or
Property damage arising out of. resulting from, caused by or contributed to by:

a. Sale negligence by the Covered party or anyone else acting on the Covered piirty?s behalf.
b. An Occurrence which takes place alter the cancellation date of the General Liability

Coverage Contract or cancellation date of this endorsement. or by termination or coding by
either party of the Covcred contract, whichever occurs first.

.3 7.

C.

Limits of Liability Application
Any payment obligation by us under this endorsement involving a Covered contract that is a molt

of a covered Occurrence taking place during the coverage period will be subject initially to the
Annual Aggregate Loss Retentions shown in the Declarations and also subjeet to the applicable
limits of liability set forth in paragraph Al (Coverage) of this endomemcnt. Nothing in this
endorsement creates any additional, supplemental or~aeparate limits of liability under this General
Liability Coverage Contract.

Conditions
The following conditions apply to this endorsement and are in addition to those conditions stated in

the General Liability Coverage Contract or as amended by endorsement.

I.

If we cancel the General Liability Coverage Contract (including this endorsement) or only cancel
this endorsement prior to the Gotten] Liability Coverage Conn-act?s expiration date and where
Speci?cally stipulated in the approved Covered contract, we agree to providethe Covered party

to the Covered contract advance written notice of such cancellation based on the number of days
speci?ed therein.

. The coverage provided by this endorsement is primary to. and on a non-contributory basis with,

any other available coverage to the Covered party.

. TheCovcred party moat give us prompt written notice ofan Occurrence involving the Covered

contract that may result in a claim or Suit. Any ensuing claim or Suit must include and be
brought against both the Covered party and us. We will have the right and duty to conduct and
control the legal defense for the Covered party named in the claim or Salt. Out- defense of and
any payment obligations for a claim or Suit will be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
General Liability Coverage Contract or as amended by endorsement.

. The Covered party must cooperate with us during the handling of the potential claim, claim or

Suit involving 1! Covered contract.

5. You must retain a written capy of the Covered contract.

 W-Q

(not. November 20?)
Dopartn rent at the Treaties?
Internal Ravanoa Eli-We

Wayne State Uniuersity
2 Business nemeJdiaregard-ad minty name. it from above

Request for Taxpayer
Identification Number and Certi?cation

no to 1m.lrs.goutinnW9 ior Inetruotl-cn: end the latest Interruption.
1 Home in anon-m on your income tort return). Name Is required on Ih?r: lino: do not teerre thin line blank

Give Form to the
requester. Do not
send to the IRS.

 

Either {tree Instructions) 1"

Limited company. Enter the tart classification corporation. S-S corporation. P- Partnership) 
Note: Cinch the approprLate boar In IIHI lune about: for the in: classi?cation oi the single-member owner. Do not check Exemptlon imm FATCA 
LLC I the LLC El tiestilied or tingle-member LLIS that Itr disregarded from the 0mm unless the owner ol the LLB It: ed A
mother Lit: iron to not draregardod from the owner tor LLB. tadmi tart purposes. Dir-romeo. a LLC: that a in my) 
I: dismounted from the outer should check the impropriate barrier the teat chusllicction oi tta mat-er.

Non . Profit! Public University 501(c)(3

3 Check appropriate box for federal tax classification oi the person Mroee name Is uttered on line 1. Check only one at the 4 Exemptions {codes apply only to

toilet-ring tot-en boxed. certain entities. not Individuals: can
on page 
CI proprietor or Corporation Corporation PM 
eingle-member Exempt payee code (It any) 1

 

Writ-tranche? mam mm be u, 

 

Edd-ton (rumour. site-ct. Md opt. or tulle no.) See instructions.
570i] Cass Avenue. surte arne RAB

Prirtortypo.
See Speci?c lmtrucbon? on page 3.

Nominated: heme and addreu (optional)

 

5 City. etele. and ZIP code
Detroit. MI 43202

 

 

7 List account ranch-aria) hare (optional:

 

 

Taxpayer Identi?cation Number (TIN)

 

Enter your TIN In the appropriate box. The TIN provided muei match the name given on line 1 to Wold
backup withholding. For individuals. this Is generally your social eecurily number However. [or 
resident alien. sole proprietor. or disregarded entity. can the instructions for Part Littler. For other. - -
entitlee. It Is .y?Our employer identification number (Elm. It you do not have a number. see How to get a

later.

Note: It the account In in more then one name. see the lnetructions for line 1. Alec see What Name and
Number To Give the Requester for guidelines on whose number to enter.

Social eectrti ty number

 

 

 

or
Employer number

 

 

 

38-5028429

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Part II Certi?cation
Under penalties of perjury. I certify that:

1. Tho number shown on this term in my correct taxpayer Identi?cation number (orl am waiting tor a number to be insured to me); and
2. I am not subtract to backup withholding became: I am exempt from backup withholding. or lb) I have not been notified by the Internal Revenue
Service (IF-IS) that I am nutrient to backup withholding as a result of a tuliure to report all interest or dividends. or the IRS hue notified me tIroi-I am

no longer subiect to backup withholding: and
3. lam or us. citizen or other U.S. pernon (dellned below): and

4. The FATCA code(3) entered on this term litany) Indicating that I am exempt from FATCA reporting to correct. .

Certi?cation lnetructiena. You must arose out item 2 above it you have been noti?ed by the the that you are currently eubieci lo backer: withholding becau
you have toiled to report all interest and dividends on your tax return. For real estate transactions, Item 2 does not apply. For mortgage Interest paid,
acquisition or ebondonment ol secured property. cancellation oi debt. conlribullons to on individual retirement arrangement (IFIA). and generally. peymonie
other than interest and dividends. you are not required to sign the certi?cation. but you must provide your correct TIH. See the intimation; for Part (I. later,

 

Sign Signature oI
percent D-

 

T/?rmu?rf [001%


General Instructions

Section reierences are to the lnlemel Revenue Code otherwise
noted.

Future developmente. For the latest Intermatton about developments
related to Form W-9 end its Instructions, such as legleletlon enacted
after they were published. go to ww.ire.govaormW9.

Purpose of Form

An Individual or entity (Form W-9 requester) who is required to file on
'rilormallbn return with the IRS ritual obtain your correct taxpayer
identi?cation number fl' IN) which may be your social eeoun?ty number
(SEN). Individual taxpayer Identi?cation number (ITIN). adoption
taxpayer Identi?cation number (ATIN). or emp!oyor number
to report on on Information return the nmount paid to you, or other
amount reportable on an lnlormstion return. Examples oi Information
returns Include. but are not limited to. the following.

- Form 1099-INT interest earned or paid]

onto a 1-09-2018

Form 1099-DIV (dividends. Including those from stocks or mutual
funds)

0 Form 1099-MISC (various types oi income. prizes. awards. or gross
proceeds)

- Form 1099-8 (stock or mutuau Iund sales and certain other
transactions by brokers)

0 Form 1099-6 (proceeds from real estate transactions)
a Form wee-K (merchant card and party network transactions)

- Fen'n tiltili [home mortgage Interest). 1098-E (student loan Internet).
1 [It] E-T (luillon)

0 Form 1099-0 (canceled debt)

- Form 1099-A (acquisition or abandonment of secured property)
Lieu Form We only 'rl you are a U.S. person (including a resident

alien}. to provide your correct TIN.

if you do not return Form to the requester with TIN. you might
be sublect to backup See What In backup 
later.

 



Form W-9 (Rev. 11-201 7)

Form W-9 (Rev. 114201?)

By signing the tilled-out form. you:

I. Certify that the TIN you are giving is correct (or you are waiting for a
number to be Issued).

2. Gently that you are not subject to backup withholding. or

3. Claim exemption from backup withholding it you are a U.S. exempt
payee. ll appl?cabte. you are also bodily-op that as a U3. person. your
etiocoble share of any partnership income from a U.S. trade or business
Is not subject to the withholding tax on ioreign partners' share at
effectively connected Income. and

that FATCA code(5) entered on this term (if any) Indicating
that you are exempt Iron-i the FATCA reporting. Is correct. See What is
reporting. later. for lunher inlen?nation.

Note: It you are a U.S. person and a recueeter gives you a form other
than Form W-Q to request your TIN. you must Lino-the roquester's form II
it is substantially similar to this Form 

De?nition at U.S. person. For federal tax purposes. you are
considered a U.S. person if you are:

An individual who is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien:

- A partnership. corporation. company. or association created or
organized In the United States or under the laws oi the United-Slates;

- [in estate [other than a foreign estate): or
. A domestic trust (as defined in Regulations section 

Special rules tor partnerships. Partnerships co-iduct a trade or
him ness in the United States are generally required to pays withholding
tax under section 1446 on any Iorolgn partners? share oi attentively
connected taxable income iron-i such business. Further. in certain cases
where a Form w-s has not been received. the rules under section tilde
require a partnership to presume that a partner lee foreign person. and
pay the section 1446 withholding tax. Thorelora. If you are a U.S. person
that is a partner In a partnership conducting a tmde or business in the
United States. provide Form int-9 to the partnership to establish your
U.S. status and avoid section 1446 withholding on your share of
partnership income.

In the cases below. the following person must give Form W-9 to the
partnership tor purposes of establishing lie U.S. status and avoiding
withholding on its allocohie were at not Income (mm the partnership
conducting a trade or business in the United States.

a In the case ot a disregarded entity with U.S. owner. the U.S. owner
of the disregarded entity and not the entity;

0 in the case of a grantor trust with a U.S. greater or other U.S. owner.
generally. tI-o U.S. grantor or?othor U.S. owner of the grantor tors! and
not the trust: and

- In the case of U.S. trust (other than a greater trust). the U.S. 
(other than a greater trust) and not the beneficiaries ol the trust.

Foroi?n person, It you are tarot-git person or the U.S. branch of a

torn go back that has elected to be treated as U.S. person. do riot-use
Form Instead. use the appropriate Form W-3 0r Form 3233 [see
Pub. 515. Withholding oi?iex on Nonresident aliens and Foreign
Entities).

Nonresident alien who becomes a resident alien. Generally, only a
nonresident alien Individual may use the tonne of a tax treaty to reduce
or el-minate U.S. tax on certain types of income. However. most tax
treaties contain a provision known as a ?saving clause." Exceptions
specified in the saving clause may permit an attempt on Irom tart to
continue Ior certain types oi income even after the payee has othenivise
become a U.S. resident alien for tax purposes.

It you are a U.S. resident alien who is relying on or exception 
conta'ned In the saving cl tune of a tear treaty to claim an exemption
Ircm U.S. imt on coda ri types oi income. you must attach a statement
to Form that spool oslhc following Iva lama.

1. The treaty-country. Generally. this must be the same treaty under
which you stained tuiemption from tax as a nonresident alien.

2. The treaty article addressing the income.

CI. The article number [or location) in the tax treaty that contains the
saving clause and Its exceptions.

4. The type and amount of income that qualities for the exemption
Irorn tax.

5. Suit chi facts to justify the exemption irom tax under the terms at
the treaty article.

Page2

Exam lo. Article ol the U.S. China indome tax treaty allows an
attempt it lrom tax for scholarship incomerece'ved by a Chinese
student tern orarily present in the United States. Under U.S. law. this
student will seems a resident alien for tax purposes it his or her stay in
the tin-ted States exceeds 5 calendar years. However. our 2 of
the that f'rolocot to the U.S.-China treaty [dated Apr?i so. 134) allows
the revisions of Article 20 to continue to spot etrori alter the Chinese
stu ent becomes a resident alien oi the Uruleci?Stalas. A Chinese
student who for this exception [under paragraph 2 ol the trial
protocol) and relying on a exception to claim an oxen]. on item tax
on his or her scholarship or lettowshi acorne would atlnc to Form
vii-9 a claimant that Includes the in urmal-o'l described above to
support that exemption.

it you are a nonresident short are 'Iore'gn entityy give the requester the
appropriate completed Form int-Bot l" arm 3233.

Backup Withholding

What in backup withholding? Persons making certain payments to you
must under certain conditions withh old and pay to the IRS 28% of such
payments. This is called ?backup withholding: Payments that maybe
subject to backup withholding include interest. lex~aitempt interest.
dividends. broker and barter exchange transactions. rents. royalties.
nonemptoyee pay. payments made In settlement of payment card and
third party network transactions. and certain payments from Trailing boat
operators. Real estate transactions are not subject to backup
withholding.

You will not be subject to backup withholding on payments you
receive If you give the requester your correct TIN. mat-re the proper
certi?cations. and report all your taxable Interest and dividends on your
tax return.

Payments you receive will be subject to backup withholding if:
1. You do not furnish your TIN to the requester.

2. You do not certify your TIN when required (see the Inetmctions for
Part II ior details).

a. The IRS tells the requester that you furnished an incorrect TIN.

It. The IRS tells you that you are subject to backup withholding
because you did not. report all your Interest and dividends on your tax
return (tor reportable Interest and dividends only). or

5. You do not certify to the requester that you are not subject to
backup withholding under 4 above {tor reportable Interest and dividend
accounts opened alter 1933 only).

Certain payees and payments are exempt from backup withholding.
See Exempt payee code. later. and the separate Instructions tor the
Requester of Form W-9 for more information.

Also see Special rules for partnerships. earlier.

What is FATGA Reporting?

The Foreign Account Tali Compliance not IFATCA) requires a
participating foreign ?nancial institution to report all United States
account holders that are specified United States persons. Certain
payee: are exempt trorrt FATCA reporting. See Exemption from 
reporting code. later. and the Instructions tor the Requester of Form
It'll-9 tor more Inton'netlon.

Updating Your Information

You must provide updated Intermittent to any person to whom you
claimed to be an attempt payee if you are no longer an attempt payee
and anticipate receiving reportable payments in the tutors Irorn this
person. For example. you may need to provide updated Inlerntation it
you are a corporation that elects to be an corporation. or it you no
longer are tax exempt. In addition. you must furnish a new Form it'll-ti ii
the name or TIN changes for the account: for example. it the grantor of a
grantor trust dies.

Penalties

Failure to Iurnteh TIN. It you fall to lurnleh your correct TIN to
requester. you are subject to a penalty of $50 lor each such failure
unless your iailure is due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect.
Civil penalty for false Information with respect to withholding. It you
make a false statement with no res sonabie basis that results in no
backup withhold tip. you are subject to a $500 penalty.

Form W-9 (Rev. 11-2017)

Criminal penalty t?or falsiiylna information. Willtulty 
certi?cations or affirmations may subject you to criminal penalties
including linen andr'or imprisonment.

Misuse of Title. It the requester discloses or uses Tle in violation of
todoral law. the requester may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.

Speci?c Instructions
Line 1

You enter one of the following on this line: do not leave this line
blank. The name should match the name on your tax return.

ll this Form W79 to lot a joint account (other than on account
maintained by a foreign financial institution list first. and then
circle. the name of the person or entity whose non-thin you entered in
Part I of Form W-9. it you are providing Form to on FF: to document
onnt account. each holder of the account that to U.S. person must
provide it Form 

a. Individual. Generally. enter the name shown on your tax return. If
you have changed your last name without iniorrning the Social Security
Administration oi the name change. enter your foot name. molest
name as shown on your social security card. and your new last name.

Note: applicant; Enter your Individual name as it was entered on
your Form trill-7 application. line to. This should-also be the some as the
name-you entered on the Form 104011 yOulilcd with your
application.

b. Sole proprietor or single-member LLC. Enter your individual
name as shown on your on lino 1. You may enter
your business. trade. or "doing business as" (DEA) name on line 2.

ct. Partnership, LLC that to not a aingteomembor LLC. 
corporation. ors corporation. Enter the entity?s name or. shown on the
lentity's tax return on line ?i and any Duchess. trade. or DEA name on
inc 2.

d. outer entities. Enter your name as shown on required U.S. federal
tar. documents on ion 1. This name should match the name shown on the
charter or other legal document creating the entity. ?rou may enter any
busloees. trade. or DEA name on line 2.

e. Dieragerdcd entity. For U.S. federal tax purposes. an entity that is
disregarded its an entity separate irorn its owner is treated as 
?disregarded Soo Regulations section Enter
the owner's name on line 1. The name of the entity enter ed on final
should never be a dlcrogerdod entity. The name on line 1 should be the
name shot-m on the income tax return 0-: which the income should be
reported. For example, it a foreign LLC that is treated as a disregarded
entity for U.S. federal tux purposeo has a single oumer that is a U.S.
person. the U.S. owner?s name is recurred to be provided on fine 1. it
the direct owner of the entity is also a disregarded entity. enter the teat
owner that is not disregarded for federal tax purposes. Enter the
disregarded entity's name on i no 2. 'Bue'rnoos namordisrogarded entity
neme.? if the owocr of the disregarded entry is .1 foreign person. the
corner must complete an appropriate Form W-B Instead of Form w-e.
This is the c'asa even it the foreign person has no.5. Tilt-i.

Line 2

It yen have a business name. trade name. DEA name, or disregarded
entity name. you may enter it on line 2.

Line 3

Check the appropriate box on line 3 for the U.S. federal tax
classification of the person whose name is entered on line 1. Check only
one box on line 3.

Page 3

 

 

 

- Sole proprietorship. or

- Single-member limited liability
company (LLC) owned by an
individual and disregarded for U.S.
federal tax purposee

It; t)he entitylpereon on line 1 is THEN check the box for . . .

. . .

- Corporation Corporation

- lndiyidital Individual/sole proprietor or single-

member LLC

 

- LLC treated as a partnership for
U.S. federal tax purposes.

0 LLC that has filed Form 8832 or

Limited liability company and enter
the appropriate lair. classification.
(P: Partnership: Cl: corporation:

2553 to be taxed as a corporation, or S: corporation)
or

LLC that is disregarded as an
entity separate from its owner but
the owner is another LLC that is
not disregarded ior U.S. federal fair

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes.
j. Partnership Partnership
- Trustresiete Trustfestate
Line 4, Exemptions

it you are exempt from backup withholding andror reporting.
enter in the appropriate space on line it any code(3) that may apply to
yen.

Exempt payee code.

- Generally. individuals (Including sole proprietors) are not exempt from
backup withholding.

- Except as provided below. cerporetione are exempt from backup
withholding for certain payments. including into-reel and dividends.

- Corporations are not exempt from bacItUp withholding tor payments
made In settlement of payment card or third party network transactions.

- Corporations are not exempt from backup withltolr?ng with respect to
attorneys' fees or green proceeds paid to attorneys. and corporations
that provide medical or health care senticoe are not exempt with mopect
to payments reportable on Form toils-MISC.

The following codes payees that are exempt from backup
withholding. Enter the appropriate code in the space in line 4.

t?nn organization exempt from fat: under section 5min}. any tPli?s or
a custodial account under section martian It the account satis?es the
requirements oi section 401mm]

2-The United States or any of its agencies or 

a?A state. the District of Columbia. 3 U.S. commonwealth or
possession. or any of their political subdivblons or inafmmentelitiee

4 foreign government or any at its political subdivisions. agencies.
or 

5 corporation

dealer in securities or commodities required to register it the
United States. the District of Columbia. or U.S. commonwealth or
possession

7-A futures omission merchant registered with the Commodity
Futures Trading Gomrnlaslon

real estate investment trust

Q?nn entity registered at all times during the tax year under the
investment Company Act of 1940

10-A common trust fund operated by a bank under section 584(3)
11?Atinancial institution

12 middlemen known in the investment community as a nominee or
cualodian

:33: trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section

Form W-9 (Ficv. 11-2017)

The ioilowlng chart shouts types of payments that may be exempt
iront backup withholding. The chart applies to the exempt payeos listed
above. 1 through 13.

IF the payment I: tor . . . THEN the payment to exempt
for . . .

interest and dividend payments fill exempt pay'ees except
at 7

 

Exempt payees 1 through 4 and 6
through 11 and all corporations.
corporations must not enter an
exempt payee code because they
are exempt only tor sales of
securities acquired
prior to 2012.

Exempt payees 1 throUgh 4

Broker transactions

Barter exchange transactions and
patronage dividends

Payments over 5500 required to be Generally. exempt payees
reported and direct sales (War 1 through 5?
55.000'

Payments made in settlement oi Exempt payees 1 throUQh 4
Payment card or third party network

transactions

 

See Form IOBQ-MISC. Miscellaneous Income. and its instructions.

2 uwou .lh totiotyin a mants made to a corporation and
rgportagie or? Form mightier: are not exempt tram bitcttup
w'thhoiding medical and hoa?th caro payments. attomayr.? toes. gross
proceeds paid to an attomay reportable under section 5041541]. and
peymerits services paid by a tederai executive agency.

Excitiptlon tram FATCA reporting code. The lotion-n9 codes identity

payoas that are exempt irom reporting an FATGA. These codes

apply to portions submitting his term for accounts ma ntained outside
oi the United States by certain fora gn at institutions. iharoicro. it
you are only submitting this form tor on account you hold to the United

States, you may leave-this ?eld blank. Consult with the person

requesting this form It you are uncertain if the ?nancial Institution in

suulocl to those requirements. A may indicate that a code is
not required by prov-ding you with a Form Watt with ?Not Applicabic' [or
any similar indication] written or printed on the line for a FATCA
exemption code.

tit?An organization exempt irom tax under section Stilts} or any
Individual retirement plan as dallnud In section italilti'}

B?Tha United States or any of its agencies or Instrurnentalities

state. the District of Columbia. at us. commonwealth or
passession. or any of their poltical subdivisions or 

corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on one Or
more established securities markets. as doscribarl in Regulations
section 

corporation that is a member or ice same-?oxpandad af?liated
groap as a corporation described In Regulations section 1.1472- Iridium)

dealer in securities. commodities. or derivative financial
instruments {including notional principal contracts. futures. lanyards.
and options} that is registered as such under the laws oi the United
States or any state

real estate investment trust

H-A regulated investment company as dotinod in section 351 or an
entity registered at all til'l?tDS during the tax year under the Incestment
Company Act of 1940

common trust fund as de?ned in section 584(5)

bank as delined In section 581

broker

trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section


Page 4

MHA tax exempt trust under a section 403(k)} plan or section 457(9)
plan
Note: You may wish to consult with the financial institution requesting
this form to determine whether the FATCA coda andIer exempt payee
code should be comoieted.

Line 5

Enter your address (number. street. and apartment or suite number).
This is where the requester of this Form w-e will mail your information
returns. If this address differs from the one the requester already has on
tile. write NEW at the top. If a new address is provided. there is still a
chance the old address will be used until the payor changes your
address in their records.

Line 6

Enter your city. state. and ZIP code.

Part I. Taxpayer Identification Number (T 

Enter your TIN In the appropriate box. It you are a resident alien and
you do not have and are not eligible to get an SSN. your TIN is your 
individual taxpayer Identi?cation number (ITIN). Enter it In the nodal
security number box. It you do not have an ITIN. see How to get a TIN
below.

If you are a sole proprietor and you have an EIN. you may enter either
your SSN or EIN.

If you are a single-member LLC that is disregarded as an entity
separate from its owner. enter the owner's SSN (or EIN. II the owner has
one). Do not enter the disregarded entity's EIN. If the LLC is classi?ed as
a corporation or partnership. enter the entity's EIN.

Note: See What Name and Number To Give the Requester. later. for
further clari?cation oi name and TIN combinations.

How to get a TIN. If you do not have a TIN. apply tor one immediately.
To apply for an SSN. gal Form 83-5. Application for a Social Security
Card. irom your local SSA cities or get this form oniine at
You may also get this form by calling 1400-7724213.
Use Form W-7. Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification
Number. to apply for an ITIN. or Form 85-4. Application for Employer
Identi?cation Number, to appty tor an EIN. You can apply for an EIN
online by accessing the IRS website at wwars.gov/Businesses and
clicking on Employer Identi?cation Number (EINJ under Starting a
Business. Go to to View. download. or print Form
W-7 and/or Form Or. you can go to to
place an order and have Form W-7 and/or SS-4 mailed to you Within 10
business days.

It you are asked to campiste Form w-s but do not have a TIN. apply
for TIN and write "Applied For" In the space far the TIN. sign and date
the form. and give it to the requester. For Interest and dividend
payments. and carton payments made with respect to readily trndaiila
instruments. generally you will have 60 days to got a Tlhi and give it to
requester before you are so bioct to backup withholding on
payments. The 50-day rule does not apply to ulnar types at payments.
You be to backup wthholding on al? such payments until
you provide your Will to the requester.

Note: Entering ?Applied For? means that you have already applied for a
TIN or that you intend to apply for one soon.

Caution: A disregarded U.S. entity that has a loreign owner must use
the appropriate Form w-e.

Part II. Certi?cation

To establish to the Withholding agent that you are a US. person. or
resident alien. sign Form W-9. You may be requested to sign by the
withholding agent even If item 1. 4. or 5 below indicates othanivise.

For a joint accomt, only the person whose TIN is shown In Part i
should sign {when required). In the case of a disregarded entity. the
person Identified on line 1 must sign. Exempt payeas. sea Exempt payee
Code. earlier.

Signature requirements. Complete the certification as Indicated in
Items '1 through 5 below.

Form W-9 [Re-v. 11-2017)

1. Internet. dividend. and barter exchange opened
bolero 11le and broker accounts coneldered active during 1988.
You must give your correct TIN. but you do not have to sign the

certi?cation.

2.1ntereet. dividend. broker. and barter exchange acoounte
opened alter teas and broker account: considered Inactive during
1553. You must sign lltu certi?cation or backup tviihhoidrng will apply. it
you are cablect to be ckup w-thhold ng and you are merely prov ding
your correct TIN to the requester. you meet creep out item 2 in the

codification before signing the term.

3. Real estate transactions. You muet sign the codi?cation. You may

cross out Item 2 oi the certification.

Other poymonte. You meet give your correct TIN. but you do not
have to sign the codi?cation unless you have been noti?ed that you
have previously given on Incorrect TIN. ?Other paymentc' include
payments made in the course at the requeetcr's trade or bucinece for
tools, royalties. good: (other than bills for merchandise). mad:cel end
health care services [including payments to corporations]. payrnente to
a nenemployee for rte-etc es. payments made In settlement ol payment
card and third party network transactions. payments to certain itching
boat crew members and ?shermen. and gross proceeds paid to
attorneys [Including payments to core nations].

5. Mortgage interest paid by you. acquisition or abandonment of
secured property. cancellation or debt. quali?ed tuition program
payments (under section 529}. ABLE accounts lender section 
that. Goverdeit ace, Archer hide or tree or
diatrlbutlona. and pension distributions. You must give your correct
TIN. but you do not have to sign the codi?cation.

What Name and Number To Give the Requester

For this type of coconut:
1. l?ldlvidual
2. Tvro or more Ootnt
account) other than an eccetmt
maintained by an FFI

3. Two or more us. per-Iona
Goinl account maintained by an FFI)

rt. Cuetodiel account at a minor
(Unitonn Gift to Minors Act)

5. e. The usual revocable savings trust
foranlor in also that?!
b. So-ccled trust accomt that to not
a Iegnl or valid trust under state law

it. Sole proprieteuhlp or diereguded
entity owned by an individual
7. Gunter trust under Optional
Form 1099 Filing Method i (see
Regulation: section Len-4mm)
li'ill
For this type'ot? account:
Airman-gamed entity not owned by In
hob-Ideal
e. A valid trust. estate. or pension trust

to. Corporation or us electing
corporate status on Form 8832 or
Form 2558

11. Association. club. religious.
charitable. educational. or other tax-
errempt organization

12. Partnership or mold-member LLC
13. A broker or regiatctod nominee

 

Give name and SSH of:
malnutrition?

The actual owner of the account or. it
combhed tmde. the tint Individual on

the account?
Each holder of the account

The rnlnerI

The 
The actual owner'
The m'

The memo."

Give name and EIN cl:
THO OW

Legal entity?
The corporation

The atomization

The partnamhlp
The broker or nominee

Page 5

 

Give name and EIN of:
The public entity

For this type of account:
14. Account Willi the oi
Agricuture In the name ol 3 pubic
entity [such an a crate or local
government. school district. or
prison) that receives agricultural
program payment:

15. Gunter truu ends the Form
1041 Fine Method or the Optional
Fon'n 1095 Filing Method 2 (we
Facilitation: section LEN-immaterial

 

The trust

 

List and circle the name of the person whose number you furnish.
it only one person on a has no SSH. that percon'enumhor
muat be furnished.

Circle the minor's name and furnish the minor's SSN.

5* You must show your individuel name and you may also enter your
busineea or DEA name on the "Business entity'I
name Fne. You may use either your SSN or Eihl {it you have one]. out the
IRS encourages you to use your SSN.

List first and circle the name of the trust. estate. or pension truet. (Do
not lumleh the TIN oi the perennial representative or truetce unless the
legal entity itaell to not designated to the account title.) Also see Special
rules earlier.

'Note: The grentor also must provide a Form W-3 to twice of trust.

Note: II no name I: circled when more than one name to listed. the
number will be considered to he that of the first name listed.

Secure Your Tax Records From identity Theft

identity theft occurs when someone use: your personal inlomtaticn
auch be your name. SEN. or other identifying Information. without yoUr
permission. to commit fraud or other crlmoe. An identity thief may use
your SSH to pet a tub or may tile :1 tax return using your to receive
a refund.

To reduce your risk:
. Protect your SSN.
0 Ensure your employer to protecting your SSN, and
0 Be careful when choosing a tax preparer.

It your tax recorda ere allected by identity than and you receive a
notice from the lFtS. raepond right away to the name and phone number
printed on the IRS notice or letter.

ll year tax records are not currently allacted by identity theft but you
think you are at risk due to a lost or stolen puree or wallet. questionable
credit card act?rity or credit report. contact the IRS identity Thelt 
at FEED-9084490 or submit Form 14039.

For more information, see Pub. 5027. identity Theft lnlorrnetlon tor
Taxpayers.

lilirttime of identity thett who are experiencing economic hem-r or a
systemic problem. or are cooking help in resolving lei-r problems that
have not been received through normal channels. may be eligible for
Taxpayer Advocate Sewlce You can reach TAS by
calling the TASS tolI~freo coca Intake line at Hit in? nerve or TTWT DD
Lamaze-4059.

Protect youraelt from auspicious emetic or phlehing Ichemee.
Is the creation end use of email and Website!) designed to
mimic legitimate business email: and websitee. The meat common act
is sending an email to uaor faicaiy claiming to be en eelebliehad
legitimate enterprise in an attempt to acorn the beer into surrendering
privdle intonnaticn that will be used for identity theft.

Form W-9 (Rev. 11-201?)

The IRS does not contacts with taxpayers uln emails. Also. the
IRS does not request persona! detnllod tniot'mallotn through email or ask
taxpayers for the PIN numbers. passwords. or is miter secret access
.ntorrnatiort for their credit card, bat-tit. or other tinanclal accounts.

If you IGCENE on meal cited err-rail claiming to be from the 
forward this message to You may also report mlauae
of the name, logo. or other property to the treasury Inspector
General tor Tm: Admin'stratiort at Leno-355414341. You can
forward suspicious nmaits to the Federal Trade Commission at
report them at You can

contact the FTC nl or a? 

If you have been the y'otrm oi identity theft. trap deentityThol?tgov
and Pub. 502?.

Visit to learn mare about identity theft and
how to reduce your risk.

Page 6

Privacy Act Notice

Section 6109 of the internal Ftevanue Code requuos you to provide yoLIr
correct TIN Io pontoon {incluo'ng federal agencies] who are required to
Illa tntormnt on returns with the IFIS to report Interest. dividends. or
certain other income paid to you. mortgage Interest you paid: the

ocqu sitton or abandonment of secured property: the cancellation of
debt. or cont?tnol'one you made to an IRA. Archer MBA, or HSr?t. The
person collecting this form uses the information on the term to file
information returns the IRS, reporting the above intom'tation.
Routine uses of this Information include giving it to the Department at
Justreo for civil and criminal I light on and to cities. status. the Districtof
Columbla. and U5. and posaeastone for use in
administering their Iowa. The {the may be disclosed to other
COUnttl?s under a treaty. to fedora" and state agencies to enforce civil
and criminal laws. or to federal taw enforcement and intelligence
agenda: to combat terrorism. You must provide your TIN whether or
not you are required to i in a tort return. Undor ?ocllon 3.4106. Dayan
must generally withhold a percentage of taxable Interest. dividend. and
certain other payments to payee who does not give a TIN to the payer.
Carton penalties may also apply tar prot- ding false or fraudulent
Information.

201 9-02-07 -
661
661 Petition of Wayne State University,
request to hold "Baroudew" at the
City of Detroit (along various public
rights of way5pm, Set-up on 8/16 at 9 am til 8/17 at
7am, Tear on 8-17-19

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTIS)

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
FIRE DEPARTMENT

POLICE DEPARTMENT BUILDINGS SAFETY
ENGINEERING

BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER

