TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

5-214?

 

. . I 

.,111 - . 

DETROIT HISTORIC IETY

.l.J

The Detroit Historical Sci-511.113.: :E-unded i: '92: "1.35:3: ere 33355:". L?s-2 Lisa-.- :5
our region. I 11:928- the Detroit Hi storica: Miser: 3.11.9 eszbiisie: 5: :tje.? :e
preserx ation of the region histor} time-1.. ugh and and

The Detroit Historical Societ} recentl} made- the sion to 1 were ::re eigsg-fig 
?ith the community v. 1th1n Detroit. In 21.115. Detrei: 1.135 excise: a 

.

engage communit} partners. new sta? ?as augr"- .11e an: St: scars?e 
Detroit 6. Project Director. His goal 13 to tge new. re I -
cit} wide while implementing nets and tennanent programs. 6 :s 1:1; 1175
dix ersit} as the Citx continues to grou more dii erse: and



The Detroit Historical Societ} welcomed Elana Rugh 353-16715? Chief Exec 5.52 :T?t?i;er .- j.
of 2018. She has promulgated a commitment to duet-511? equir in: cs.
throughout the organization to re?ect the citizens of Detroit These net-'1 gsais :he 7.51::

xx ere initiated as a result of the earl} 11. ork on Detroit 6 that catapulted 3 for re
society; and

The Detroit Historical Societ} has receixed numerous pre stig'cus . new
commitment to inclusion. In 20l7. the} receixed the eni. risuias Prize? Er: has-1;.
Museums Association and the Historical Societ's of Michigan State His: Auzi 332': 
1967: Origins Impacts and Legacies. During 2018 .1 e. were awarded fine fire -1:
the \ational Medal Leadership in History Anard, Librar} ofMic??; g: $11. 
and the Midwest Histor} Association 5 2018 Hamlin Garland 1ze E: 13:52: I?ifstr?-z and

WHEREAS The Detroit Historical Societv throughout the }ears haxe pr ees ed 25:31 er:

Their commitment to the communit} is a pillar of inclusion and re a: as? 
diversity and accessibilit}. throughout the Cit} of Detroit: THEREFORE. BE IT

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit Cih Council The
Detroit Historical Society for putting the communitx tirst Thank 10:3: 
dit ersity, equity, accessibilitx, and inclusion throughout the organ: za..o: 2.11:: er-Qii?rf?s. his} Gin:
continue to bless your endeax ors in the future

 
  



coumst 

 

 

 

 

 

May 14, 2019

 

 

 

REAS

REAS



1WHEREAS



RESOLVED

 

DETROIT C11 COUNCIL 

. 2 1 
mama/11:11 .xcs

      

--.II .


Ins.


 

Terri ?Diviniti? Smi 2h

Singer and Song-writer 5-32

Terri "D111n111 Smith a Grarnm} nominated singer and song?11riter has establishes. 29351::
pioneer in the techno and house music indusn} in the Cit} ot Detroit and int 
an integral part of the city?s musical rebirth that occurred during the 198115 Her .-s

uplifted people 111th its incorporation of tasteful 1.1 0rd -play and its distinctii. so 11.1213; and



Terri ?Diviniti? Smith has many profound collaborations 1.1 1th fellmx artists. She collaborated
with notable producers such as; Louie Vega. Charles ebster, Josh 1\.lilan. 5311:1131 Okino at"
And? Compton Se1 eral world renowned DJs have selected her music tor their corr rnniiatz-on
1.

is also a songwriter for artists such as. Les Nubians. Pirahnahead- and mos: notanl 
L01. for Louie Vega 5 album, 11 l'llCh gained her a Grammy nomination: and

Terri D11. 1n1t1 Smith has had a substantial amount of p011. er?rl performances 11.: 1 i7? 1: 
Detroit and man}. other major cities. both nationally and internationalh. OxerJ-i ire 
performed during festiVals 1n Chicago, New ork Cit} and Miami. She has also i: it.
Cit1.' of Calabria 1n Italy, Lucerne in Switzerland. and Tolqo the capital or Jana: 11's: 7.37:-
few. With her notes orthx' accomplishments she has par ed the 11 a_1' foro there and


I'll



Terri ?Diviniti? Smith has a passion for improving the lives of children 
twenty -two vears she has been an educator in the Detroit Public School Common 171 Dist}: 53:"
obtained a Bachelor of Science and Master 5 degree 1n Elementan Education 71?: 
Uni1. ersity; and

Terri D11. 1n1t1 Smith established a nonprofit organization called ?The Little Bit 
Incorporated.? This organization has delivered more than 300 bags to 1.1 orne 1: remem?s
or in crisis that do not haVe access to sanitary products through the 
Citizens of Detroit are proud to call Diviniti one of our own: THEREFORE. BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council 7137.523; Terri
?Diviniti? Smith for her contributions as an artist to the techno musical scare 5.7. k173i 2:71:
beyond. May God continue to bless your musical and philanthropic endea1 ors.

 

 

 

 

 

May 14.2019

 



a.

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

  

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

Norm Talley 

Norm Talley was born in the late 1960?s and was raised in the City of Detroit. He
received his formal education from Cerveny Middle School and Cooley High School;

and

Norm Talley was greatly in?uenced by his mentor Ken Collier. His music has roots in
jazz, soul, funk and disco. His DJ style is full of soul penetrating percussions and soulful
vocal melodies. He started DJing in the 19805 at high school parties, backyard get
downs, and a variety of halls. As his popularity grew he began organizing his own
parties; and

Norm Talley spun at legendary dance clubs in Detroit such as The Loft, Heaven, Club
246, Club Taboo and Onstage in Motown just to name a few. Over the span of ?fteen
years he in?uenced the airwaves in Detroit and Windsor as a DJ with CJAM 91.5 FM,
WDTR 90.9 FM, WGPR 107.5 FM and WHPR 88.7 FM. The debut of his ?rst album
Norm-A?Lize was in 2017. This was a compilation of soul, disco and jazz; and

Norm Talley is known as the Silent Warrior in the DJ community. His energetic style
has been shared with venues from around the world. He even hosted sets at clubs in
France, Italy, Spain, Montreal, Toronto, Paris and Switzerland. He has played at popular
dance spots such as the Panorama Bar in Berlin, Germany, Fabric in London, and Output
in New York; and

Norm Talley is the creator of his own label called Upstairs Asylum. He also has new
releases on Suddwax, Landed, FXHE, Bass Culture, Mixmode, and Detroit Wax. His
in?uence in music can be seen throughout the Detroit dance scenery and abroad;
THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Office of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council recognizes
Norm Talley for his contributions as a DJ and in?uencer in modern music. May God
continue to bless your future endeavors.

 

 

 

   

 

MEMBER
May 14, 2019

DATE

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

 



DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

ADRIEL THORNTON

Adriel Thornton has established himself as a global leadeifi' in creative arts and event
production. Born and raised in Northwest Detroit he is an entrepreneur who has earned a
Bachelor?s Degree in Public Relations from Wayne State University in Detroit,
Michigan; and

Adriel Thornton started his career as a promoter by distributing ?yers for parties and
night clubs during the early 19905. Since then he has produced hundreds of events,
global festivals, award winning night clubs, screenings and more; and

Adriel Thornton has spoken on panels for South by Southwest, Cinetopia, Model and
was recently selected to be the representative of Detroit?s entrepreneurial and creative
class for Virgin Airlines with co-hosts Bridgette Russo (Shinola), Dan Gilbert (Quicken
Loans) and Richard Branson (Virgin). He is also instrumental with the production of
popular events in Detroit such as the Detroit Electronic Music Festival, Dally in the
Alley, Eastern Market After Dark, Dine Drink Detroit and the Knight Arts Challenge
Award Ceremony. In 2000 his club event, FAMILY, was voted ?Best Club Night in
America?; and

Adriel Thornton is an entrepreneur that founded ?FreshCorp? in 2004 in order to promote
events for himself. By 2007 he established ?Fresh Media Group?, an event production
company specializing in electronic, hip hop and indie music events. He also created
Nations United, Divisions Extinct (NUDE Magazine) and his own clothing line and store
called Space 19; and

Adriel Thornton is a global leader in creative arts and event production. He is a true
Detroit ambassador of cultural goodwill. His productions in Detroit are well attended as
they give participants a taste of cultural diversity while having fun; THEREFORE, BE
IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council recognizes
Adriel Thornton for his contributions as a promoter in Detroit. May God continue to
bless your future endeavors.

 

jaw?l- 
., wearer a}

CINCILPRESID Two 

COUNCIL MEM 



 

 

 

-.

tau 

.ka ?gram 3 3?

 

 

E'c?vm MEMBER 
May 14, 2019

 

DATE

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

NCIL PRESII NT 

I 




U-ILM- - . _4 
.12.: H- a ,1 I Jr.-
I4 .



ITEM: 

   

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

ANGELA VINCENT

Lynda Carter?

Angela Vincent was born into a military family in Wiesbaden, West Germany to John and
aunice Wright. Her family moved to Detroit, Michigan when she was nine years of age. Here
she attended the Detroit Public School System graduating from Henry Ford High School; and

Angela Vincent pursued her education at Western Michigan University. There she earned an
undergraduate Degree in Secondary Education and a Master?s in Education with a concentration
in Instructional Technology. While in college she began DJ ing and became known to many as DJ
Lynda Carter. While in college she gained two years of on-air radio experience and spent one
year with a local television station. She also pledged Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated
and held positions of Parliamentarian, Communications Chair and Leader of Minerva Circle; and

Angela Vincent became a well-known spinster opening up for acts such as John Legend, Alicia
Keys, Marsha Ambrosis, and Erykah Badu to name a few. Her list of corporate clients includes
Toyota, Dub Magazine, Lord and Taylor, Girl Scouts of Southeastern Michigan and more; and

Angela Vincent has been DJ ing and coordinating events for the past ten years. She has shared her
talent with events such as the National Football League Style Lounge, International Auto Show,
opening DJ act for Dwele, the Alicia Keys Concert After Party, and Baileys Get Together
featuring John Legend Corrine Bailey Rae NYE Cleveland Toast opening up for Biz Markie,
and Ephiphany After Party featuring Chrisette Michele; and

Angela Vincent is also an entrepreneur. She is a licensed broker, investor and owner of two
barlounges; Mix Bricktown and Lockeroom both in Detroit. She completed the Goldman Sachs
10,000 Small Business Program and currently on track to complete the Leadership Detroit Class
THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council recognizes Angela
Vincent for her contribution as an artist and entrepreneur in the City of Detroit. We are proud to
call her Detroit?s Wonder Woman of Vinyl. May God continue to bless your musical and
entrepreneurial endeavors.

97m..?

9 COUNCIL 
. a.

 

 

 

 

   

COUN MEMBER
May 14, 2019

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

JOSEPH ANTHONY FIDDLER

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

Mill-I

 

CF PHESID KIT 


f' 


CU HLMEM Fl

KL

Cl 



[an

it.?

      

?Amp Fiddler?
15};
Joseph ?Amp? Fiddler was born 1965 in Detroit, Michigan. He is the product of the
in?uential Motown and Techno sound created in Detroit. Giving in to his love of music
he learned to play the piano at an early age. Later he studied music at Oakland and
Wayne State Universities and was mentored by jazz great Harold McKinney; and

Joseph ?Amp? Fiddler has been shaping modern music for over thirty years. He is a
singer, songwriter, keyboardist, and record producer. His musical style includes funk,
soul, and electronica music. From 1985 to 1996 he toured with George Clinton?s
Parliament Funkadelic groups. He also contributed to the band Enchantment; and

Joseph ?Amp? Fiddler has played with music greats such as Prince, Maxwell, the Brand
New Heavies, Ramsey Lewis, the Dramatics, Primal Scream, Was (Was Not) and Too
Short. He has also worked with Detroit Techno and electronic music artists including
Mike Banks, Jeff Mills, Carl Craig, Rob Hood and Louis Vega, Laurent Garnier, and
Kraftwerk; and

Joseph ?Amp? Fiddler with the assistance of his bass?playing brother Thomas ?Bubz?
Fiddler, released ?With ReSpect? on Elekra as Mr. Fiddler in 1990. By January 2004 he
released his ?rst solo album, ?Waltz of a Ghetto Fly?. Another solo album, ?Afro Strut?
was released in 2006 in the United Kingdom; and

Joseph ?Amp? Fiddler is constantly requested on international tours. His unique musical
style is appreciated by citizens in Detroit as well as abroad; THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Office of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council recognizes
Joseph Anthony Fiddler for his contribution as an international musical artist. May
God continue to bless your musical endeavors.

Mics 4/

 

 

    



 

L-

 

I COUN
May 14, 2019

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

    

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

HON. DAMON JEROME KEITH

We. the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the late legendary
Hon. Judge Damon Jerome Keith, a devoted husband. beloved father, grandfather, mentor, friend and Senior Judge of the
United States Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, who made his heavenly transition on April 28, 2019. Judge Keith was the longest-
serving blackjudge in the nation; and

A grandson of slaves, Damon Jerome Keith was born in Detroit, Michigan, on Independence Day July 4, 1922. He was the
youngest ofseven children born to Perry and Annie Keith. His father moved the family from Georgia in the 1920s to get ajob at
a Ford plant, earning $5-per-day as a foundry worker. Judge Keith?s inspiration began with the vital lessons he learned from his
father who was also a real estate business owner. Perry Keith taught his son that he was somebody; to love your family; and to
work hard for it. He insisted that college was in his son's future. Keith graduated from Northwestern High School in 1939. He
then moved on to West Virginia State College where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1943. Keith served in a segregated
Army unit during World War II, from 1943 to 1946. He was honorably discharged as a Sergeant. His aspiration to become a
lawyer was partly sparked by the racism he experienced when he came home from his wartime service, having to still ride on the
back of the bus, drink from separate water fountains and use separate bathrooms, and not being able to go into restaurants. Keith
enrolled at Howard University School of Law where he received a Bachelor of Laws in 1949. There, he studied under the
renowned civil rights warrior, Thurgood Marshall, who later became the ?rst African-American US. Supreme Court Justice.
Marshall showed Keith how to use the courts and the US. constitution to battle segregation and Jim Crow laws. After graduating
from Howard, Keith worked as a janitor at the Detroit News while studying for his bar exam. He became a clerk for Loomis,
Jones, Piper Colden, a black law ?rm and later returned to the ?rm as a lawyer. Keith received a Master?s in Law in 1956 from
Wayne State University and in 1964 opened his own law ?rm, which eventually became known as Keith, Conyers, Anderson,
Brown Wahls; and

In 1953, Damon J. Keith was united in marriage to Rachel Boone. Born in Monrovia, Liberia, Rachel broke racial and

gender barriers, earning a medical degree from Boston University in 1949. Dr. Rachel Keith worked at Detroit Receiving Hospital
and later opened her own practice. To this union three daughters were born: Cecile Keith Brown, Debbie Keith and Gilda Keith.
They were the proud grandparents of two granddaughters, Nia Keith Brown and Camara Keith Brown. His beloved wife of ?fty-
three years, Rachel Boone Keith, made her transition in 2007; and

Keith served as a Wayne County Commissioner (1958-63), president ofthe Detroit Housing Commission (1958-67) and co-chair
of Michigan?s ?rst Civil Rights Commission (1964-67). In 1967, he was appointed to the US. District Court for the Eastern
District of Michigan by President Lyndon Johnson. Keith, who served as chiefjudge of the district court, was elevated to the US.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth District in 1977 by President Jimmy Carter. Serving more than ?fty years in the federal
courts, Judge Keith was one ofthe most in?uential Federal jurists of the 20?h and 21" centuries. His rulings in a string of high-
pro?le cases catapulted him to the status of national civil rights icon. In 1970, when Keith was a US. District Court judge, he
ordered citywide busing to desegregate public schools in Pontiac, Michigan. was the ?rst decision on federal court-ordered
busing outside of southern states, and prompted serious death threats. in 1971, Judge Keith made another groundbreaking
decision, ?nding that the city of Hamtramck, Michigan, illegally destroyed black neighborhoods to make way for the 
Freeway in the name of urban renewal, with the federal govemment?s help. That same year, he captured the nation?s attention
again with the wiretapping case against President Richard Nixon?s administration. Judge Keith ruled that Nixon?s attorney
general had to disclose the transcripts of illegal wiretaps that were authorized without ?rst obtaining a search warrant. He also
upheld Detroit Mayor Coleman A. Young?s af?rmative action program, which desegregated the city?s mostly white police force;
and

Judge Keith received more than forty honorary degrees and some of the highest accolades from civic, academic and civil rights
organizations across the country. He also received the Edward J. Devitt Distingiished Service to Justice Award, the highest award
that can be bestowed on a member of the federal judiciary. In 2011, Wayne State opened the Damon J. Keith Center for Civil
Rights in the university's law school. in later years, Judge Keith hosted his popular annual Soul Food Luncheon to honor an
African-American leader for contributions to the community. Judge Damon Jerome Keith has left his indelible mark on the
Detroit community and beyond. He has been a good servant and ensured that the values and traditions by which he lived, would
exist in the hearts of those he cherished for years to come. ?He did the best he could with his God?given talent. and he used his
life and the [aw to try to make things betterfor aHAmericans. Judge Damon Jerome Keith. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones,joins with family and friends in honoring the life
and legacy of Judge Damon Jerome Keith. He will be greatly missed and his contributions and the lessons he taught will live


COUNCIL ESIDENT 

COUNCIL MEMBER 

on forever.




 

 

 

201% ant 16 PM

marten MEMBER 
May 13, 2019
DATE

 

.I. 
i "tel?ER

 

 



-.- i. 

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

%astimaniatix (We. sat) Let/(10w

Detroit?s Day of the Young Child

April 27, 2019 was designated as Detroit?s Day of the Young Child (DDYC) by Hope Starts Here
Detroit?s Early Childhood Partnership. Hope Starts Here (HSH) is Detroit?s Early Childhood
Partnership that has engaged families, businesses, child education and health experts, and the larger
community in creating a vision to ensure that children are born healthy, prepared for kindergarten,
and on track for success by third grade and beyond; and

Through DDYC, Hope Starts Here works to ensure access to high quality child care for all families.
Increasing the quality, quantity and accessibility of child care programs helps families work, helps
child care businesses grow, helps the child care workforce advance and helps the next generation
of workers be prepared for school and life; and

In November of 2016, Hope Starts Here launched a wide scale one-year community engagement,
advocacy and strategic planning process with three goals: 1. To create a vision of what early
childhood could look like in Detroit; 2. To develop a community framework to make that vision a
reality; 3. To inspire people across the city to get involved and bring that community framework
to life; and

The Hope Starts Here plan was developed because over 6,000 people shared ideas of what Detroit
can do to help children grow up healthy and happy in the city. The community framework
developed ?ve policy priorities that are imperative to the success of our young children: 1. Support
parents and caregivers as children?s ?rst teachers and champions; 2. Increase the overall quality of
Detroit?s early childhood programs; 3. Guarantee safe and inspiring learning environments for our
children; 4. Create tools and resources to better coordinate systems that impact early childhood; 5.
Find new ways to fund early childhood education and make better use of current resources; and

On Detroit?s Day of the Young Child, families can celebrate their children like Mothers are
celebrated on Mother?s Day and Fathers are celebrated on Father?s Day. Detroiters are encouraged
to help Hope Starts Here create an advocacy network that puts our young children and families
?rst; and

Parents and caregivers play the most important role in a child?s life. It?s going to take all of us to
make Detroit a city where CHILDREN NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, encourages all
citizens to champion early childhood in the City of Detroit.

.r


 

I a COUNCIL PH

CON {1



ou LMEMB -


 

 

 

May_15 019

DATE

 

Tes?hom'al Resulun'm In Mcmon'am for WM Submitted by Councritman Gabe Leland
January 29, 1934 -- April 26, 2019

WHEREAS Lorenzo Julius Shelton was born Monday, January 29, 1934 in Detroit, MI to the late Reverend Alexander Alfred and Harriett
Ophilena Shelton. He was one of eight children. Lorenzo, known to his family affectionately as was raised in Detroit, MI. At the age of 16,
Lorenzo graduated Summa Cum Laude from Miller High School, Class of 1950. After a high school oratorical competition, Lorenzo was sought after
by the Domestic Outfitting Company, where he worked as a salesman for two years. In 1952, at the age of 18, Lorenzo passed two apprenticeship
exams for electrical operator and mechanical operator, which launched his engineering career. While serving as a 3rd Class Stationary Engineer for
the Department of Public Works, Lorenzo attended Wayne State University. Shortly after his college enrollment, Lorenzo was drafted into the
distinguished 101st Airborne Division of the US. Army, and was honorably discharged from Active Duty in November 1958; and

WHEREAS Upon his arrival back to Michigan, Lorenzo quickly passed the 2nd Class Stationary Engineer Exam and was transferred to the
Eastside Asphalt Plant. Always evolving, Lorenzo swiftly advanced to 1st Class Stationary Engineer and Boiler Inspector, which was very rare for an
African-American to achieve due to racial discriminatory practices within the region. This reality did not stop him from receiving high scores on additional
exams, resulting in a promotion to General Operating Foreman at the Housing Commission Parkside Projects. After a few years as General Inspector,
Lorenzo was appointed to Modernization and Rehabilitation Coordinator for the Detroit Housing Commission, where he received accolades for his

talent as a specification writer; and

WHEREAS Lorenzo received multiple certificates and licenses in an array of disciplines. From the City of Detroit, he was licensed as a
Reciprocal Heating Contractor, Mechanical Contractor Supervisor, and held a 1st Class Stationary Engineer License from the Building, Safety
Engineering, and Environmental Department in Detroit, he held a 1st Class Stationary Engineer License from Dearborn making him the 1st African-
American to receive this distinction. He received a Residential Builder License and Mechanical Contractor License from the Michigan Department of
Licensing and Regulatory Affairs. Additionally, Lorenzo held a 1st Class Stationary Steam Engineer License from the Ohio Department of Commerce,
Division of Industrial Compliance. From Ferris State University, he was awarded an HVAC License with a specialty in Refrigerant Transition and
Recovery and was certified as a Universal Technician. Later, he received a certificate of completion from the Builder License Training Institute. With
his rich experience as a Stationary Engineer, Lorenzo shared his knowledge as a trade instructor at Wayne State University; and

WHEREAS Lorenzo valued faith, family, and education. As an active member of Plymouth United Church of Christ, he reared his children in
Christianity. Lorenzo traveled the US. with the United Youth for Christ Choir (UYCC), under the direction of Clarence VanWiegerden. With UYCC,
Lorenzo sang baritone for the multiracial 1000 Voice Ensemble. Additionally, Lorenzo thoroughly enjoyed spending time with family, including the
infamous annual Shelton Christmas Gathering where family throughout the states would gather to celebrate our faith and family; and

WHEREAS Lorenzo understood the importance of education, literacy, grammar, and mathematics instilled by his parents. As a result, Lorenzo
imparted this message with his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Always supporting his lineage?s educational and extra-curricular
interests, while attending scholastic and extra-curricular activities, and he never forgot to acknowledge a special event with his legendary ?Hallmark

card?; and

WHEREAS Lorenzo?s legacy of promoting scholarly pursuits propelled the founding of Serendipity, Collage, and Potpourri (SCP), a non?profit
whose flagship donation drive provides backpacks and supplies to underserved youth in Southeastern Michigan. Lorenzo co-founded SCP with his
daughter, Judith Shelton. Additionally, he served as Director of Operations and grant writer for the United Generation Council Theatrical Troupe
(UGCTT), where his daughter, Deirdre Young (Shelton), served as youth director. UGCTT carried a message of Anti-Alcohol, Tobacco and other
Drugs throughout southeast Michigan at local community centers, churches, and summer youth events. Lorenzo knew that education was the
foundation for a bright future, which thrusted his unwavering support for both non-profit's mission to uplift Detroit-area youth; and

WHEREAS Lorenzo Julius Shelton passed away peacefully on Friday, April 26, 2019 in Southfield after a short illness. Left to cherish his
memory are his children, Glenn (Artis Shelton); grandson, Joshua; great-grandson, Joshua Jeremiah; Julian (Annette Rainwater); grandson, Julian 
and daughter-in-Iaw, Debra; Judith ?Judy"(Emceria Shelton-Mayberry); grandson, K?Savion; Lorenzo II and Lorenzo (Virginia Shelton) who both
preceded him in death; Deirdre (Virginia Shelton); grandchildren, Charles IV Sienna; and son-in-Iaw, Charles his stepdaughters Karen (Emceria
Shelton-Mayberry) and Michele (Virginia Shelton); his siblings, Ophilena Shelton-Mann, Tedd Shelton, and siblings who preceded him in death including
Alexander, Jr; Sylvester; Sylvia; Dewey; and Parthina; and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, and a multitude of friends. Lorenzo will be deeply
missed by his family and friends who adored, respected, and loved him. NOW THEREFORE, LET IT BE

RESOLVED That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members of Detroit City Council hereby join family and friends in celebrating the life and legacy
of Lorenzo Julius Shelton. May the memories of his love, faith, and hard work be cherished always and continue to fill the hearts of his many love
ones. In his heart a man plans his course, but the Lord determines his steps. Proverbs 16:9 (NIV)

05.15.2019 
MAY 23, ZIJIEI

