?PaFarrab
b/ILS/lq

BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

Christopher Gulock, AICP

David Whitaker, Esq. @it? at Estr? it Derrick Headd

Director Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Irvin Corley, _Jr. CITY OUNC IL Kimani Jeffrey
Executive Policy Manager 

Marcel! R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION All"? Mane Langan
Senior City Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 21m": Mgr??

Jam? Chapman Detroit, Michigan 48226 K?g?gwb" 

Dewy pm? Phone: (313) 224?4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Anal,? Foam, PM).
John Alexander Jennifer Reinhardt
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley

M. Rory Bolger, AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter

Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etheridge Ashley A. Wilson
Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council 

FROM: David Whitaker, Direelog?L
Legislative Policy Division

DATE: June 19, 2019

RE: Supplemental Report on Economic Hardship Exemption in Special
Assessment Districts

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has received and reviewed the opinion of the Law
Department relative to a proposed ordinance provision allowing for an economic hardship
exemption in Special Assessment Districts. LPD concurs with part of the Law Department?s
assessment regarding unpaid special assessments once they have reached the collection process
under the General Property Tax Act (GPTA). We disagree with the ?nding that the special
assessment is inherently subject to the GPTA prohibiting the allowance of an economic hardship
provision in the ordinance, which was the heart of the joint assignment to our respective of?ces.
As stated in our report of June 5, 2019, LPD ?nds both State law and the City?s Code silent on
this issue. The need to protect vulnerable property owners by amending the current special
assessment ordinance in a manner that provides relief to those in poverty as quali?ed under the
Board of Review guidelines is available, as a matter of public policy.

The City of Detroit?s authority to develop an ordinance providing for Special Assessment
Districts is derived ?'om the Home Rule City Act, MCL 117.5i which provides in pertinent part:

(1) Whether or not authorized by its charter, a city with a population of more than
600,000 may provide by ordinance a procedure to ?nance by special assessments
the provision by private contractors of snow removal from streets, mosquito
abatement, and security services. The ordinance shall authorize the use of
petitions to initiate the establishment of a special assessment district. The record
owners of not less than 51% of the land comprising the actual special assessment
district must have signed the petitions.

Pursuant to the authority granted under MCL 117.5i, the City developed an ordinance that
established a process whereby segments within our City could elect to ?nance by special
assessments the provision by private contractors of snow removal from streets, mosquito
abatement, and security services. Nothing in this grant of authority prohibits the City from
providing in its ordinance procedures to ?nance special assessments, a manner in which those
persons undergoing ?nancial hardship can be exempted, so long as it does not con?ict with the
other existing laws. The special assessment is not a tax and is not authorized by the GPTA. In
Kadzban City of Grandville, 442 Mich. 495, 502 N.W.2nd 299 (1993), the Michigan Supreme
Court stated special assessment is a levy upon property within a speci?ed district. Although it
resembles a tax, a special assessment is not a tax.? Id at 500.

In Knott v. City ofFlint, 363 Mich. 483, 109 908 (1961) the Court stated:

It has been repeatedly held by this Court, and by other courts as well, that special
assessments for local improvements on the basis of bene?ts received are not
taxes, and that an exemption from taxation under a general law of the State will
not relieve from liability for municipal assessments of the character in question.
Id at 497.

Understanding that the special assessment is not a tax is critical to understanding how the GPTA
applies. A similar construct exist with the solid waste fee, which is also not a tax, however, just
as in the instance of unpaid special assessments, the collection of the unpaid solid waste fees
may be subject to collection under the GPTA. However the collection of the unpaid solid waste
fees under GPTA did not and does not prohibit the City ?om creating exceptions to those
required to pay. The City?s Solid Waste Ordinance, Section provides for a
hardship condition exempting those who meet the criteria. If the person meets the criteria for the
full exemption of the solid waste fee, results in no solid waste fee to be collected under GPTA.
The City is able to provide this exemption to the solid waste fee because the States preemptive
jurisdiction regarding taxes under the GPTA (which prohibits any tax exemptions not granted by
State law) does not apply to non-tax matters such as fees or special assessments.

LPD reviewed the Law Department?s reliance on the GPTA as it relates to the process for
collection of special assessment where the Wayne County Treasurer (WCT), is acting as the
?collecting of?cer? as set forth under MCL 211.55:

A township treasurer or other collecting officer may include as a delinquent tax
any unpaid special assessment which is delinquent on the last day of February in
the delinquent taxes returned to the county treasurer the next day pursuant to this
section. A delinquent special assessment included as a delinquent tax pursuant to
this section shall, after return to the county treasurer, be a valid tax for all
purposes under this act. (Emphasis added)

When analyzing this language LPD ?nds, ?rst, the GPTA does not mandate that the unpaid
special assessment be included as a delinquent tax. It is not mandatory that the special
assessment be collected by the WCT as a delinquent tax. Secondly, it is not until ?after return to
the county treasurer, shall it be deemed a valid tax for purposes under the GPTA. In essence, it is

not a tax as determined under GPTA prior to the acceptance which must occur as
delinquent on the last day of February. Prior to this date, the GPTA does not apply.

It is only after the last day of February when the WCT has determined to include the unpaid
special assessment as a delinquent tax does the process for collection of taxes under the GPTA
apply to special assessments. Until then, ?a special assessment. . it is a speci?c levy designed
to recover the costs of improvements that confer local and peculiar bene?ts upon property within
a de?ned area.? (Kadzban, Id at 500). Understanding that the special assessment critical to the manner in which the special assessment can be treated. As indicated above
there is nothing in the Home Rule City Act prohibiting the City?s special assessment ordinance
from including a hardship exemption that can be applied prior to any unpaid special assessment
being included in the WCT delinquent tax collection under MCL 211.55. LPD also looked at the
Charter provision Section 8-604, Assessment Lien, cited in the Law Department?s opinion. This
provision provides:

From the date of confirmation of any r011 levying any special assessment, the
full amount of the assessment and all interest thereon shall constitute a lien on the
property subject thereto and that amount shall also be a debt of the person to
whom assessed until paid and, in case of delinquency, may be collected as
delinquent city property taxes. (Emphasis added)

This provision calls for the full amount of the assessment and all interest thereon to constitute a
lien until paid, and may be collected as delinquent city property taxes. The language requires the
full amount of the assessment to be paid, if unpaid, it may be collected as delinquent property
taxes under the GPTA. However, like the GPTA provision under MCL 211.55, there is a time
factor that triggers the Charter provision under Section 8-604. The assessment lien is not
effective until the date of con?rmation of any roll levying any special assessment. The ?date of
con?rmation? is the date endorsed by the City Clerk after City Council con?rms the special
assessment roll as set forth in Section 18-12-133(b) of the City Code which provides:

Once the City Council con?rms the special assessment roll, the City Clerk shall
endorse on the special assessment roll the date of the con?rmation, and shall
deliver copies of the assessment roll to the Board of Assessors, Treasurer, and
sponsoring DNIO. The Treasurer shall proceed to collect the special assessment,
and shall continue to do so annually during the Term of the SAD. The Treasurer
may invoice the record owners directly for the special assessment, or the
Treasurer may include the special assessment as a separate item on the summer
or winter tax bill. If the nature of a service is such that a periodic
redetermination of cost will be necessary without a change in the SAD
boundaries, the Treasurer shall include with, or send contemporaneously with,
the invoice or property tax bill a statement that the cost redetermination(s) may
be made without further notice to Record Owners or parties in interest in the
property, subject to the limitations in section 

 

Upon the date in which the special assessment roll is con?rmed, all assessments on the
assessment roll are ?nal and conclusive as set forth under Section However, there
is nothing in the Charter or law prohibiting the ordinance from providing a hardship exemption
prior to the ?date of con?rmation? of the special assessment roll. Prior to the City Council?s

3

con?rmation of the special assessment roll the Board of Assessor?s are to provide a ?tentative
special assessment roll pursuant to Section 18-12-130 to City Council and thereafter a public
hearing is to be held prior to City Council?s con?rmation of the special assessment rolls. As this
entire process is outlined by ordinance, amendments can be provided that allow for a
determination of those eligible for a poverty exemption prior to the ?date of the con?rmation?.

Therefore, based upon the information set forth above it is opinion that an amendment to
the Special Assessment District ordinance allowing for a poverty hardship exemption is not
prohibited by the GPTA if applied before the WCT accepts the unpaid special assessment. In
addition, the Charter provision Section 8-604 Assessment Lien, would not prohibit an amendment
to the Special Assessment District ordinance allowing for a poverty hardship exemption if
applied before the ?date of con?rmation? of the special assessment roll.

If we can be of further assistance, please feel free to call upon us.

