VOTE

9/2/16

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

 RULL U11 1 

., ?0 7?
James A. Buri

Retired DPS Educator, Administrator DAPCEP Director

 

WHEREAS the members of the Detroit City Council are delighted to honor an outstanding
educator for his leadership and dedication to our students in the City of Detroit;

and

WHEREAS James A. Buri grew up in Royal Oak, MI and attended Royal Oak Public
Schools. He went on to ?n'ther his education by graduating from Albion College
with a BA in Economics, received his master?s degree in Elementary Education
and Teaching from Oakland University and attended of Mercy where he
earned an Education Specialist Degree in Urban Education Leadership; and

WHEREAS after serving two years in the National Teacher Corps, James returned to his
native Detroit community and his passion with elementary school science
began. His 36 years of serving our DPS students took him from Science Teacher
to Science Specialist to Assistant Principal and ?nally Program Director of
and

WHEREAS through his tireless commitment and outstanding service to so many students,
James has mentored, encouraged and helped to change numerous lives; and

WHEREAS James A. Buri has received many educational awards and recognitions, his
kindness, energy, graciousness and genuine love for his students has enriched
those fortunate enough to know and be taught by him; THEREFORE, LET IT
BE

RESOLVED that Councilwoman anee? L. Ayers and the entire Detroit City Council express
our sincere appreciation and joins in honoring James for his devotion and
positive impact on our youth. He is truly one of Detroit's ?nest treasuresTune. 2- 

Darla

 

Submitted by Council

 

Member Casta?eda-Lopez
I I 

. I
1533'


WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL [0 5 

John Treanor

Retired, City of Detroit, 1987 ?2019 

John Treanor was born on May 2, 1957 to Irish immigrant parents, John and Kathleen Treanor in
Detroit, Michigan. He grew up on the west side of Detroit near Joy and Evergreen as the second of
seven kids. in l9?8, he married Cathy, and later that year. he graduated from Schoolcral't College.
They settled in the Detroit neighborhood of Warrendale, and lived there until I995, when the family
moved to Dearborn. He and Cathy have four children: Bianca, Keith, Carla and John, and ?ve
grandchildren: Lukas, Nolan, Rory, Alex and Mia; and

In 1987, John began working for the City of Detroit Department of Buildings and Safety as a housing
inspector. and eventually moved on to be a Dangerous Building Inspector. Over the years, John
developed great enthusiasm for the rebirth of Detroit. Despite the negative reputation of some of
Detroit?s neighborhoods, John never had much fear heading into them. John built relationships with
those living and doing business in his assigned neighl'iorhoods. He cared very much about removing
blight, with the hope of helping businesses and families thrive in the city: and

John has always been proud of his Detroit roots, with many found memories growing up in his
Detroit neighborhood and raising his children in Warrendale. Even though John and Cathy no longer
live in Detroit, they still spend quite a bit of their free time here supporting business and events in the

city; and

John worked hard to support his family, he also spent quality time with them on family vacations,
making sure they had memorable trips. John is always up for an adventure. He enjoys scuba diving,
camping. racquetball. bike riding and gardening. lie is known to spontaneously drop by to pick up his
grandchild for a bike ride, or to check on their plants in the garden. He loves to take his grandchildren

on outdoor adventures: and

John Treanor retired from the City of Detroit in the Spring of 2019. He will certainly be spending
more time with his treasured grandchildren and they can?t wait to spend extra time with their
?Poppy?. While he has many things to look forward to in retirement, it is no doubt bittersweet for him
to say goodbye to his co?workers and his daily route through the neighborhoods of Detroit that has
been a part ofhis life for the last 32 years. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Casta?eda?L?pez and her colleagues on the Detroit City Council
congratulates John Treanor as he closes the door on thirty-two years of dedicated service to the
citizens of Detroit and begins phase two of a life we are sure to be full of adventure and purpose.
Thank you John Treanor for your thirty-two years of dedication, community engagement and
service to the city of Detroit.



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:



Common l?v? .MBER

  

my -- sron?a- TE?i/f
I 




DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander

?Executive rtistic Director 0 'Hialzer Praise Dance Academ 
.1

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander has been married to Ronald Alexander for eleven years and to this
union was born one daughter, Sandria Rush, two stepchildren, Alex, and Ryan Alexander and
one Grandson, Brandon Rush, it. She worked For the City of Detroit, retiring in 2006. She
attended Jubilee City Church in Westland, AND

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander received her BBA in Business Administration from Davenport
University, attended Marygrove College in Detroit, MI, where she received ten years of
Professional Dance training, she also received Biblical ?Layman Training" from Word of Faith
Christian Center in South?eld, MI and was Certi?ed as a Dance Minister through the Eagles
International Training Institute; AND

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander is the Author of the Book How to Develop a Powerful Dance
Ministry? and an instructor of the course How to Develop a Powerful Dance Ministry"
and author of the Charm School Manual called am a Beautiful Girl? and an instructor of the
Charm School course for young girls; AND

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander, has conducted Youth Workshops for teenage boys and
girls. Mrs. Alexander has been the church dance instructor of Praise, along with her daughter
Sandria as Co~Direct0r, For all ages since 199?, and has facilitated and organized annual Dance
Recitals and Workshops since 1993; AND

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander, is the recipient of the Religious Medal of Honor Award through
Destiny Christian and the Life Changers Christian Arts Award. She has Co~Chaired the
National Liturgical Dance Network in Detroit and served as Director of Higher Praise Worship
Ministries Board of Directors.

Mrs. Susan K. Alexander has been the Executive/Artistic Director of Higher Praise Dance
Academy for twenty-?ve years; NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and the entire Detroit City Council honors Mrs.
Susan K. Alexander with this Testimonial Resolution. .

9M-

COUNCIL 


 

  
   
 

 

 

    

June 30, 2! 9
DATE 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL ?05

WHEREAS: Mr. Damion Jackson a former graduate of Detroit Mackenzie High School has
reinvested in continuing the rich legacy of Mackenzie High School and the City
of Detroit as the most creative Detroit Public School Alumni Association
President to date, AND

WHEREAS: Mr. Damion Jackson attended Lane College and Marygrove College (where he
earned a Master?s Degree in Reading Literacy) after earning a Bachelor?s
Degree in English at Lane College. From designing and running educational
programming focused on Detroit area youth, serving as a long term substitute
educator for the Detroit Public Schools, a College Entrance Exam expert, a tutor
creating an effective family guide for educational career planning, helping
families to developed strategic plans for attaining admissions to a two or four?
year college or university or post-secondary trade school, to displaying unique
entrepreneurship skills that youth can model.

WHEREAS: Whatever, Mr. Damion Jackson does it?s done with ?air and a high level of
integrity and excellence, AND

WHEREAS: As a Mackenzie High School Alumni Association President, Mr. Damion
Jackson has revolutionized the position and role where his gifts are used to
mobilize not only former Mackenzie High School students but a broad
perspective of former Detroit Public School student?athletes and educators;
NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

RESOLVED: That Council Member Roy McCalister and the entire Detroit City Council
join together in Honoring Mr. Damion Jackson with this 'l?cstimonial Resolution.
Thank you for your passion and dedication to helping the Students of the City

Detroit.

 

 

 
  

   
  
 
  

 



?r



ll. - 

  
 
 

 

power . 
ill

 

 

