Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Minutes of the Contract Compliance Committee
Tuesday, May 21, 2019

9:55 AM

River Trail Nature Center
3120 Milwaukee Ave, Northbrook, IL

ATTENDANCE
Present:

Arroyo, Miller, Anaya, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry and Moore (8)

Absent:

Sims (1)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Arroyo asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers,
in accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)
No Public Speakers

19-0278
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 06/05/2018
A motion was made by Vice Chair Miller,
19-0278. The motion carried by the following vote:

seconded

by

Commissioner

Ayes:

Arroyo, Miller, Anaya, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry and Moore (8)

Absent:

Sims (1)

Anaya,

to

approve

 Contract Compliance Committee

Committee Report

May 21, 2019

19-0229
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Refer to Contract Compliance Committee
Report Title: Forest Preserves of Cook County Annual Business Diversity Report FY 2018
Report Period: 1/1/2018 - 12/31/2018
Summary:

In July 2012, state legislation authorized the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest

Preserves”) to establish provisions to address the underuse of minority and women-owned businesses
with

respect

to

procurement

contracts.

An

ordinance

establishing

the

program’s

parameters

and

guidelines was passed by the Forest Preserves Board of Commissioners in September 2012. This initiative
is significantly benefitting the residents of Cook County by increasing the pool of qualified minority and
women-owned businesses that have the opportunity to be selected for contracts awarded by the District
each year.
To remedy historic inequity and to facilitate greater inclusion, the Forest Preserves established aspirational
contract goals for the participation of minority and women-owned as set forth under the ordinances that
comprise the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Municipal Code.
The Minority and Women-Owned Businesses program accomplishments in FY 2018 include; awarded
contracts achieved 47% minority and women-owned businesses participation; 55% of contract payments
were made to minority and women-owned businesses either as prime contractors or sub-contractors.
The Forest Preserves participated in 16 outreach and workshop conferences, many in collaboration with
various government entities.

Also, in 2018, the Board approved an amendment to the Minority and

Women Business Enterprise Ordinance to create the Established Business Enterprise Program which
allows for weighted program participation as Minority and Women-Owned Businesses grow and graduate
from the program.
A motion was made by Vice Chair Miller, seconded by Commissioner Anaya, to recommend for
receving and filing 19-0229. The motion carried by the following vote:

Page 2 of 3

 Contract Compliance Committee

Committee Report

May 21, 2019

Ayes:

Arroyo, Miller, Anaya, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry and Moore (8)

Absent:

Sims (1)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chair Donna Miller, seconded by Commissioner Alma Anaya, to
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Arroyo, Miller, Anaya, Deer, Degnen, Johnson, Lowry and Moore (8)

Absent:

Sims (1)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 3 of 3

 