'P-e?vrals
0/14/10;

 

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

 OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA CANCELED

 

 

petition Event Name:Church of the Messiah
June 29, 2019
None

 

Event Date 

 

Street Closure:
Organization Name: Church of the Messrah

 

 

Street Address: 231 East Grand Boulevard

 

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk's Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

 

l_Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):
I: Walkathon Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance Run/Marathon

 

l:l Bike Race Religious Ceremony Political Ceremony El Festival
Filming Parade I:l Sports/Recreation I: Rally/Demonstration
Fireworks Convention/Conference Other:

El 24-Hour Liquor License

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

Annual parade for the Church of the Messiah from 231 E. Grand Boulevard and surrounding streets
from 11:00am - 12:30pm.

 

 

ALL permits and license requirements must be ful?lled for an approval status 

 

I Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

 

DPD Assisted Event
DPD 

 

No Permits Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

El El 
EMS
DPD Assisted Event; No Permits Required
DPW 
Health Dept: No Jurisdiction

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA

APPROVED

DENIED

Additional Comments

 

TED





DPD Assisted Event; No Barricades
Required

 

Recreation

I


No Jurisdiction

 




Safety

No Permits Required

 

No Jurisdiction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bus. License 
All Necessary permits must be obtained
Mag: I: prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.
. . No Purchase of Parking Meters Required
MunICIpal
Parking El
DDOT Low Impact on Buses


 

OFFICE
Signature: ?bww Al?h'?m
Date: @043 lei], 

 

?Qtitp 13f. Eetrnit

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CLERK :Cauen West
City Geri: Deputy City Cterk/CMefofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Thursday, April 04, 2019

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT
MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING

788 Church of the Messiah, request to hold ?Church of the Messiah at 23] East
Grand on 6/29/20] 9 from Set-uo on 6/29/] 9 from 10
AM - 1 PM Tear down will be following event, with street closure ?om East
Grand to Lafayette beginning at I AM

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center I Detroit, Michigan 482263400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

#733

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork. You are
required to complete the information below so that the City of Detroit can gain a thorough understanding of
the scope and needs of the event. This form must be completed and returned to the City of Detroit Clerk?s
Of?ce. There is a 90 day review processdays, the petition could either be approved or
denied by departments. Please take into consideration the amount of time it will take to plan the event when
submitting the application. If submitted later than 90 days prior, application is subject to denial. Please type
or print clearly and attach additional sheets or maps as needed.

Section 1? GENERAL EVENT INFORMATION
EventName: Church of the Messiah

EventLocation; 231 East Grand 

   

Section 2- 
Organization Name. Church of the Messiah

   

 

Organization Mailing Address: 231 EaSt Grand 
Business Phone: 31 3'567'1 1 58
Federal Tax ID 38'3100064

If registered as a non-pro?t, indicate non-pro?t ID number and attach a copy of the certi?cate.

Business Fax:

A . Tamika R. Hamilton
pplicantName:

Title/Role: President-Board of Directors

 

Email Address: ram ndaO7@g mall .COITI

Mailing Address: 231 East Grand 
313-737-0162

Business Phone: Business ax::

Event On-Site Contact Person:

Mailing Address. Same as above

 

Business Phone: Business Fax:

List name/phone number of person(s) authorized to make decisions for the organization/event (indicate role/responsibility).

List Event Sponsors:

 

Elements (check all that apply)

 

  

 

 
  
 

 

 

Walkalhon Caron-31ft: ircus v? ?oncerLr'Pcrformunce
unihriaruthon ii-cc Race cliginus Ceremony
Political Event Festival ilming
arade allyi?Dcmonstralien
?ircworks ther:

 

 

 

- Restricted Times [or Parade in the Central Business District are: Mendav Fridayr 7:00 AM I0:[ll} Noon 4:0[1 
6:00 PM. And Special Events or Sporting Events. -

- Applicgts must reimburse the Cit?ir of Detroit for costs associated with their Special EventI including but not limited to Detroit Police
Department. Detroit Fire Department. Detroit Public Works Health Sc Wellness De artment Buildin 3: Safet and Business License.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be

 

completed)?
Begin Set-up Date Time: 10.008!? Complete Set-up Date Time: 1-00PM
Event Start Date Time: 1 1 ZOOAM Event End Date Time: 

 

Begin Tearing Down Date: ad} K.) ?n \Gl Complete Tear Down Batmaol (hm-c: 2'0 \ulv

Event Times (If more than one day, give times for each day): NONE

 

 

Is this the ?rst time you have held this event in the City of Detroit? Yes No

If no, what years has the event been held in Detroit? &60% a9 l, Q)
When was the event last held in Detroit? 3.9 8.4. 30 Lit-n 
Where was the event last held in Detroit? CH RCH TH ESS IAH

What were the hours last year? 1 2.30PM

Project Attendance This Year (Minimum Maximum)? 5'60 CO 
What is the basis for your projected attendance? BASED ON LAST YEARS ATTEN DAN CE

 

 

 

 

 

 

Please describe your anticipa ted/ target audience:

Is this going to be an annual event? Yes DNO
If yes, do you have a preferred/proposed for next year? a7 20a!)

If a made is planned. Indicate elements [check all that apply):

People -: al loans

'leuts v" nimals
ehieies -Ither:
sf 

 

1r animals included, speeiry type, number and how used. 0f 4

Name of business supplying animal(s): Soldiers

Contact Person: Ml". Bivans

Address: 36681 Grand River Ave Phone: 313-320-9009

City/State/Zip; Farmington Ml, 48335

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 3- 
Location ovaent: 231 EaSt Grand 
Facilities to be used (circle): Street Sidewalk Park City Facility

Please attach a site plan which illustrates the anticipated layout of your event including the following:

 

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid
-Location of merchandising booths -Location of ?re lane
-Location of food booths -Proposed route for walk/run
-Location of garbage receptacles -Location of tents and canopies
-Location of beverage booths -Sketch of street closure
-Location of sound stages -Location of bleachers
?Location of hand washing sinks -Location of press area

-Location of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

 

 

 

 

Section 4- ENTE RTAIN ENT

What type of entertainment will be used? (check all that apply)

ingers agieian
usicinns Story Telling
Dmedians titer:

pea 

Describe the entertainment for this year?s event:

 

List proposed entertainers and/or bands performing at the event: F- - R- Ente rtaln ment

 

Will a sound system be usedyes, what type of sound system?

 

EQCOUstic-uudible, sound heard within natural range

mpli?ed?augmenteci, sound increased to broaden
range

The ampli?ed sound will be used:

Will the event consist of a musical concert?  :IYes No

If es, what type of music? (check all that apply)
Live Discorded DiaraokeHJp-syneh

Describe speci?c power needs for entertainment and/or

music: NON 

How many generators will be used? NON 
How will the generators be fueled? ON 
Name of vendor providing generators:

Contact Person:

Address: Phone:

CityIStaterZip:

       

Section 5- 

  


Check all applicable boxes that describe the type of promotion you plan to use to attract participants:

Radio (Specify stations).
Television (Speci?c stations):
Newspapers (specify papers):
-Web site (identify web address):
.Public Relations or Marketing Firm (Specify):

?quad lnfo:
Raffle (List Item(s)):
Billboards
Posters
Flyers
Street Banners
[her {specify}:

 

 

 

 

 

NOTE: All raffles subject to laws of State/City.

 

 

 

 

 

  

Section 6- SALES INFORMATION
Will there be advanced ticket sales? Des .No

If yes, please describe:

Will there be on-site ticket sales? EYes .No
If yes, list price(s):

Will food be sold?  :lYes -No
If yes, please pick up Special Events Vendor Packet in Suite 105:

  

 

Will merchandise be sold? l:lYes -No
If yes, describe:

Will a percentage of the proceeds be distributed to a charitable organization? DY es ?0
Ifyes, describe:

If the event is a fundraiser, identify charity or recipient of funds:

 

Will there be vending or sales? :lYes No

If yes, check all that apply:

Deed crchandise 
Bon?lcoholic Beverages leoholic Beverages

{her (specify):

Indicate type of items to be sold:

 

Will these be exclusive vendors or outside vendors? (please describe): NO

 

Section 7? PUBLIC SAFETY PARKING 

   

Name of Private Security Company: Existing park contract security will be used.

Contactpmom Tamika R. Hamilton-Church of the Messiah
Address: Same as on previous page phone;

Cityr?StatcfZip.

Number of Private Security Personnel Hired Per Shift; V0lunteer8

Are the private security personnel (check all that apply):

DLicensed DArmed

Describe the emergency evacuation plan: None reqUIred-OUtdoor event

Describe the parking plan to accommodate anticipated attendance: 1 pa kl ng lot/Streets

How will you advise attendees of parking options? Volunteers

Are you seeking a group parking rate? No

  

DBonded

 

 

 

 

 

  

I-iow will your event impact the surrounding community 
pedestrian traffic, sound carryover. safety)?

Have local neighborhood groups/businesses approved your event?

Indicate what steps you have or will take to notify them of your event:

Through direct contact with community organizations and business

Section 8-

 

COMM UNITY IMPACT INFORMATION

Low to none

 

.Yes :lNo

 

Indicate contact names and phone numbers (for veri?cation) or attach approved letter(s):

AC. mel 3) 850?6689-Exec. Director of the Villages

 

 

 

 

Section 9? 

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event.

Structure

How Many?

Size/Height

Booth

Tent (enclosed on 3 sides)
Canopy (open on all sides)
Staging/Scaffolding
Bleachers

Company:
Grill

DSas Bharcoal

ircvvorks (Pyrotechnics)
Aerial Stage

Provide Sketch:

Portable Restrooms:

?tandard DADA Accessible

Vehicles

Type/Weight:

Other:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EElectrical

:Propane

 

 

NOTE: Speci?c requirements must be met and special approval must be received by the Detroit Fire Department.

Will additional electrical wiring need to be installed? Specify locations, voltage, amperage, and phase.

 

 

Will additional utility services be used (power, water, etc)? Please describe.

 

 

  

 

 

 

Do you plan a ?reworks display? List dates, time, location, vendor, and attach certi?cate of insurance.

 

 

      

Section 10- ALL THAT APPLY

 

Name of Sanitation Company collecting refuse and garbage?

Contact Person: ChurCh 0f the MeSSlah
Address: Same as noted on previous pages Phone;
Cityi'Statet'Zip

Name of company providing emergency medical services?

Contactpel?son; Church of the Messiah

Address: Same as noted on previous pages

i tnytater?Zip:

Name ofcompany providing ports-johns.

Contact Person:

Address: Phone:
Citnytatchip:

Name of private catering company?

Contact Person:

Address: Phone:
City'iStaleiZip:

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible streets you are requesting to he closed. Include the day, date, and time of requested closing and reopening.
Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME:

FROM East Grand 

TO Lafayette

Closure Dates: June (90 

Beg. Time: 

End Time: H1 1.008111

Reopen Date: Eh a: 2 g} ?It
Time: 1:00pm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME:

FROM Lafayette

TO Vandyke

Closure Dates: 72- a 9 510 
Beg. Time: 11:0[iam

End Time: _1j .

Reopen Date: gig 6m: 2?0 
Time: 1:00pm

STREET NAME:

FROM Vandyke

T0 Kercheval

Closure Dates: a?June?Qc? 

Beg. Time: 1_1:_00am

End Time: LDC) 
Reopen Date: C1 tit-Hr: Ch!) 1 a:
Time: 1'00pm

STREET NAME:

FROM Ke rcheval

TO East Grand 

Closure Dates: 27 June 2015

Beg. Time: 11:00am

End Time: 

Reopen Date: .3 ay} W4 :10 to]
Time: 1:0me ..

 

 

 

 

Requested City Equipment

 

 

Provided In: (year)
Current Request: (year)
Street Closures:

[eating no parking signs Bight pole
5

Electrical Services torage for Trailers/Trunks

Barricades are not available from the City of Detroit.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Is there any additional information that you feel is important to mention regarding your event or additional requests?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AFFADAVIT 0F APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief that I have read, understand and agree to abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed
Special Event, and I understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulation established by the
Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other requirements of the City, County, State,
and Federal Government and any other applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to
abide by these rules, and further certify that I, on behalf of the Event agree to be ?nancially responsible for any
costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to the City of Detroit.

.?tdiMaAoL-Qoi?

Signature of Applicant

 

Dute

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by the Special Events Management Team,
you will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, andfor restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indemnify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its agencies, officers, elected
of?cials, appointed of?cials and employees) harmless from and against injury, loss, damage or liability (or any
claims in respect of the foregoing including ciaims for personal injury and death, damage to property, and
reasonable outside attorney's fees) arising from activities associated with this permit, except to the extent
attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of the City.

Applicant af?rms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and Indemni?cation provision and
agrees to the terms expressed therein.

(Please Print)

Event Namezqi?Pa'raot? 0?)?ka Date; 3! 9. 2-9 


Event Organizer: QM,

ML

Applicant Signatutie; 3 WW Date: 0125?!? 9

 

 

 

 

yaw?F7 Q17 9* WACW

926$.? 404w

wapauag

 

 

2019?04?04 788

788 Petition of Church of the Messiah,
request to hold "Church of the
Messiah at 23] East Grand Blvd. on
6/29/20] 9 ?'om AM to 12:30 PM
Set-uo 0n 6/29/19??0m 10 AM - 1 PM
Tear down will be following event,
with street closure ?om East Grand
t0 Lafayette beginning at I I AM

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT

MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT

BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER BUILDINGS SAFETY

RECREATION DEPARTMENT

L4

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
May 24, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

3034216 100% City Funded TO Provide Residential Demolition for 4.1.2019
Group A (6 Properties in District 3) Contractor: Smalley Construction 
Location: 1224 Locust Street, Jackson, MI 49203 Contract Date: Upon
City Council Approval through April 21, 2020 Total Contract Amount:
$110,731.20. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract NO. 3034216 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 24, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

a COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
8; CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

May 30, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid
Waste and Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2,
Civil Fines for Violations

Honorable City Council:

At the request of Miriam Blanks-Smart, Director of the Department of Appeals and
Hearings, the Law Department has prepared and approved as to form the above-referenced
ordinance amendments for your consideration.

The purpose of the ordinance amendment is to create uniform measurements for illegal
dumping from a motor vehicle (in cubic feet). However, during discussion at the April 29, 2019
Public Health and Safety Committee meeting, the committee expressed concerns that the City?s
?nes are too low, considering the egregious nature of the offense. After review of littering ?nes
imposed by state statute, the Law Department has prepared an amended ordinance for your
consideration.

The proposed ordinance has been revised to increase ?nes and to create new classi?cations
for illegally dumping larger quantities of solid waste from a motor vehicle.

For your reference, I have attached a comparison chart of the ?nes from the ?rst proposed
amendment, the current proposed amendment, and the state of Michiga

espectfully . Imi

     

Ericka Savage Whitley
Assistant Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit Law Department
(313) 237-3008

Attachment

Citv Fines Proposed in April Version
(Dumping from a motor vehicle)

First offense

Less than 5 cubic feet $200

5 to less than 10 cubic feet $500

10 to less than 15 cubic feet $1,000
15 or more cubic feet $1,500

Repeat violations

(Dumping from motor vehicle)

Less than 5 cubic feet $200-$500

5 to less than 10 cubic feet 

10 to less than 15 cubic feet 
15 or more cubic feet 

City Fines Proposed in Mav Version
(Dumping from a motor vehicle)

First o?ense

Less than 5 cubic feet $800

5 to less than 10 cubic feet $1,500
10 to less than 15 cubic feet $2,500
15 or more cubic feet $3,500

Repeat violations

(Dumping from motor vehicle)

Less than 5 cubic feet 

5 to less than 10 cubic feet 
10 to less than 15 cubic feet 
15 or more cubic feet 

Current State Fines

(Any litter)

Less than 1 cubic foot $800

1 to less than 3 cubic feet $1,500
3 or more cubic feet $2,500

Repeat violations

A repeat offense of 3 or more cubic feet is
subject to a civil ?ne of not more than
$5,000.00.

SUMMARY

This ordinance amends Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid Waste
and Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines for Violations,
by amending Section 22-1?14, Civil fines for violation of Sections 22-2-83 and 22-2-
84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2?87, 22?2?88(b) and 22-2-96 and 22-2-97 of this Code
regarding solid waste except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal incurred by
City of Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings o?icer when determining ?ne; burden of
proof for factors upon the violator, adding Section 22-1-17, Civil fines for violations of Section
22-2-83 of this Code regarding solid waste from a motor vehicle except for medical waste and
hazardous waste; cost of removal incurred by City of Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings
o?icer when determining fine; burden of proof for factors upon the violator, and amending Article
II, Storage, Preparation, Collection, Transport, DiSposal, and Placement, Division 5, Illegal
Dumping, by amending Section 22-2-83, Dumping, storing or depositing solid waste, medical
waste, hazardous waste or bulk solid material on any publicly owned property, or private property
or water, without permit, to provide: uniform measurements for determining blight violations
related to illegal dumping of solid waste from a motor vehicle; uniform measurements for
determining ?nes related to illegal dumping of solid waste from a motor vehicle; and an additional
classi?cation and higher ?nes related to illegally dumping larger quantities of solid waste from a

motor vehicle.

COUNCILMEMBER
AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid

 

Waste and Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines for
Violations, by amending Section 22-1?14, Civil fines for violation of Sections 22-2-83 and
22-2-84(a) and (2) and (4), 22?2?87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2?96 and 22-2-97 of this
Code regarding solid waste except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal
incurred by City of Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings officer when determiningfine;
burden of proof for factors upon the violator, adding Section 22-1-17, Civil fines for violations of
Section of this Code regarding solid waste ?om a motor vehicle except for medical
waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal incurred by City of Detroit; factors to be considered
by hearings o?icer when determining ?ne; burden of proof for factors upon the violator, and
amending Article II, Storage, Preparation, Collection, Transport, Disposal, and Placement,
Division 5, Illegal Dumping, by amending Section 22-2-83, Dumping, storing or depositing solid
waste, medical waste, hazardous waste or bulk solid material on any publicly owned property, or
private property or water, without permit, to provide: uniform measurements for determining
blight violations related to illegal dumping of solid waste from a motor vehicle; uniform
measurements for determining ?nes related to illegal dumping of solid waste from a motor vehicle;
and an additional classi?cation and higher ?nes related to illegally dumping larger quantities of

solid waste from a motor vehicle.

HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 22

of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid Waste and Prevention of Illegal Dumping,
Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines for Violations, is amended by amending Section 22-
1-14, adding Section 22-1-17, and amending Article 11, Storage, Preparation, Collection,
Transport, Disposal, and Placement, Division 5, Illegal Dumping, Section 22-2-83 to read as

follows:

CHAPTER 22. HANDLING OF SOLID WASTE AND
PREVENTION OF ILLEGAL DUMPING
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Division 2. Civil Fines for Violations

Sec. 22-1-14. Civil fines for violation of Sections and?(d9, and 
(2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 and 22-2;97 of this Code regarding solid
waste except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal incurred by City of
Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings officer when determining fine; burden of proof
for factors upon th_e violator.

A person who violates any of the provisions of Sections 22-2-84(a) and
(2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96~or 22-2-97 of this Code regarding solid
waste, where the amount of the solid waste is less than ?ve (69 cubic yards in volume, is
responsible for a blight violation and, for the ?rst violation, is subject to a civil ?ne 01W
and, in accordance with Section 22?1-31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost

of removal by the City?ef?Detmit.

person who violates any of the provisions of Sections and?(d) 22-2?
84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22?2-96 or 22-2-97 of this Code, where
the amount of the solid waste is ?ve 6) or more cubic yards in volume but less than ten cubic
yards in volume, is responsible for a blight violation and, for the ?rst Violation, is subject to a civil
?ne of and, in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code, is responsible
for the cost of removal by the City?ef?Detreit.

A person who violates any of the provisions of Sections 22-2-83(c) 22-2-
84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22-2-96 or 22-2?97 of this Code, where
the amount of the solid waste is ten or more cubic vards in volume. is responsible for a blight
violation and, for the ?rst violation, is subject to a civil ?ne of one?thonsand?dollaa?f?l?OODO)
and, in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost of removal by the
City?ef?Detreit.

For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under sections 22-2-84(a)
and 1), (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22-2-96 or 22?2-97 of this Code, where the
amount of the solid waste is less than five 6) cubic yards in volume, a person shall be subject to
a civil ?ne of not less than two?handaueEl?dellars?(?OODO) but not more than 
($500.00) and, in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost of
removal by the City?ef?Detreit.

For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under Sections 22-2-83(c) 22-
2-84(a) and (2) and (4), 2212-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22-2-96 or 22?2-97 of this Code,
where the amount of the solid waste is ?ve g) or more cubic yards in volume but less than ten

cubic yards in volume, a person shall be subject to a civil ?ne of not less than ?ve?hum

but not more than and, in accordance
with section 22-1?31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost of removal by the City?of?Detreit.

For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under ?ections 22-2-83(c) 22-
2-84(a) and (2) and (4), 22?2-87, and (0), 22-2-96 or 22-2-97 of this Code,
where the amount of the solid waste is ten (l?Q)or more cubic yards in volume, a person shall be
subject to a civil ?ne of not less than but not more than two
and, in accordance with ?ection 22?1-31 of this Code,
is responsible for the cost of removal by the City-9mg

Each day on which any Violation of any of the provisions of Sections 
?l 22-2-84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 or 22-2-
97 of this Code continues shall constitute a separate violation. The imposition of a ?ne under this
section shall not be construed to excuse or to permit the continuation of any violation and, upon a
blight violation determination may be subject to a civil ?ne for each day the violation continues.
The determination as to whether an act or a failure to act is a continuing violation is within the
discretion of the hearings of?cer.

When determining the amount of a civil ?ne for a blight violation that is issued
under Subsections or of this section, the hearings of?cer shall consider all
of the following factors:

(1) The type of solid waste;

(2) The nature of the violation;

(3) The duration of the violation;

(4) The preventability of the violation;

(5) The potential and actual effect on the surrounding neighborhood or the

environment;

(6) The economic bene?t to the violator;

(7) The violator's recalcitrance or efforts to comply with law; and

(8) The economic impact of the ?ne on the violator.

These factors shall only be considered where the hearings of?cer determines that the violator has
made all good faith'efforts to correct and terminate the Violation. The violator shall have the burden
of proof regarding the presence and degree of any factor to be considered by the hearings of?cer
in determining the amount of the ?ne. In each case, the ?ne shall be set within the range that is
delineated in subsections or of this section for the corresponding amount
of solid waste.

Sec. 22-1-17. Civil fines for violation of Section 22-2-83(d) of this Code regarding solid waste
from a motor vehicle except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal
incurred lJ?r Citv of Detroit: factors to be considered bv hearings officer when determining
?ne: burden of proof for factors upon the violator.

A person who violates anv of the provisions of Section 22-2-83id] of this Code
regarding solid waste from a motor vehicle, where the amount of the solid waste is less than ?ve
cubic feet in volume, is responsible for a blight violation and, for the ?rst violation, is subiect to a
civil ?ne ot?ilSSUU and. in accordance with Section 22-1-3] ol'this Code. is responsible tor the cost
of removal bv the Citv.

A person who violates anv of the provisions of Sections 22-2-83(d) of this Code,
where the amount ot'the solid waste from a motor vehicle is live or more cubic feet in volume but

less than ten cubic feet in volume, is responsible fora blight violation and. for the first violation.

subiect to a civil ?ne of $1500.00 and. in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code. is
responsible for the cost ol?rentoval bv the itv.

(cl A person who violates anv of the provisions of Section of this Code.
where the amount of the solid waste from a motor vehicle is ten or more cubic feet in volume but
less than 15 cubic feet in volume. is responsible fora blitzht violation and. for the first Violation. is
subject to a civil tine of $1500.00 and. in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code. is
responsible for the cost of removal by the Citv.

A person who violates anv ol? the provisions of Section 22-2-83t?d) of this Code.
where the atnount of the solid waste from a motor vehicle is l5 or more cubic feet in volume is
responsible fora bliuht violation and. for the first violation. is subject to a civil ?ne of $1500.00
and. in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code. is responsible for the cost of removal by the
C_itv_.

For a rcpeat or subsequent bliuht violation under Section 22-2?83td) of this Code.
where the amount of the solid waste from a motor vehicle is less than ?ve cubic feet in volume. a
person shall be subiect to a civil ?ne ofnot less them $800.00 but not more than $1500.00 and- in
accordance with Section 32?1-31 ofthis Code. is responsible for the cost of removal bv the Citv.

Fora repeat or subsequent blight violation under Section 22?2-83td} of this Code.
where the amount ot?the solid waste from a motor vehicle is ?ve or more cubic feet in volume but
less than ten cubic feet in volume. a person shall be subject to a civil tine of not less than 331.500.00
but not more than $2,500.00 and. in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code. is responsible
for the cost of removal by the Citv.

[it] For a repeat or subsequent bliaht violation under Section 22-2-83td) of this Code.

where the amount of the solid waste from a motor vehicle is ten or more cubic feet in volume but

less than 15 cubic feet in volume. a person shall be suhiect to a civil fine of not less than $1500.00
but not more than $3500.00 and, in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code. is responsible
for the cost of removal bv the Citv.

For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under Section 22-2-83t'd) of this Code.
where the amount of the solid waste from a motor vehicle is 15 cubic feet or more in volume, a
person shall be subiect to a civil ?ne ofnot less than $3500.00 but not more than 355.000.00 and.
in accordance with Section 23-1-31 ofthis Code. is responsible for the cost of removal bv the City.

(il Each dav on which anv violation of anv of the provisions of Section 22-2-83(d) of
this Code continues shall constitute a separate violation. The imposition ofa ?ne under this section

shall not be construed to excuse or to permit the continuation of anv violation and. upon a bliaht

Violation determinatiOn mav be sub'ect to a civil fine for each da the violation continues. The

 

determination as to whether an act or a failure to act is a continuing violation is within the
discretion of the hearings of?cer.

When determining the amount of a civil line for a blinht violation that is issued
under Subsection of this section, the hearings of?cer shall consider all of the following factors:

(1) The Wee of solid waste:

The nature of the violation;

The duration ofthe violation:

(4) The preventahilitv ofthe violation:

The potential and actual effect on the surrounding neiahborhood or the

environment:
The economic benefit to the violator:

(7) The violator's recalcitrance or efforts to comply with law: and

(8) The economic impact of the ?ne on the violator.
These factors shall only be considered where the hearings of?cer determines that the violator has
made all good faith efforts to correct and terminate the violation. The violator shall have the burden
of proof regarding the presence and degree of any factor to be considered bv the hearings of?cer
in determining the amount of the fine. In each case, the time shall be set within the range that is
delineated in subsections (cl. tcl}. or of this section for the corresnonding
amount of solid waste.

Secs. 22-1-1??22-1-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. STORAGE, PREPARATION,

COLLECTION, TRANSPORT, DISPOSAL, AND PLACEMENT
Division 5. Illegal Dumping
Sec. 22?2-83. Dumping, storing or depositing solid waste, medical waste, hazardous waste, or
bulk solid material on any publicly owned property, or private property or water, without
permit; impoundment of vehicle.

No person shall dump, store or deposit or cause to be dumped, stored or deposited,
on any publicly-owned property, or private property or water, within the City of?Detreit any solid
waste, medical waste or hazardous waste, except at a waste disposal or storage facility for which
a permit or operating license has been properly issued pursuant to the provisions of this Code and
of other local, state and federal law. Such dumping, storing, or depositing without a permit is
declared to be a blight violation. In accordance with Section 22?1-32 of this Code. a +police of?cer
may impound a vehicle that is operated in the commission ofa blight violation.

Dumping, depositing, or placing solid waste less than ?ve cubic yards on any

private property, public property, right-of-way or surface water or around any approved or portable

container-ToHlora g. - .. .. -. is

 

hereby deemed unlawful and subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

(0) Unless otherwise provided for in this division, dumping, storing, depositing of solid
waste in an amount of ?ve cubic yards or more on any private property, public property, right-of-
way or surface water or around any approved or portable container is illegal dumping and is hereby
deemed unlawful and subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

Dumping, or depositing solid waste oHiare?eabieloet-oi?more in anv discernable
Quantity from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, city street, public or private property
or water or causing such solid waste to be dumped or deposited from a motor vehicle is illegal
dumping, and is hereby deemed unlawful and subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in
this chapter. Proof that the particular vehicle described in the blight violation was used to dump
or deposit solid waste gi ves rise to a rebuttahle presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle
was the driver of the vehicle at the time of the violation.

Dumping, storing, depositing or placing medical waste or hazardous waste in any
discernable quantity on any private property, public property, right-of?way or surface water or
around any approved or potable container is illegal dumping and is hereby deemed unlawful and
is subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

Dumping or depositing medical or hazardous waste in any discernable quantity
from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, city street, public or private property or water
or causing such solid waste to be dumped or deposited from any motor vehicle is illegal dumping
and is hereby deemed unlawful and is subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, dumping, storing, depositing, or

transporting bulk solid material on any private property, public property, right of way, or surface

10

11

water or around any approved or portable container is illegal dumping and is a blight violation
subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter. Asphalt millings removed as part of
a public paving or repaving project (a project conducted, controlled or funded by the governments
or agencies of the City of Detroit, the County of Wayne, the State of Michigan, or the United
States) and temporarily stored on or adjacent to that project for reuse in that project is not illegal
dumping if the temporary storage period does not exceed 45 days.

Violations of Article of this chapter not described by ?ection 
including but not limited to the escape of fugitive dust from an otherwise authorized collection of
bulk solid material in an amount that exceeds the opacity limit speci?ed in MCL 
regardless of quali?cation under MCL is unlawful and is subject to the ?nes and

penalties provided for in this chapter.

10

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by a two thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4-118(l) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is
passed by less than two thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become
effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118(2) of the 2012 Detroit
City Charter.

Approved as to form:


r? ?rm
Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

ll

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

May 30, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan

Re: Proposed Emergency Ordinance to Amend Chapter 33 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code, M11013, Article Regulation of Minors 1'11 Public Places and Adult
Responsib?ig/ for Virblation, for expanded curfew for the Detroit Annual
Fireworks Display

Honorable City Council:

At the request of the Chief of Police, the Law Department has prepared and approved as to
form the attached proposed emergency ordinance for your consideration.

Pursuant to the applicable provisions Of the 2012 Detroit City Charter, the above-referenced
proposed emergency ordinance is being submitted to your Honorable Body for consideration. This
proposed ordinance amends Chapter 33 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Minors, Article Regulation
oy?Mz'norr in Public Placer and Adult Violation, by adding Sections 33-3?14, 33-3?15, and
33-3-16 to provide for a superseding curfew for all minors on the evening of June 24, 2019, the
scheduled date for the 2019 Detroit Annual Fireworks Display, or on any rescheduled date for the
event.

Please note the proposed ordinance is identical to the emergency ordinance enacted the
previous two years, except for the change in date.

Thank you for your consideration. The Police Department and the Law Department will be
present for any committee or committee of the whole discussions and the public hearing on this
proposed emergency ordinance, and are available to answer any questions that you may have
concerning this proposed emergency ordinance.

Respectfully submitted,

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

cc: Deputy Chief E. Barren, Police Department
Second Deputy Chief Grant I-la, Police Department
Stephanie Washington, Liaison to City Council, Mayor?s Of?ce
David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division

Altar/Jme?t' Propored Ordinance, approoed a: lo?omz



This proposed emergency ordinance amends Chapter 33, Mz'norr, Article qunfrm'rm osz'rzorr
in Public Placer and Adult Reipom?ibz'lz'gl for Violatiom, Division 2, of the 1984 Detroit City Code
by adding Sections 33?3-14 and 33-3?15 to provide for a superseding curfew for all minors beginning
at 8:00 pm. on Monday, June 24, 2019 (being the scheduled date for the Detroit Annual Fireworks
Display, or any rescheduled date) and continuing until 6:00 a.m. the following morning, applicable
only in the area within and bounded by the Detroit River, Third Street, the Lodge Freeway 
the Fisher Freeway the extension of the Fisher Freeway (1?75) easterly to Gratiot Avenue,
Gratiot Avenue, Vernor Highway, Chene Street, Atwater Street, and the Aretha Franklin

Amphitheater.

A19-04395 i

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN EMERGENCY ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 33, Minors, Article Regulation of
Minors in Public Place: Roiponribilig/ for Violations, Division 2, Cof?n}, of the 1984 Detroit City
Code by adding Sections 33?3?14 and 33-3-15 to provide for a superseding curfew for all minors
beginning at 8:00 pm. on Monday, June 24, 2019 (being the scheduled date for the Detroit Annual
Fireworks Display, or any rescheduled date) and continuing until 6:00 a.m. the following morning,
applicable only in the area within and bounded by the Detroit River, Third Street, the Lodge Freeway
(M-10), the Fisher Freeway (I-75), the extension of the Fisher Freeway (1?75) easterly to Gratiot
Avenue, Gratiot Avenue, Vernor Highway, Chene Street, Atwater Street, and the Aretha Franklin
Amphitheater.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY

The Detroit City Council, upon receipt of testimony and evidence from the Detroit Police
Department and others, and after public hearing, upon due consideration makes the following
findings:

(A) On the day of and especially the evening of the Detroit Annual Fireworks Display that takes
place on the Detroit River there have been numerous incidents of harassment, nuisance, vandalism,
and violence committed by persons at the viewing, parking, and public places of the City before,
during, and after the ?reworks display;

(B) These acts of harassment, nuisance, vandalism, and violence have endangered the peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit, the many persons traveling from
outside the City limits to attend this annual event, and in particular unsupervised minors before and
during the City?s regular curfew hours for minors and;

(C) There exist public peace, health, safety, and welfare needs for effectively governing the

A19-04395 I

conduct of such minors as it pertains to harassment, nuisance, vandalism, and violence for the purpose
of alleviating and eliminating these problems, whether committed against minors or committed by
minors;

(D) Due to law enforcement considerations and logistics concerns, a localized curfew is
necessary to enhance the public peace, health, safety, and welfare for the many thousands of minors
and adults who attend this annual event;

(E) Due to the fact that spectators begin to gather in the viewing areas in advance of the
COMencement of the Detroit Annual Fireworks Display on the day of the event, the regular curfew
hours for minors provided for in the City?s Curfew Ordinance, codi?ed in Chapter 33, Article of
the Detroit City Code, are not suf?cient to alleviate and curtail criminal activity involving unsupervised
minors in the fireworks display viewing areas;

(F) The peace, health, safety, and welfare of the community-at?large and particularly that of
minors will benefit from additional curfew controls for minors in a localized area of the City during
the Detroit Annual Fireworks Display;

(G) The curfew for minors in the City provides for reasonable exceptions during the specified
curfew period to allow for minors accompanied by their parent, legal guardian, or responsible adult,
for minors at or traveling to and from places of employment, education and training facilities, and
sponsored activities under adult supervision, for minors involved in emergencies or constitutionally
protected activities such as interstate travel or freedom of speech, assembly or exercise of religion, for
minors on the sidewalks in front of their homes, and for minors sent on errands by their parents if
the minors have proper written permission.

Section 2. Chapter 33, Minors, Article Regulation osz'nom in Public Place; andAdn/t Roipomz'bz'lz'y
for Violations, Division 2, Onion), of the 1984 Detroit City Code is amended by adding Sections 33?3-14

and 33?3-15, to read as follows:

A19-04395 2

CHAPTER 33. MINORS
ARTICLE REGULATION OF MINORS IN PUBLIC PLACES AND ADULT
RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS
DIVISION 2. CURFEW
Sec. 33?3-14. Additional De?nitions.

For the purposes of this einergencv ordinance only, the definitions provided in this section
supplement the definitions provided in Section 33?3- 1. The following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them hv this section:

Detroit Annual Fireworks Displuv means the annual fireworks at the Detroit River, sponsored
bv the Parade Companv, typically on or about the fourth Mondav in une.

Detrrn'r Annual Fireworks Dirnlu Curler-r means the period of time commencine at 3:00 pm.
on the Detroit Annual Fireworks Displav Dav and continuing until 6:00 am. the next morning.

Detroit Annual Firm-rules Displuv Currier Zone means the area within and hounded ELY 
Detroit River, Third Street, the Lodge Freewav the Fisher Freeway the extension
ofthe Fisher Freeway easterly to Gratiot Avenue. Gratiol Avenue, Vernor Hinhwav, Chcne
Street, Atwater Street, and the Aretha Franklin Amphitheater.

Detroit Annual Fire works Displav Dav means Monday, June 24, 2019, or any rescheduled date
for the Detroit Annual Fireworks Displav.

Sec. 33-3-15. Curfew.

The provisions of this section shall supersede the curfew hours for minors provided for in
Section 33?3?1 1.

[it] During the Detroit Annual Fireworks Displav Curfew it shall be unlawful for a minor. as

defined in Section 33-3-1. to be on anv public street, sidewalk, allev, park, plaveround, vacant lot,

A19-04395 3

10

11

12

13

or at any other unsupervised public place in the Detroit Annual Fireworks Display Curfew Zone.

Secs. 33-3?14 33-3-16?3-3-20. Reserved.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
suspended during the Detroit Annual Fireworks Display Curfew (as de?ned in Section 2 of this
ordinance, Sec. only.

Section 4. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 5. In accordance with Section 4?1 16 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter, this ordinance
shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication.

Section 6. In accordance with Section 4?1 16 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter, this ordinance
shall expire on the sixty?first (6lst) day after enactment unless re?enacted as an emergency ordinance.
The expiration of this ordinance shall not affect any enforcement actions or penalties for violations
of this ordinance.

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

33W 41%

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

Al9?04395 4

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL. CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - I

3% 

Date: May 30, 2019



 
  

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 10900 Haverhill
NAME: Ernestine Tellis
Demolition Ordered: October 29, 2014

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on May 24, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for this

 

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fortv-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result ofa Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes Open to treSpass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Resp *ubmitto

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Ernestine Tellis, 20130 Regent DR, Detroit, MI 48205

r~ star-1a 20:9 



   

5: COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OI: DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 


Date: May 28, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 2964 Leslie
NAME: Ramel Howard, Howard Investment CO LLC
Demolition Ordered: October 8, 2018

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on May 28, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1? deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within _te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every fora-?ve (45) calendar
m, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: Ramel Howard, R. Howard Investment CO LLC, 15865 Gilchrist, Detroit, MI 48227
Ann Timmons, 1844 Crowndale LN, Canton, MI 48188

COLEMAN A. Youuo MUNICIPAL CENTER
. 2 Avenue. SUITE 1026
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
PIIONE: 313 - 628-258
FAX: 3 I3 - 224 .0542


or DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS

May 16. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: The Detroit Public Safety Foundation request to accept a grant to support
The BrotherhoodISisterhood Program

The Detroit Lions Charities has awarded the Detroit Public Safety Foundation with a
grant for a total of $100,000.00. There is no match requirement for this grant.

The objective of the grant is to support The BrotherhoodISisterhood Program. The
funding allotted will be utilized to provide six scholarships for the class of 2019 and
programming support for the 2020 program.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely,

?3.72;

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director, Grants

This Request has been approved by the Law Department.

g?

Office of Development and Grants an amino"-

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Detroit Public Safety Foundation has been awarded a grant from the Detroit Lions
Charities, in the amount of $100,000.00. to support The BrotherhoodiSisterhood Program; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; now

THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED, that the Detroit Public Safety Foundation is hereby authorized
to accept a grant. in the amount of $100,000.00, from the Detroit Lions Charities.

Page1of1

INSPIRE

 

May 14, 2019

Sheryl Jones

Detroit Public Safety Foundation
1301 Third St. Suite 547

Detroit, MI 48226

Dear Sheryl Jones.

Detroit Lions Charities is pleased to approve a grant in the amount of 5100.000 to The
Brotherhood/Sisterhood Program for the period July 1, 2019 through June 30. 2020. This grant must be
expended exclusively for charitable purposes, and is to provide funding for six scholarships for the c'ass of
2019 and programming support for the 2020 program.



The grant will be paid in a lump sum upon our receipt of this grant letter signed by an authorized TAPS
of?cer.

Payments {past or future) are conditioned upon Detroit Uons Charities? receipt and approval of all reports
due prior to the payment date. [See ?Account and Reporting Requirements" below.)

Detroit Lions Charities has the right to discontinue, modify or withhold any grant payments, to require a
refund of any unexpended funds. or both, if, in its sole and absolute discretion, any of the following occur:

Grant funds have been used for purposes other than those permitted by this letter;
SUch action is needed to comply with the requirements of any law or regulation;
Your organization has failed to maintain Its public charity status: or

Your organization's performance under this grant (including reporting requirements) has not been
satisfactory in the sole discretion of Detroit Lions Charities.

Further, your organization must repay to the Detroit Lions Charltles any portion of the grant that is not
used for the purposes permitted under this letter.

Use rant
Under the laws of the United States, the grant funds may only be expended for charitable and other exempt

purposes within the meaning of sections 170(c)(2l(8) and 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the 'internal Revenue Code?). The grant is to he used solely In support of the charitable
purposes stated above as detailed in your grant proposal and this letter, this letter shall control.

The grant funds may not be used by your organization to carry on propaganda or otherwise attempt to
influence legislation or to engage in political campaign activities. Further, your organization shall not.
directly or ind irectiy, engage in, support or promote violence or terrorist activities.

Your organization con?rms that the activities funded by this grant are under its complete control. Your
organization also confirms that it has and will exercise control over the process of selecting any secondary
grantee or consultant, that the decision made or that will be made on any such selection ls completely
Independentof Detroit Lions Charities and. further. that there does not exist an agreement. written or oral.

under which Detroit Lions Charities has caused or may cause the selection of a secondary grantee or
consultant.

ntandRe rtin Re irem ts

Your organization must maintain ?nancial records and supporting documentation for expenditures and
receipts related to this grant during. and for five years after. the grant period. Upon Detroit Lions
Charlties' request. your organization must also give Detroit Lions Charities reasonable access to its files,
records, and personnel related to the grant during, and for five years after, the grant period.

Upon receipt of your signed agreement, payment will be made on the following date:

- May 15, 2019
Reports must be submitted to Detroit Lions Charities as follows:

- Mid-term report is due January 17. 2020
- Final report is due June 15. 2020

AI report: must follow the template provided by Detroit Hons Charities.

In add tion to reports required above, your organization must notify Detroit Lions Charities of
any change in its qualification as an organization exempt from federal income taxes under sections
501(c)(3) and 509lall1). or (3) of the lntemal Revenue Code.

Public Communications
Detroit Lions Charities may publicize and inciude Information on this grant in its periodic public reports.
Your organization may make announcements of this grant upon return of this signed letter. Detroit Lions

Charities requests that a copy of any public communication be sent to Detroit Lions Charities prior to Its
dissemination.

Acceptance

This letter contains the entire agreement between your organization and Detroit Lions Charities and there
are no conditions or stipulat ons, oral or written, governing the use of grant funds other than those
contained in this ?etter. By countersigning this letter. your organization confirms that there has been no

change in its status as an organization exempt from federal income taxes under sections 501(c)(3) and
509(a)(1). (2) or (3) of the Internal Revenue Code.

By signing and return'ng a copy of this letter. your organization agrees to the grant terms and conditions.
Further, the individual signing this letter on behalf of your organization represents to Detroit Lions Charities
that he or she has the authority to sign this letter on your organization's behalf.

Please sign this letter in the space provided below and return one complete copy of the signed letter to
Detroit Lions Charities. You may return an original signed letter, or a photocopy, facsimile or other
electronic COPY: Which you agree will have the same effect for all purposes as an original.

We look forward to working with you during the grant period.
Sincerely,

Jen
Senior Director, Community Relations and Detroit Lions Charities

Our organization acknowledges that appropriate personnel have read and understand this letter, that its
terms and conditions are acceptable. and that we will comply with those terms and conditions.

Name ofGrantee Organization I 57'" Fairy F0 UN 0N

Signature-QMA 
Printed Name of 5 gner:_ p474 Kd? 
me: an: 01?: UC Dr Ma?r Date: f5, 0265/?

 

   

bl 

n; R11: mum 4822M
l?Iimr ilS-Jt?-i: 2t!
Cm til 

Pl?ltl It I DI mm

May 30, 2019

The Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: DeMar Promotional Marketing Group
Petition #310

Dear Council Members

The DeMar Promotional Marketing Group is requesting permission to hang approximately
34 banners along East Jefferson Ave. between Jos. Campau St. and Saint Aubin St. to
promote Aretha Franklin Amphitheatre Inaugural Summer Music Series Celebration.

The Public Lighting Department has not inspected the requested poles but believes them
to be structurally sound, and is recommending approval for DeMar Promotional Marketing
Group on approved pole locations from June 3 to September 9, 2019.

Respectfully Quw??j
a: 4/ fr fw/

John rymack. Director
PUblic Lighting Department

Enclosure: Petition

cc: Council Members .
File
PLA

 10 ?l mun Sam I 
ltiitntazl 31? ?law Mlle

Purl-.1 ?3 ill

(In or Dt 
Pm: It?llIIKti Dr?vuuxn 

    

May 30, 2019

The Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: DeMar Promotional Marketing Group
Petition #310

Dear Council Members

The DeMar Promotional Marketing Group is requesting permission to hang approximately
34 banners along East Jefferson Ave. between Jos. Campau St. and Saint Aubin St. to
promote Aretha Franklin Amphitheatre Inaugural Summer Music Series Celebration.

The Public Lighting Department has not inspected the requested poles but believes them
to be structurally sound, and is recommending approval for DeMar Promotional Marketing
Group on approved pole locations from June 3 to September 9, 2019.

Respectfully Sawing.)

x- 

John rymack. Director
Public Lighting Department

(i

  

Enclosure: Petition

cc: Council Members
File
PLA

MIHIM


AMPHITHEATRE



 

 

I 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 6H
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(3 l3) 224-390I - 'l'TY27ll

(313) 224-1464



  

CITY OF DETROIT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
ADMINISTRATION DIVISION

 

May 23rd, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #310 DeMar Promotional Marketing Group, request to install 34 street banners
along East Jefferson Ave. between Jos Campau St. and Saint Aubin St to promote Aretha
Franklin Amphitheatre Inaugural Summer Music Series Celebration.

The Department of Public Works, Traffic Engineering Division received the above referenced
petition. This department has no objections to the placement of banners, provided that the banner
installation is in compliance with the banner policy adopted by your Honorable Body on November
30, 2001, and subject to the following conditions:

1. Thirty-four (34) banners are to be located along East Jefferson Ave. between Jos Campau St.
and Saint Aubin St. as shown in the attached map.

2. The duration of banner installation shall be from May 30, 2019 through September 2019.

3. Banners shall not exceed thirty-two (32) inches in width by ninety-four (94) inches in height and
should be acrylic or vinyl with standard slitting (also called ?Happy Faces?).

4. Banners shall be affixed to allow minimum of (15) feet clearance from walkway surface.
5. Banners shall not include ?ashing lights that may be distracting to motorists.

6. Banners shall not have displayed thereon any legend or symbol which is, or resembles, or which
may be mistaken for a traffic control device, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic.

7. Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited on all banners; including telephone numbers,
mailing addresses, and web site addresses.

8. A sponsoring organization?s logo and/or name may be included at the bottom of the banner in a
space no more than ten (10) inches in height by thirty (30) inches in length, and letter size shall be
limited to four (4) inch maximum and placed at the bottom of the banner.

9. Sponsoring organizations may not include messages pertaining to tobacco and related products,
alcoholic beverages, firearms, adult entertainment or sexually explicit products, or political
campaigns.

10. Sponsoring organizations may not include legends or symbols which may be construed to
advertise, promote the sale of, or publicize any merchandise or commodity, with the exception of
sponsorship as described in the banner policy (see section 9 of the policy).

1 1. Banner placement must be a minimum of 120 feet or every other pole apart, whichever is greater,
including banners that may exist at the time of the installation and is limited to a two thousand
(2000) feet radius area of the event location or within the stated organization?s boundaries.

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL (Cont.)
Petition #310

12. The design, method of installation and location of banners shall not endanger persons using the
highway or unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic.

13. The petitioner SHALL secure an approval from Public Lighting Department to use their utility
poles to hang the banners.

14. The petitioner SHALL secure Right of Way permit from City Engineering Division every time
the banners are changed/replaced.

15. The wording on the banners will be (please see below).

If deemed appropriate by the City of Detroit, The City reserves the right to have the banners removed by
the Petitioner at the Petitioner?s cost prior to expiration date.

Respc Submitted,

I I 


Director
Department of Public Works

Copy: Linda Vinyard, Mayor?s Of?ce
Ashok Patel, Traf?c Engineering Division



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sv?z?m - 4?



cac;
.., g3
2i: 

fightw-Un?w?kf
3* Q9
(55 

. Q)
"ya/31,34 a} 5<
Q53 I *vaw 
?3 
go 7


Ii) - 7h 

 

 

 

 

 

(Ettp of Dart-nit

Ja?if-E M- Winfrey OFFICE OF THE QTY CLERK Caven West
Qty Clerk Deputy City Clerk/Chiefofstaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Thursday, May 30, 2019

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

310 The Right Productions, Inc, request to renew the permitfor approximately 3 4
banners on East Jefferson from Jos Campau to St. Aubin for the period of June
3, 2019 to September 9, 2019

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center a Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

 

Of?ce Use Only: Petition Number:

 

 

 

City of Detroit

Banner Permit Application Form for

Banners in the Public Right?of?Way

NOTE: This application is for the proposed banner(s) for a speci?ed period of time only. After
Expiration of the permit (if granted), or should the banner change in any way, another application will be

required.

Please type or print information clearly:

 

I. APPLICANT INFORMATION

 

 

 

Shahida Mausi

Name of Organization:The Right PrOdUCtionS, Inc.
Mailing Address: 2600 Atwater

City/State/Zip Code: DetFOit. MI 48207

Contact Name:

 

 

 

 

Phone: QB): 5'11?) -- 0:4? ?Mk; Faxzi?) Cm E-Mail: (?t?ca bmml?dr. HE. M'iakgKbE TECIT .Cof?l
Sponsoring Organization (if applicable):

Type of on-pro?t* Business district?

?ommunity I lSpecial Event Holiday

*If registered as a non-pro?t, please indicate your non-pro?t status identi?cation number and attach a copy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the certi?cate. Non-pro?t identi?cation number: 

 

?If applying for a business district banner(s),

please identify the business district:_ 

 

Type of Request-Initial Permillj?ermit Renewal?

*If this request is for permit renewal, please provide the following:

Permit identi?cation number: Permit expiration date: 

Page 1 of 8

 

lI. COMMERCIAL BANNER COMPANY

 

 

 

Denise Coklow

Name of Organization: DeMar Promotional Marketing?Group
Mailing Address: 8910 Brady Street

City/State/Zip Code: Redford: MI 48239

Phone: 541 '8300 Faxct?ii451'gg23 E-Mail: 7D: mscfor? .1:ch on?.

Contact Name:

 

 

 

 

 

 

I II. BANNER INFORMATION

 

 

 

Purpose of banner(s):
Aretha Franklin Amphitheatre Inaugural Summer Music Series Celebration

 

 

 

 

Time period to diSplay banner(s): Installation Date: 9 3 Removal Date: ?Cl

Number of banner(s) to display: 3?11

Streets on which banner(s) are to be displayed:
East Jefferson between Jos Campau and St. Aubin

 

 

 

Are any of the poles located on a Michigan State Trunk Line or Wayne County Road? (See listing of State
Lines and Wayne County Roads attached.) I Yes?

_No
*If yes, please note that the application must be submitted a minimum of 180 days prior to requested

installation date (see Section 3 of the Policy on Banners in the Public Right-of-Way for details).

Describe wording on banner(s) and any graphics:

The banners will display the Aretha Franklin Amphitheatre logo

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 8

The following items MUST BE included in the permit application package in order for it to be considered:
1. Complete banner permit application form

2. Signed and dated indemnity agreement (Attachment A)

3. Signed and dated maintenance and removal agreement (Attachment B)

4. Copy of certi?cate of insurance

5. Sketch. drawing, or actual sample of the banner to be displayed (see example attached)
6. Listing andt'or map of the speci?c locations for the banners

100 non-refundable permit fee

8.

A refundable deposit (amount speci?ed in Section 4 of the Policy on Banners in the Public Right-

of-Way) to be held in escrow presented to the Consumer Affairs Department prior to the issuance
of a banner permit

The undersigned applicant(s) agrees to abide by the provisions set by the City of Detroit to suspend a
banner or banners during the time period requested for this permit.

SbahtdaMausi 

Applicant: Print Name Commercial Banner Representative: Print Name

Sit;

{Applicant Signature


installertremover)

Liza/w 

Commercial Banner Representative: Signature

   

f. .-
1'1 Mile/L 

Date: Date:

Page 3 of 8

Attachment A
AGREEMENT OF INDEMNITY

 

CITY OF DETROIT:

For and in consideration of the granting ol'a permit by the Cit) of Detroit to suspend a banner or banners. the
undersigned does agree to indemnify and hold harmless the City of Detroit. its o?ieers. agents. and employees from
any and all claims arising out the placement of. maintenance of. use of. or removal of banners. including claims

involving banners (or the structure upon which they are hung) failing on people or property.

  

 

 

 

 

Sig: turt- or Authorized Representative (Organization)
ahida Mausi
Name

2600 Atwater

Address
Detroit. MI 48207

City. State. Zip Code I 4,
@3930292 . 5' I 0 

Telephone Number Date

t' Authorized Represenuulve (Banner Company)
Denise Choklow

8310 Brady Steet



Address
MI 43299 

City. State. Zip Code
313-541-8300 5-10 19



Telephone Ntunher Date

Page 4 of 8

Attachment 
MAINTENANCE REMOVAL AGREEMENT

 

It is understood and agreed that duringthejnitial display. and subsequent renewal periods if applicable. the permittee
shall be responsible for inspecting banners and poles. replacing and/or removing banners that are torn. defaced or in
general disrepair, including rigging. Where any street banner is found to an immediate threat of harm to the

public health. welfare or safety. tlte City shall summarily cause its removal.

It is also understood and agreed that banners are to be removed within seventy-two (12) hours of the revocation date of
the permiL Any street banner not removed within that time period shall be remuted by the City without notice to the
permittee.

If the City removes banners because they are in disrepair. present a threat or harm. or because the pennit has expired. it
is understood and agreed that a ponion or all of the refundable deposit will be forfeited by the permittee in order to
cover the City?s expense. If the expense of removal exceeds the amount of deposit it is understood and agreed that the
excess amount shall be collected from the personlentity to which the permit was issued.

It is also understood and agreed that in such cases when the City removes banners there is no guarantee that the banners
can be reclaimed by the permittee.

Shahida Mausi Denise Coklow

Applii.

ConunereialiBauner Representative: Print Name
ti.c.. it ullera'rcmover)

aw 

/(ppucam Signature Commercial Banner Representative: Signature

?Hi?x01

     

Date: Date:

Page 5 of 8

STATE TRUNK LINES AND WAYNE COUNTY ROADS

Banners installed on State trunk lines or Wayne County Roads are subject to additional requirements. Permits for

banners on State trunk lines or Wayne County Roads must comply with State and County guidelines.

(Please see the City of Detroit Policy on Banners in the Public Right-of-Way for details.)

A. Michigan State Trunk Lines in the City of Detroit

Cadillac Square
Clark Street
Clifford Middle
Davison

Edsel Ford
Eight Mile Road
Fisher

Ford Road

Fort Road
Grand River
Gratiot
Greens?eld
Groesbeck
Hoover

effries

John C. Lodge
Michigan Avenue
Randolph (Cadillac Square to Jefferson)
Schaefer

Shore Street
South?eld

Telegraph Road

Van Dyke

W. P. 
Washington Boulevard
Woodward

Wyoming

B. Wayne County Roads in the City of Detroit

Chandler Park Drive
Chandler Park Drive
West Chicago Blvd.
Conant

Davison

Davison

Dix

Dix

Edward Hines Drive
Fenkell

Five Points

Gaines

Green?eld
Green?eld

West Jefferson

Joy Road

Kelly Road

Kelly Road

Lahser Road
Lamphere Road

Limits

Dickerson to Outer Drive

Whittier to Moross

Lamphere to West City Limits

South from Carpenter to Hamtramck West Line
Twelfth to Highland Park West City Limits
Syracuse to Dwyer

Woodmere to West City Limits

Rouge River Bridge to Oakwood Blvd.
West City Limits to South City Limits and Warren
200 East of Wyoming to West City Limits
Eight Mile Road to Puritan

Southfield East Service Drive to 390 East
Tireman to James Couzens Drive

Paul to Tireman

Brennan to Rouge River

Green?eld to West City Limits

Morang to Kingsville

Kingsville to Eight Mile

Chalfonte to Eight Mile Road

Outer Drive South to RR. to Outer Drive

Page 6 of 8

Mack

McNichols
McNichols
McNichols

Miller Road
Moross Road
Mound

Outer Drive

Outer Drive

Outer Drive

Outer Drive

Outer Drive

Outer Drive
Schaefer Highway
Schaefer Highway
Schoolcraft

Seven Mile Road East
Seven Mile Road East
Swift

Tireman

Warren

Warren

Warren

Wyoming
Wyoming

B. Wayne County Roads in the City of Detroit (continued)

Waybum to North City Limits (650? of Moross)
Wyoming to Five Points

Alley West of Oakland to G.T.W.R.R.
G.T.W.R.R. to Dequindre

Dearbom Road to Fort Street
Redmond to Mack

Caniff to Eight Mile

Dunfries to Bassett

Warren to Livemois

Dequindre to McNichols

Conner to Chandler Park

Alter to Whittier

Chandler Park to Mack

Oakwood Boulevard to Dunfries
Dunfries to Bassett

Grand River to Patton

Gratiot to Redmond

Woodward to Five Points

West Line of Hull to East Line of Swift
200? East of Miller Road (Meyers) to Green?eld
D.T.R.R to 600? East

Green?eld to Heyden

Heyden to West City Limits

130? South of Michigan to Michigan
Ford Road to D.T.R.R.

Page 7 of 8

A. Hanging Banner from Utility Poles

Nothing may be attached to a utility or light pole without the permission of the City. The City Council can grant
permission to attach banner to Lighting Department poles. To get permission to hand banners you must petition the
City Council. The petition should identify where you want to hang the banner(s), what the banner(s) will say and how
long the banners will hang.

No banner will be allowed to block the view of traf?c signals or signs. The Public Lighting Department will inspect the
poles before advising the City Council about allowing any banners to be attached. The permission given by the City
Council is good for up to six months. If you want to hang banners for more than six months, you should petition the
City Council for an extension.

The Petitioner is responsible for purchasing, installing and removing the banners and the hardware needed to hang
them.

The Public Lighting Department will supply a copy of its Banner Speci?cations upon request.

Page 8 of 8





WNW

 

MIHIIJI


AMPHITHEATRE


 

 I In
ACORD


CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE

 

 

DATE 
05/07/201 9

 

THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CER11FICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW. THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.

 

IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed.
If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on
this certificate does not confer rights to the certificate holder' In lieu 01 such endorsement(s).

 

Joseph McKeone

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRODUCER
J.P. McKeone Insurance Agency Inc
JP McKeone Insurance Agency. Inc. .1330 ?To ?.1734) 662 8100 .IAIC. MI: (734) 662 8101
PO. Box 333 imckeone?lmckeenecom
Ann Arbor. MI 481060333 AFFORDING COVERAGE 
.NSURER A. NAUTILUS INSURANCE COMPANY 92828
INSURED BRADLEY SIGN WORKS INSURER B:
12321 STARK ROAD 
LIVONIA, MI 43150 C-
INSURER D: 
INSURER 
INSURER F:
COVERAGES CERTIFICATE NUMBER: REVISION NUMBER:

 

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQUIREMENT. TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY PERTAIN. THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS,
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.

 

 

 

 



POL ICY EFF

POLICY EXP 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INSR
LTR I TYPE OF INSURANCE WVLL POLICY NUMBER I LIMITS
A 3! COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY NN835408 07/18/2018 07/18/2019 EACH OCCURRENCE 1.000.000

CLAIMS-MADE OCCUR PREMISES IE3 occurrcIICBI 100-000
MED EXP (Any one DersenI 5.000
PERSONAL II ADV INJURY 1.000.000
GEN AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER: I GENERAL AGGREGATE 1.000.000
Q1 POLICY 1:1 LOC PRODUCTS AGG 1,000,000
I OFHER. 
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY [En madam. 
ANY AUTO BODILY INJURY (Per person) 
OWNED SCHEDULED .
AUTOS ONLY AUTOS 
HIRED NON-OWNED PROPERTY DAMAGE 5
AUTOS ONLY AUTOS ONLY .I'Por accli?ienljl 

UMBRELLA LIAB OCCUR EACH OCCURRENCE 
I EXCESS CLAIMS-MADE AGGREGATE 
DED I 1 RETENTION 
WORKERS COMPENSATION PER 0TH-
AND LIABILITY Y, STATUTE I EH
ANY EL. EACH ACCIDENT 
El I A
(Mandatory In NH) E.L. DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE 3
II es. describe under 
SCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT 3

I
I 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS LOCATIONS I VEHICLES (ACORD 101. Additional Remarks Schedule. may be attached It more space Is required)
CERTIFICATE HOLDER IS ADDITIONAL INSURED AND COVERAGE EXTENDS TO PROJECT FOR: Aretha Franklin Amphitheatre.

 

CERTIFICATE HOLDER

CANCELLATION

 

DeMar Promotional Marketing Group
8910 Brady
Redford, MI 48239

SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE EXPIRATION DATE THEREOF. NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.

 

AUTHORIZED 

 

C/(eom

 

ACORD 25 (2016/03)

1988-2015 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.

The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE. SUITE 60]

CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS PHONE: (3I3) 224-3949 - I
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION FAX: (313) 224-3471



 

May 20, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 574 Joan McGowan request to vacate Pierson Avenue abutting
property located at 20745 Glendale.

Petition No. 574 Joan McGowan request to vacate and convert to easement Pierson Avenue, 50
feet wide, from Glendale Avenue, 50 feet wide, South 199 feet to where Pierson Avenue ends.

The petition was referred to the City Engineering Division DPW for investigation (utility review)
and report. This is our report.

The request was approved by the Solid Waste Division DPW, and Traf?c Engineering Division
DPW, and City Engineering - DPW.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) has no objection to the conversion to easement.
The speci?c DWSD provisions for easements are included in the resolution.

The Detroit Fire Department (DFD) approves provided access is maintained to any buildings and
?re department connections. A provision for DFD access is a part of the resolution.

All Other involved City Departments, and privately owned utility companies have reported no
objections to the conversion of the public right-of-way (Pierson Avenue) into a private easement
for public utilities. Provisions protecting utility installations are part of the attached resolution.

I am recommending adoption of the attached resolution.


Respectfully submitted,


. 
.. (?Jug/J 

Richard Doherty, Engineer
City Engineering Division DPW


Cc: Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW
Mayor?s Of?ce City Council Liaison

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

RESOLVED, that all of Pierson Avenue, 50 feet wide, from Glendale Avenue, 50 feet wide, South
199 feet to where Pierson Avenue ends; Further described as land in the City of Detroit, Wayne
County, Michigan being:

All that part of Pierson Avenue, 50 feet wide, lying easterly of and adjoining the easterly
line of Lots 43 through 48, both inclusive, also lying westerly of and adjoining the westerly line
of Lots 49 through 54, both inclusive ?Oakmoor Little Farms, a subdivision of part of the S.W. 
of Section 27, T.IS, R.10 E. City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan? as recorded in Liber 63,
Page 82 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Be and the same is hereby vacated as a public right-of-way and converted into a private easement
for public utilities of the full width of the right-of?way, which easement shall be subject to the
following covenants and agreements, uses, reservations and regulations, which shall be observed
by the owners of the lots abutting on said right-of?way and by their heirs, executors, administrators
and assigns, forever to wit:

First, said owners hereby grant to and for the use of the public an easement or right?of?way over
said vacated public street herein above described for the purposes of maintaining, installing,
repairing, removing, or replacing public utilities such as water mains, sewers, gas lines or mains,
telephone, electric light conduits or poles or things usually placed or installed in a public right-of-
way in the City of Detroit, with the right to ingress and egress at any time to and over said easement
for the purpose above set forth,

Second, said utility easement or right-of-way in and over said vacated street herein above described
shall be forever accessible to the maintenance and inspection forces of the utility companies, or
those speci?cally authorized by them, for the purpose of inspecting, installing, maintaining,
repairing, removing, or replacing any sewer, conduit, water main, gas line or main, telephone or
light pole or any utility facility placed or installed in the utility easement or right-of-way. The
utility companies shall have the right to cross or use the driveways and yards of the adjoining
properties for ingress and egress at any time to and over said utility easement with any necessary
equipment to perform the above mentioned task, with the understanding that the utility companies
shall use due care in such crossing or use, and that any property damaged by the utility companies,
other than that speci?cally prohibited by this resolution, shall be restored to a satisfactory
condition,

Third, said owners for their heirs and assigns ?arther agree that no buildings or structures of any
nature whatsoever including, but not limited to, concrete slabs or driveways, retaining or partition
walls (except necessary line fences or gates), shall be built or placed upon said easement, nor
change of surface grade made, without prior approval of the City Engineering Division DPW,

Fourth, that if the owners of any lots abutting on said vacated street shall request the removal
and/or relocation of any existing poles or other utilities in said easement; such owners shall pay all
costs incidental to such removal and/or relocation, unless such charges are waived by the utility
owners,

Fifth, that if any utility located in said property shall break or be damaged as a result of any action
on the part of said owners or assigns (by way of illustration but not limitation) such as storage of
excessive weights of materials or construction not in accordance with Section 3, mentioned above,
then in such event said owners or assigns shall be liable for all costs incidental to the repair of such
broken or damaged utility; and

Provided, that the petitioner maintain Fire Department vehicle access to all buildings, structures,
?re hydrants, and ?re department connections, and further

Provided, that an easement, the full width of the existing right-of-way, is reserved for the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department for the purpose of installing, maintaining, repairing, removing,
or replacing any sewers, water mains, ?re hydrants and appurtenances, with the right of ingress
and egress at any time to, and over said easement for the purpose above set forth; and be it further

Provided, that free and easy access to the sewers, water mains, ?re hydrants and appurtenances
within the easement is required for Detroit Water and Sewerage Department equipment, including
the use of backhoes, bull dozers, cranes or pipe trucks, and other heavy construction equipment,
as necessary for the alteration or repair of the sewer or water main facilities; and be it further

Provided, that the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department retains the right to install suitable
permanent main location guide post over its water mains at reasonable intervals and at points
de?ection; and be it further

Provided, that said owners of the adjoining property, for themselves, their heirs and assigns, agree
that no building or structure of any nature whatsoever, including porches, patios, balconies, etc.,
shall be built upon or over said easement, or that no grade changes or storage of materials shall be
made within said easement without prior written approval and agreement with the Detroit Water
and Sewerage Department; and be it further

Provided, that if any time in the future, the owners of any lots abutting on said vacated street shall
request the removal and/ or relocation of the aforementioned utilities in said easement, such owners
shall pay all costs incident to such removal and/or relocation. It is further provided that if sewers,
water mains, and/or appurtenances in said easement shall break or be damaged as a result of any
action on the part of the owner, or assigns, then in such event, the owner or assigns shall be liable
for all costs incident to the repair of such broken or damaged sewers and water mains, and shall
also be liable for all claims for damages resulting from his action; and be it further

Provided, that if it becomes necessary to remove the paved street return at the entrance (into
Glendale Avenue) such removal and construction of new curb and sidewalk shall be done under
city permit and inspection according to City Engineering Division DPW speci?cations with all
costs borne by the abutting owner(s), their heir or assigns; and further,

Provided, That the City Clerk shall within 30 days record a certi?ed copy of this resolution with
the Wayne County Register of Deeds.

 

PETITION NO. 574

IOAN MCGOWAN

20745 GLENDALE AVE.
DETROIT MICHIGAN 48223
PHONE NO. 248 252?6126

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GLENDALE AVE.
E: 10100 18 140.9543 5411mm 7% 46 403 3._4_33 140.9648 49119.4592162119 DETROIT GASKET . 418 1
3 $1 5
3
0Q 420 
422 
125.03 
33 FULLERTON AVE.
66 FT. WD.

- CONVERSION TO EASEMENT
I, (FOR OFFICE USE ONLY) CARTO 111 
CONVERSION To EASEMENT CITY OF DETROIT
A ?gm?mm? cm Am ?m PIERSON AVE 50 CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
I: AWN n? IN THE AREA BOUND BY SURVEY BUREAU
WLW KSM GLENDALE, STOUT, FULLERTON AVE, BURT RD. JOB NO- 01-01
11-09-18 AND CHESAPEAKE 8: OHIO R.R. ?mm 574

 

 

 

(imp 0f Eetrait

JEHICB M- W'in?frey OFFICE 0? THE CITY CLERK Cavern West
City Cleric DeputyCity Clerk/Chief of Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, November 05, 2018

o: he Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

574 Joan McGowan, request to vacate the public alley abutting property located at
20745 Glendale.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 Fax {313) 224-1466

 

 

 

 

MA. I FL I Mitt- 

I PEEONS

ZONING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- L- we 
r; 
L0 ?2 GRASS
'ENIE-IIE ZONING M-420NING mummy
.AmSTREET APPROACHES

5&er 1-5TORY 
MASONRY BLDG. -
TOWING SERVICE
STORAGE YARD
6.700 SQ FT.
1-, 20745 I
I. I
In
6W5
- 59.46 
n+4 ZONING
ESALE- 1" 200" NORTH

I
-114.

IE- 
'r - HTE 



DETROIT ARCHITECT

I:
?(am 

IDIIWMWH ?M?nh?hmm

Towing Services Storage Yard. 20745 Glendale Avenue
Owner: Ju-n MoGowIn

Connemduln Mann. 

5ITE PLAN. SITE DATA. PIANJLEVATION PHOTOGRAPHS

Std: YAIES 61512016 SMI ofl

2018-11-05 574

574 Petition of Joan McGowan, request to
vacate the public alley abutting
property located at 20745 Glendale.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW -
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

