W9

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226?3437

PHONE 313-224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 5

April 2, 2019

 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Advanced Surgery Center, LLC City of Detroit
Case No: 17-014875-NF
File No: 

We have reviewed the above-captioned lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which are set forth in
a con?dential memorandum that is being separately hand?delivered to each member of Your
Honorable Body. From this review, it is our considered opinion that a settlement in the amount of
Twelve Thousand Dollars and NOlCents is in the best interest of the City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request authorization to settle this matter in the amount of Twelve Thousand
Dollars and NO/Cents and that Your Honorable Body direct the Finance Director to
issue a draft in that amount payable to Advanced Surgery Center, LLC and their attorney, Koussan
Hamood, PLC, to be delivered upon receipt of properly executed Releases and Stipulation and
Order of Dismissal entered in Lawsuit No. 17-014875-NF, approved by the Law Department.

Respectfully submitted,

 

i arah V. Domin
Assistant Corporation Counsel

APPROVED: ZPR -012 2019

LAWRENCE GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

aim/all A 

?7l?lAL A. 
Supervising Assistant Cblporatiori Counsel

Attachments

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and is hereby authorized in the amount
of Twelve Thousand Dollars and NO/Cents and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized and directed to draw
a warrant upon the proper account in favor of Advanced Surgery Center, LLC and their attorney,
Koussan Hamood, PLC, in the amount of Twelve Thousand Dollars and N0/Cents 
in full payment for any and all claims which Advanced Surgery Center, LLC may have against the
City of Detroit and any other City of Detroit employees by reason of treatment provided to
Matthew Tutt for injuries sustained in a DDOT bus crash on or about December 28, 2016, and
that said amount be paid upon receipt of properly executed Releases, Stipulation and Order of
Dismissal entered in Lawsuit and, where it is deemed necessary or desirable
by the Law Department, a properly executed Medicare Reporting and Indemni?cation Af?davit,

approved by the Law Department.

APPROVED:

LAWRENCE GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

[ml/52L, l/L?zK/zx)

[(11054 AL A RH I Emerald

Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

740

 

Human Resources Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3710
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 316 Fax 313-224-1750
Detroit. Michigan 48226 detroitmigov
DETROIT
June 5, 2019
HOnorable City Council

Subject: Request to Amend the Of?cial Compensation Schedule

Recommendation is submitted to amend the 2018 2019 Of?cial Compensation Schedule to
include the following pay ranges, subject to City Council approval:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class
Code Classi?cation Salary Range
22-20-40 Data Analyst $55,667 - $77,933
22-20?50 Data Quality Management Specialist $44,750 - $62,650
Request:

The above recommendations are at the request of Angelique Rodriguez?Edge from the Health
Department.

Rationale:
The above request and recommendations are based on the ability to attract and retain essential personnel to
staff the Ryan White Program of the Health Department.

The SEMHA (Southeast Michigan Health Association) federal contract is due to end June 30, 2019. It has
been determined that it is in the City?s best interest that the Ryan White Program be moved in-
house. This transition is necessary to ensure that the program is more cost effective, operates more
ef?ciently, and adheres to regulatory guidelines.

To determine the appropriate salary ranges for the classi?cations, a market study was conducted using data
from external survey sources. The proposed salaries are essential for recruitment and retention purposes and
are based on the City of Detroit?s ability to ?md the increase. The proposed salary recommendations are
subject to City Council approval.

Respectfully submitted,

- RH 
(tuft; .v?fp

Denise Starr
Human Resources Director

DS/bvt

Attachments

cc: Budget Department
Mayor?s Of?ce

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

RESOLVED, That the 2018 - 2019 Of?cial Compensation Schedule is hereby
amended to re?ect the following pay ranges, effective upon Council?s approval.

 

 

 

 

 

Class

Code Classification Salary Range
22-20?40 Data Analyst $55,667 - $77,933
22-20-50 Data Quality Management Specialist $44,750 - $62,650

 

 

 

RESOLVED, That the Finance Director is hereby authorized to honor payrolls and
vouchers in accordance with this resolution, the above communication and standard
City of Detroit practices.

City of Detroit
Classi?cation/Compensation Division

Classification/Compensation Notification Form

 

Requesting Department: Health

Division: Programs

 

 

 

 

Requester Name: Angelique Rodriguez-Edge, Health Department

 

 

Date of Receipt: 52072019

 

 

Work Order Number #2019-127



 

 

Action Taken

 

Speci?cation Maintained

Speci?cation Updated

New Speci?cation

XI Other: New Cizlssil'iualinns and Sglan' Adiustment

El Position Maintained
El Position Reallocated
El Positions Allocated
Position Deletion

 

 

Explanation: This is to advise you that the Human Resources Department concurred in the following recommendations:

1. The titles and codes of the following new classi?cations be adopted:
0 Data Analyst (22-20-40)
0 Data Quality Management Specialist (22?20-50)

2. The 2018 - 2019 Of?cial Compensation Schedule be amended to include the following pay ranges:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class

Code Classification Salary Range
22-20?40 Data Analyst $55,667 $77,933
22-20?50 Data Quality Management Specialist $44,750 - $62,650

 

 

 

SUBJECT TO CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL

 

Brenda VanTull l?fli?tc?d?k 

Classi?cation/ Compensation Analyst:

 

Date: 4/57] 2

 

Chief Classi?cation/Compensation
Of?cer:

Nicole Smith 

Date:



 

 

Human Resources Director: Denise Starr

 

 

Date 

 

CC: Labor Relations
Payroll Audit
Budget

Ulti Updates

 

33"

Christopher Gulock, AICP

Bpflicdehitaker, Esq. ?tit? of Btr? it Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager CITY OUNCIL Kimani Jeffrey
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. Anne Marie Langan
Senior City Planner LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION Jamie Murphy
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Mun1c1pal Center Carolyn Nelson
Deputy Director Detr01t, Michlgan 48226,, Kim Newby

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Analine Powers, 

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

Jennifer Reinhardt

Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood

  
  

George Etheridge 
Deborah Goldstein Wilson, Ashley
TO: The Honorable Detroit Ci Co cil
FROM: David Whitaker, Directo r"
Legislative Policy Divi aff
RE: Impact of Plan of Adjustment and Emergency Manager Orders on 2012
Charter
DATE: June 7, 2019

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) reviewed the orders issued by the Emergency Manager
during his 2013-2014 tenure to analyze their continuing impact on Detroit City government
operations and their potential relevance to the Charter revision process. The following report
provides background information, as well as discussion of the orders, their ongoing legal
signi?cance, and potential revision of the orders. This report supplements November 27,
2018 memorandum entitled, Charter Revision: Overview and Issues.

BACKGROUND

On March 28, 2013, Governor Rick Snyder?s appointment of Kevyn Orr as Emergency Manager
(EM) of the City of Detroit took effect, pursuant to Michigan Public Act 436 of 2012, the Local
Financial Stability and Choice Act, MCL 141.1541, et seq. (the Act). By the summer of 2013,
under Mr. Orr?s leadership, the City was in Chapter 9 (municipal) bankruptcy proceedings,
which ultimately resulted in the Court?s approval of the Plan for the Adjustment of Debts of the
City of Detroit (POA), effective December 10, 2014.

During Mr. Orr?s tenure, he issued forty?four (44) ?Emergency Manager Orders? to effectuate
his plan ?to address [the City?s] ?nancial emergency, restore ?nancial stability, and ensure the

continuity of services essential to the public health, safety and welfare?.1 Several of the EM
Orders were issued in response to restructuring mandated by the Bankruptcy Court?s order the
others were merely administrative in nature.

Section 21 of the Financial Stability Act, MCL speci?cally addresses the potential
duration of the Orders as follows:

After the completion of the emergency manager's term and the termination of
receivership, the governing body of the local government shall not amend the 2-
year budget adopted under subsection (1) without the approval of the state
treasurer, and shall not revise any order or ordinance implemented by the
emergency manager during his or her term prior to 1 year after the
termination of receivership. (Emphasis added.)

On its face, therefore, the statute states that one year after the termination of the 
appointment, the terms of his orders can be changed (or ?revised?). It should be emphasized that
this power belongs exclusively to City Council.2 Paragraph 30 of EM Order No. 44 (the ?nal
order) spells out the process for revision of the orders as, ?by resolution of the Council, approved
by the Mayor and rati?ed by the Commission pursuant to Section 7(n) or 7(0) of PA 181.? The
?Commission? refers to the Financial Review Commission (FRC), although the City is no longer
actively subject to FRC review. The tenure was terminated on the effective date of the
Plan of Adjustment and the City?s emergence from bankruptcy, December 10, 2014. Therefore
the Orders were eligible for modificaton by City Council as of December 11, 2015.
Understandably, the potential for revision or revocation cannot be exercised where to do so
would undermine the execution of the bankruptcy Plan of Adjustment.

Finally, if no action is taken, the EM Orders continue in effect indefinitely. Some of the Orders
alter the operations of City departments as currently dictated by the Charter, and therefore should
be considered when revising the 2012 Charter.

THE 44 EMERGENCY ORDERS AND THEIR STATUS

Following a meeting of the Detroit City Council on April 5, 2016, at which City Council
assessed the status of the forty-four orders issued by Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, the
Legislative Policy Division (LPD) was asked to provide a summary of the status of the orders
and any proposed action.

 

See Emergency Manager Order No. 1.

2 See, Detroit City Council Mayor of Detroit, 283 Mich App 442 (2009), interpreting very similar
language in the Regional Convention Facility Authority Act, and holding that that Act ?did not authorize
a mayoral veto of the council?s resolution, disapproving the transfer of the city convention center to a
regional convention facility authority.? The notion of the exclusivity of City Council?s authority to revise
the EM orders would logically extend to preclude the newly impaneled Charter Revision Commission
from revising the orders despite its authority to draft revisions to the Charter.

2

The list below, indicates the number, date of issuance, and title of each order, and brie?y
summarizes the conclusions reached as to each order. Subsequent action by Council to revise the
orders is also noted.

10.

11.

Restoration of Salary and Bene?ts of Mayor and City Council, March 25, 2013 
This order was speci?cally rescinded by EM Order No. 42.

Approval of Financial Contribution by Corporate Donors of Ambulances and Police
Cruisers, April 1, 2013 Gift received no further action required.

Authorization for the Detroit Mayor and City Council to Conduct the Day-to?Day
Business of the City, April 11, 2013 This order was speci?cally rescinded by EM
Order No. 42.

Approval of the Contract for Professional Legal Services Between the City of
Detroit and Jones Day, April 23, 2013 The Law Department indicated that the City no
longer has a professional relationship with the Jones Day Law Firm.

Restrictions on Transfer of Real Property Owned by the City of Detroit, April 25,
2013 ?The requirement that the EM must approve such transactions was rescinded by
EM Order No. 42, paragraph I 1, except for Plan of Adjustment transactions.

Approval of the Initial Funding Agreement for the Public Lighting Authority, May
2, 2013 Fiscal implications preclude revision (pursuant to the Plan ofAdjustmentQ in
the absence of alternative funding sources for the PLA. EM Orders 6 and 14
must be considered when revising Article 7, Chapter 9 of the 2012 Charter Public
Lighting.

Coordination of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations, May 20, 2013 
This order was specifically rescinded by EM Order No. 42, paragraph 12.

Joint Investigation by the Inspector General and Auditor General Into Possible
Waste, Abuse, Fraud, and Corruption Associated with the City?s Employee Bene?t
Programs, June 20, 2013 - This order was speci?cally rescinded by EM Order No. 42,

paragraph 1 3.

Order Modifying Orders Nos. 1 and 3, June 27, 2013 There is no further action to be
taken with respect to the Mayor?s and City Council?s salaries, there is nothing to be
undone.

Order Suspending the Charter Requirement to Fill Vacancies on the Detroit City
Council, July 8, 2013 This order was specifically rescinded by EM Order No. 42.

Order Appointing James Craig Chief of Police of the City of Detroit Police
Department, July 10, 2013 - No further action is required with respect to the

3

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

appointment of Chief Craig; Additionally, on September 29, 2015, City Council
unanimously passed a resolution fully restoring the Charter mandated powers of the
Detroit Board of Police Commissioners, which include the responsibility to conduct a
professional search for candidates for the position of Chief (Charter Section 7-805).

Order Adopting Fiscal Year 2014 Budget as Previously Approved by the Detroit
City Council and as Amended by the Emergency Manager, July 10, 2013 This
order adopted the FY 2014 budget; no further action is required.

Filing of a Petition Under Chapter 9 of Title 11 of the United States Code, July 18,
2013 No action is required he City ?s Chapter 9 bankruptcy petition was filed in July
2013 and the Plan of Adjustment was con?rmed by the Court, ejfective December 10,
2014.

Approval of Trust Agreement Between and Among the City of Detroit, the Public
Lighting Authority, and the Trustee, August 1, 2013 This order established a trust
agreement as a mechanism for funding the PLA. Fiscal implications preclude revision of
this order (under the Plan of Adjustment) in the absence of alternative funding sources.

Order Suspending Certain City Wrecking Requirements to Address Blight, August
29, 2013 The provisions of this Order have been revised.

Order Directing Certain City Employees to Provide Information to the Emergency
Manager, September 25, 2013 This order sought financial information regarding the
City?s retirement system and is no longer relevant; no action required.

Approval of Postpetition Financing, October 11, 2013 No action is required as this
?nancing was required by the Plan of Adjustment.

Approval of Certain Agreements Related to the Public Lighting Authority, October
23, 2013 The agreements approved by this order provide funding for the PLA. Fiscal
implications preclude revision (under the Plan of Adjustment) in the absence of
alternative funding sources. EM Orders 6 and 14 must be considered when
revising Article 7, Chapter 9 of the 2012 Charter Public Lighting (PLD), the
existence of the newly formed Authority and the resulting diminished role of PLD.

Order Eliminating Budget-Required Furloughs Affecting Certain Non-Union City
Employees, November 13, 2013 This order terminated furlough days for certain
employees; no further action is required.

Order Restoring the Salary and Bene?ts of the Mayor and Adopting the Agreement
Between the Emergency Manager and Mayor Duggan Concerning Delegations of
Authority and Transition Protocols, December 30, 2013 This order was specifically
rescinded by EM Order No. 42.

21. Order Approving Pension Freeze for City Employees, December 30, 2013 Orders
N0. 21 and 23 were interim actions taken while the new pension plans were in the
process of being ?nalized and implemented. Subject to the terms of the Plan of
Adjustment, there is no action to be taken.

22. Order Ratifying and Approving Resolution of the Board of Water Commissioners
Authorizing Publication of Notice of Intent to Issue Sewage Disposal System
Revenue Bonds, January 30, 2014 The notice of intent referenced in this order
triggers a 45 day referendum period during which time citizens may petition to oppose
the issuance of the bonds. There is no further action required.

23. Order Modifying Order No. 21, February 3, 2014 Orders No. 21 and 23 were
interim actions taken while the new pension plans were in the process of being finalized
and implemented. Subject to the terms of the Plan of Adjustment, there is no action to be
taken.

24. Order to Amend Chapter 55 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, April 3, 2014 The
increased parking violations resulting from this amendment of the Code have signi?cant
fiscal implications and are required under the Plan of Aalj'ustment.3

25. Order to Amend Chapter 54 of the 1964 Detroit City Code and Chapter 47 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, June 16, 2014 This order e?ectuates (after publication) a
series of ordinances revising the City?s pension plans. Fiscal implications preclude
revision of the pension plans (pursuant to the Plan of Adjustment) in the absence of
alternative funding sources for pensions.

26. Order to Amend Chapter 47 of the 1964 Detroit City Code, June 16, 2014 - This
order e?ectuates (after publication) a series of ordinances revising the City?s pension
plans. Fiscal implications preclude revision of the pension plans (pursuant to the Plan of
Adjustment) in the absence of alternative funding sources for pensions.

27. Order Establishing Grants Management Department, June 27, 2014 No action is
required. City Council could consider the merits of recommending to the
Charter Revision Commission the inclusion of the Grants Management Department in a
revised Charter.

28. Order Implementing Wage Increases for Certain Non-Union City Employees, June
30, 2014 This order e?ectuated a one-time 5 percent wage increase. No action is
required.

 

3 Allegations that the Order was not effectuated in a procedurally correct manner resulted in a now dismissed legal
challenge and a retroactive correction by the City. A revision of the City Code to offer a parking ?ne discount to
City residents for early payment is pending before the Council as of the date of this writing.

5

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

Order to Adopt and Provide for Implementation of the Combined Plan for the
Police and Fire Retirement System of the City of Detroit, Michigan, June 30, 2014 
No action required; Fiscal implications preclude revision of the pension plans (under the
Plan of Adjustment) in the absence of alternative funding sources.

Order to Adopt and Provide for Implementation of the Combined Plan for the
General Retirement System of the City of Detroit, Michigan, June 30, 2014 No
action required; Fiscal implications preclude revision of the pension plans (under the
Plan of Adjustment) in the absence of alternative funding sources.

Order Supplementing Order No. 20, July 28, 2014 This order was specifically
rescinded by EM Order No. 42.

Order Directing the Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Management to
Report to the Mayor, August 19, 2014 DHS is now part of the Mayor ?s Office, as
acknowledged in the Executive Organization Plan it was transferred from the
Detroit Police Department (DPD). Placement of Homeland Security in the Mayor?s o?ice
allows for greater ?exibility and ?uidity than would be the case if this function was
defined by the Charter. Alternatively, City Council could advocate to the Charter
Revision Commission for specific DHS placement.

Order Suspending Certain City Demolition Requirements to Address Blight, August
21, 2014 This order addresses the standards for fill procedures in the demolition
process as included in the City Code.

Order Approving the Articles of Incorporation of Great Lakes Water Authority and
Related Transactions, September 9, 2014 The GLWA has been established; no
further action is required with respect to the EM Order. The existence of
GLWA directly impacts the operation of the Department of Water and Sewerage as it
exists per the 2012 Charter. LPD has prepared, and can provide, detailed reporting with
respect to ongoing con?icts between existing Charter language and recent
practices.

Order to Amend Chapter 18 of the 1964 Detroit City Code, September 16, 2014 
This order with respect to approval of grant applications was repealed by EM Order No.
3 7.

Order to Repeal Chapter 14, Article VI of the 1964 Detroit City Code, September
22, 2014 This order repeals the City Code provisions establishing Citizens? District
Councils. LPD drafted a proposed ordinance reinstating Citizens? District Councils,
extinguished pursuant to this order; however, no action was taken to do so.

Order Modifying, Amending, Replacing, Supplementing, and Otherwise Revising
Emergency Manager Order No. 35, September 25, 2014 Revises EM Order No. 35.

38action necessary. Alters the means by which a grant application is submitted and
approved. See #27 above.

Order Modifying Planning and Development Department and Establishing Housing
and Revitalization Department, September 25, 2014 ?City Council subsequently
passed a resolution requiring confirmation of the appointment of the HRD Director. The
order reorganized such that "all ?nance, accounting, and grant management
positions were transferred to the OCFO paragraph 8).

Order to Create the Department of Information and Technology, September 25,
2014 The order creates the department as part of the City?s restructuring. No action
required; Fiscal implications preclude revision (under the Plan of Adjustment) in the
absence of alternative funding sources.

Order Restructuring the Human Resources Department, September 25, 2015 This
order provides for complete restructuring of the Human Resources Department,
delegating significant authority to the HR Director to create positions, determine
salaries, and review all existing civil service rules. City Council initially sought more
information regarding the impact of restructuring on the civil service system and the
policy direction of the department?s restructuring. Similar restructuring authority was
delegated to both the CF 0 and the Director of 

Order Establishing Centralized Financial Management and Organizational
Structure, September 25, 2014 The appointment of a Chief Financial O?icer is
required by Public Act 18] of 2014. This order creates the Of?ce of the Chief Financial
O?icer with control over ?the City ?s activities relating to budgets, financial plans,
financial management, grants management, financial reporting, financial analysis, and
compliance with the budget and financial plan of the City.? paragraph 3.) Fiscal
implications preclude revision under the Plan of Adjustment.

Order Addressing Issues Relating to the Conclusion of the Emergency Manager?s
Tenure and Transition of City Operations to the Mayor and City Council,
September 25, 2014 - Fiscal implications preclude repeal of orders a?ecting
implementation of the Plan of Adjustment, however City Council repealed/revised aspects
of paragraph 6 impacting the City Charter, including restoring the Law Department to its
Charter mandated independent status. Council previously restored the Detroit Police
Commission ?s authority in full, addressed in paragraph 8 of EM Order No. 42.

Order to Adopt the Amended and Restated Combined Plan for the General
Retirement System of the City of Detroit, Michigan, and Amended and Restated
Combined Plan for the Police and Fire Retirement System of the City of Detroit,
Michigan, October 19, 2014 - Fiscal implications preclude revision (pursuant to the
Plan ofAdjustment) in the absence of alternative funding sources for pensions. Copies of
the pension plan ordinances must be made available in the City Clerk?s office.

44. Final Emergency Manager Order, December 8, 2014 This order addresses ?nal
bankruptcy related matters, as well as potential liability issues pertaining to the
performance of the EM.

EM ORDERS REVISED TO DATE

On September 25, 2014, in anticipation of the end of his tenure, EM Kevyn Orr issued Order No.
42, Order Addressing Issues Relating to the Conclusion of the Emergency Manager?s Tenure
and Transition of City Operations to the Mayor and City Council, providing that ?certain
provisions of previous EM Orders shall be modi?ed, revoked or supplemented.? The Order left
Mr. Orr with broad authority to take any necessary action to manage the bankruptcy and
implement the FDA, until the conclusion of his tenure in? December 2014 (E, paragraph 3).

Paragraph 6 of the Order provided the Mayor with broad restructuring powers for the executive
branch. Paragraph 7 speci?cally permits the Mayor to grant department heads ?the authority to
make hiring, retention, promotion, demotion, reassignment and any other related personnel
decisions affecting their departments?, ?notwithstanding any City or human resources rule,
regulation, policy, agreement, ordinance or practice to the contrary?. Paragraph 8 restored

limited authority to the Board of Police Commissioners.

On September 29, 2015, City Council unanimously passed a resolution fully restoring the
Charter mandated powers of the Board of Police Commissioners (BOPC), with an effective date
of December 11, 2015.

On May 17, 2016, City Council unanimously passed a resolution amending EM Order No. 41,
which established a ?centralized ?nancial management organizational structure? (OCFO)
pursuant to Public Act 181 of 2014 and granted sweeping powers to the City?s Chief Financial
Of?cer (CFO). The resolution fully restored Council?s contract approval authority as well as its
authority to approve the write-off of accounts receivable.

On May 17, 2016, the City Council unanimously passed a resolution amending EM Order No.
42, revoking the expanded reorganizational authority enumerated in paragraph 6 (that is contrary
to the provisions of Charter sections 7-102 through 7-104), with the exception of the powers of
the newly established OCFO. In addition, the resolution reinstated the independence of the Law
Department as provided for in Article 7.5 of the 2012 Charter.

Finally, on May 17, 2016, City Council unanimously passed a resolution amending EM Order
No. 38, which established the Housing and Revitalization Department (HRD), to require that the
appointment of a director of HRD be subject to Council con?rmation in the same manner as the
director of the Planning and Development Department.

ORDERS TO BE CONSIDERED FOR INCORPORATION INTO A REVISED
CHARTER

Article 7, Chapter 12 of the 2012 Charter of the City of Detroit addressed the Department of
Water and Sewerage. The structure and function of the department has been entirely changed by

8

actions of the EM and pursuant to the POA. The Great Lakes Water Authority was established,
pursuant to EM Order No. 34, altering the power and functioning of DWSD. With respect to
DWSD, Charter language should be clari?ed to emphasize that City Council approval of water
rates, its annual budget and contracts, are indeed requirements, in a manner largely
consistent with all other City departments. Such a requirement serves to protect the citizens by
allowing input into the process, and although it is currently the law per the Charter, DWSD has
not complied with these basic actions since the establishment of in essence, allow this
City department to function, more or less like an authority.

Article 7, Chapter 9, covers the ?Public Lighting Department? as it existed when the Charter was
adopted. EM Orders No. 6 and 18 established the Public Lighting Authority, undermining the
functioning of the PLD.

The new Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer (OCFO) now encompasses much of Article 6 of
the 2012 Charter, Executive Branch: Staff Departments. Likewise, the Flaming and
Development Department and Human Resources (HR) have been subject to
restructuring that may need to be considered when reviewing Chapters 2 and 4 of Article 6. In
addition, the newly carved out Housing and Revitalization Department might be added to Article
6.

Finally, the new DoIt and Grants Management Departments, created pursuant to EM Orders No.
39 and 27 although not required to be included in the Charter, may be considered for inclusion.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF ORDERS TO BE REVISED

Although signi?cant portions of EM Order No. 42 (conclusion of the tenure, etc.) have
been addressed, paragraph 7 (described above) has not been revised and is ripe for revocation.
Paragraph 7 provides as follows:

Notwithstanding any City or human resources rule, regulation, policy, agreement,
ordinance or practice to the contrary, including, but not limited to, the City?s Civil
Service Rules, and with the approval of the Mayor and the Council in
coordination with the Human Resources Department, the City may implement
departmental restructurings not inconsistent with any other EM Order. These
restructurings may grant department heads the authority to make hiring, retention,
promotion, demotion, reassignment and any other related personnel decisions
affecting their departments, in consultation with the Human Resources
Department. Such reorganizatons shall comply with the terms of applicable
collective bargaining agreements and provide required notices to impacted
employees and labor unions.

This blanket authority to the Administration to implement restructuring outside of the routine,
regulated course of government business is not necessary or prudent on an ongoing basis. The
City is now almost ?ve years out from the con?rmation of the POA and in position to return to
operations without the use of such extraordinary administrative remedies. EM Orders No. 38,
40, HR, and 41, OCFO, also include similarly broad restructuring authority; City
Council may consider curtailing the effect of those Orders as well. Proposed resolutions

9

terminating the unlimited restructuring authority provided by EM Orders No. 38, 40, 41, and 42
are attached to this report, for Council?s consideration. (E, attachments.)

EM Order No. 36, dated September 22, 2014, simply repealed Chapter 14, Article VI of the
Detroit City Code. That ordinance established Citizens District Councils (CDCs) for purposes of
?Community Development?, pursuant to Public Act 344 of 1945, MCL 125.71 et seq. As his
reason for EM Order No. 36, the EM rather stated:

The powers granted to the City in accordance with PA 344, and the
implementation of such powers pursuant to Article VI, no longer align with the
City?s urban renewal strategy, and, in some cases, present a barrier to the effective
and ef?cient development of blighted areas of the 

Like the BOPC, the issue of maintaining or eliminating CDCs implicates the status and
functioning of a local elected body accountable to the people of Detroit, and involves one of the
most pressing areas of quality of life in the City. LPD has suggested in the past that, if the
Council so desired, the City could theoretically simply reinstate Chapter 14, Article VI of the
Detroit City Code, the same provisions repealed by the EM. Alternatively, if Council, in
consultation with the Administration were to prefer a revised version of CDCs that they deem to
be better ?align[ed] with the City?s urban renewal strategy?, a new ordinance incorporating that
policy could be introduced and enacted.

Attachments

10

RESOLUTION TO FURTHER REVISE EMERGENCY MANAGER ORDER NO.
38, ORDER MODIFYING PLANNING AND DE VELOPMEN DEPAR MEN AND
ESTABLISHING HOUSING AND RE VI ALIZA TION DEPARTMENT

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

In September 2014, as the Emergency Manager prepared to transition from his
position (and as the City?s bankruptcy proceedings were drawing to a close), he
issued Emergency Manager Order No. 42 restoring much of the power to the
executive and legislative branches of City government, as well as Emergency
Manager Orders Noexpedite the restructuring of various
City departments; and

Emergency Manager Order No. 38, Order Modi?/ing Planning and DeveIOpment
Department and Establishing Housing and Revitalization Department,
?determined that it is appropriate to establish a new Housing and Revitalization
Department (the to perform certain functions previously performed by the
Planning and Development Department and

EM Order No. 38 grants the Mayor authority to establish the HRD and appoint a
Director. As speci?ed in paragraphs 4 through 7 of the order, HRD ?shall
strategically manage the City?s Federal entitlement and related resources?, ?lead
initiatives to attract public and private investment in city neighborhoods using
public land and ?nancing?, ?invest the City?s entitlement funds in affordable,
mixed income and mixed-use housing developments and related public
improvements in addition to leading the planning associated with Community
Development Block Grants, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, HOME funds
and Neighborhood Opportunity Fund? that is, ?the PDD and the PDD Director
shall no longer perform the functions set forth in paragraphs 4, 5, 6, and 7 of this

Order?; and

Public Act 436 of 2012, speci?cally MCL provides ?[a]fter the
completion of the emergency manager's term and the termination of receivership,
the governing body of the local government shall not amend the 2-year budget
adopted under subsection (1) without the approval of the state treasurer, and shall
not revise any order or ordinance implemented by the emergency manager during
his or her term prior to 1 year after the termination of receivership.?

By City Council resolution unanimously adopted on May 17, 2016, EM Order
No. 38 was revised to give City Council con?rmation authority over the
appointment of the HRD Director, consistent with Section 4-111 of the 2012
Charter of the City of Detroit, given that HRD was carved out of PDD, whose
Director is speci?cally subject to Council con?rmation per the Charter; and

LPD: June 7, 2019

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

With the City now nearly ?ve years past its exit from bankruptcy and emergency
management, and as the Mayor and City Council work effectively to advance the
City?s recovery, including implementation of the Plan of Adjustment, it is time to
fully restore essential checks and balances and transparency to the operations of
City government; and

Paragraph eleven (11) of EM Order No. 38, like EM Orders 40, 41, and 42, grants
ongoing, continuing restructuring authority to the HRD and PDD Directors to
ignore ?City and human resources rule, regulation, policy, agreement, ordinance,
or practice to the contrary, including, but not limited to, the City?s Civil Service
Rules? to allow the directors to ?determine placement of all positions?, ?create
and modify job titles, roles, responsibilities and positions?, and to ?make
recruitment, hiring, retention, promotion, demotion, reassignment and any other

related personnel decisions? affecting HRD and and

Paragraph twelve (12) of EM Order No. 38 similarly grants blanket authority to
the HRD and PDD Directors, with the approval of the Mayor, to modify the
organizational components and functions of HRD and and

Paragraph ?fteen (15) of EM Order No. 38 provides the following unbridled
authority with respect to City-owned commercial property:

Notwithstanding any City Charter provision, regulation, policy,
agreement, ordinance, or practice to the contrary, the PDD
Director, subject to the approval of CFO, may enter into a contract
with the Detroit Building Authority with respect to the
management of any City?owned commercial property. Any
transfer of City-owned property to the Detroit Building Authority
can only be accomplished with City Council approval.

This ongoing, unilateral contractual authority is no longer justi?able and
transparency concerns require its termination; and

The revision of EM Order No. 38 to restore the rule of pre-Emergency
Management law to the City, including, but not limited to, adherence to the
Charter, City Code, Civil Service Rules, will not impact the success of the Plan of
Adjustment. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

Recognizing that by 2019, the City has derived any necessary restructuring
bene?ts from the liberal provisions of EM Order No. 38, the Detroit City Council
hereby revokes the above described extraordinary authority granted by paragraphs
eleven, twelve and ?fteen of the Order and restores the pre-emergency
management rule of law. AND BE IT FURTHER

LPD: June 7, 2019

RESOLVED That a copy of this resolution shall be transmitted to the Director of the Housing
and Revitalization Department, the Director of the Planning and Development
Department, and Mayor Mike Duggan.

LPD: June 7, 2019

RESOLUTION TO REVISE EMERGENCY MANAGER ORDER NO. 40, ORDER

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

June 6, 2019

RES URIN THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT

In September 2014, as the Emergency Manager prepared to transition from his
position (and as the City?s bankruptcy proceedings were drawing to a close), he
issued Emergency Manager Order No. 42 restoring much of the power to the
executive and legislative branches of city government, as well as Emergency
Manager Orders Noexpedite the restructuring of various
City departments; and

Emergency Manager Order No. 40, Order Restructuring the Human Resources
Department, dictated a new organizational structure for the Department
(paragraph 4), established ?ve (5) supervisory positions, and gave the Human
Resources (HR) Director broad authority to: set initial compensation, create
subordinate positions, create a new classi?cation and compensation system for the
City, create a performance management system for the City, review the Civil
Service Rules, and create a Center for Workforce Development (paragraphs 5-
12); and

Like EM Orders 38, 41, and 42, EM Order No. 40 contains broad, ongoing
restructuring provisions, granting the HR Director unbridled restructuring
authority no longer necessary almost ?ve years post-Emergency
Management/Receivership. The provision, paragraph 13, reads as follows:

Notwithstanding any City or human resources rule, regulation,
policy, agreement, ordinance, or practice to the contrary, including,
but not limited to, the City?s Civil Service Rules, the HR Director
shall have the authority to:

a. Determine the placement of all human resources
positions, including the selection and removal of
incumbents, within the HR Department;

b. Create or modify job titles, roles, responsibilities
and positions in support of the City?s human
resources functions, within the HR Department and
other City departments, divisions and agencies; and

c. Make recruitment, hiring, retention, promotion,
demotion, reassignment and any other related
personnel decisions affecting the City?s human
resources functions.

In all events, the HR Director shall comply with the terms of
applicable collective bargaining agreements and provide required
notices to impacted employees and labor unions, if applicable. . . . 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

RESOLVED

June 6, 2019

and

The City of Detroit?s receivership status was terminated upon the completion of
the City?s bankruptcy case on the effective date of the Plan of Adjustment,
December 10, 2014. Pursuant to Public Act 436 of 2012, City Council may
amend orders implemented by the emergency manager one (1) year after the
termination of receivership; and

With the City now nearly ?ve years past its exit from bankruptcy and emergency
management, and as the Mayor and City Council work effectively to advance the
City?s recovery, including implementation of the Plan of Adjustment, it is time to
fully restore essential checks and balances and transparency to the operations of
City government; and

The revision of EM Order No. 40 revoking the blanket, continued restructuring
authority to the HR Director, unlimited by the City?s Civil Services Rules, human
resources rules, regulations, policy, agreement, etc., will not impair the City?s
?scal recovery. Reverting to a more transparent, pre-Emergency Management,
manner of managing the City?s HR functions, after almost ?ve years of
unhindered restructuring activity, will have no negative effects on the City?s ?scal
health or continued success of the Plan of Adjustment. NOW THEREFORE BE
IT

The Detroit City Council hereby revokes the continued restructuring authority
granted to the HR Director by EM Order No. 40, speci?cally contained in
paragraphs thirteen (13). AND BE IT FURTHER

That a copy of this resolution shall be transmitted to the HR Director, the Chief
Financial Of?cer and the Mayor?s Of?ce.

RESOLUTION TO FURTHER REVISE EMERGENCY MANAGER ORDER NO.
41, ESTABLISHING CEN RALIZED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

ORGANIZA IONAL STRUCTURE

In September 2014, as the Emergency Manager prepared to transition from his
position (and as the City?s bankruptcy proceedings were drawing to a close), he
issued Emergency Manager Order No. 42 restoring much of the power to the
executive and legislative branches of city government, as well as Emergency
Manager Orders Noexpedite the restructuring of various
City departments; and

Emergency Manager Order No. 41, Order Establishing Centralized Financial
Management Organizational Structure, consistent with the dictates of Michigan
Public Act 181 of 2014, amending the Home Rule City Act (speci?cally, MCL
117.4s), granted sweeping powers to the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer (CFO)
establishing a centralized ?nancial management organizational structure, called
the Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer, to provide ?management oversight,
control, and direction to the existing Budget Department, Finance Department and
all their subordinate components, and all ?nance, budget, and grant related
components of other City departments, divisions, and agencies?; and

EM Order No. 41 grants the CFO ?all of the authority and responsibilities of the
Finance Director under Sections 6-301 and 6?302 of the City Charter and Budget
Director under Section 6?101?, as well as creating ?Divisions? of the Of?ce of the
CFO comprised of the former Of?ces of the Assessor, Treasury, Controller,
Contracting and Procurement, Grants Management, Budget, and Financial
Planning Analysis; and

The City of Detroit?s receivership status was terminated upon the completion of
the City?s bankruptcy case on the effective date of the Plan of Adjustment,
December 10, 2014. Pursuant to Public Act 436 of 2012, City Council may
amend orders implemented; and

With the City now nearly ?ve years past its exit from bankruptcy and emergency
management, and as the Mayor and City Council work effectively to advance the
City?s recovery, including implementation of the Plan of Adjustment, it is time to
fully restore essential checks and balances and transparency to the operations of
City government; and

By resolution unanimously adopted on May 17, 2016, City Council revoked the
authority to unilaterally write off accounts receivable without City Council
approval if the accounts are older than the statute of limitations, and restored

1

LPD: June 7, 2019

WHEREAS

Council?s contract approval authority pursuant to Charter section 4?122 and
Detroit City Code section 18-5-21. Restoration of Council approval of these
actions shines needed light on the City?s ?scal workings; and

Like EM Orders 38, 40, and 42, EM Order No. 41 contains broad, ongoing
restructuring provisions, granting the OCFO unbridled restructuring authority --
no longer necessary almost ?ve years post-Emergency
Management/Receivership. The provision, paragraph 10, is as follows:

Notwithstanding any City or human resources rule, regulation,
policy, agreement, ordinance, or practice to the contrary, including
but not limited to the City?s Civil Service Rules, the CFO shall
have the authority to do the following in consultation with the
Human Resource [sic] Department:
a. Determine the placement of all ?nance, budget, and
grants related positions, including the selection and
removal of incumbents, within the Of?ce of the
CFO and other City departments, division and
agencies;
b. Create or modify job titles, roles, responsibilities
and positions in support of the City?s ?nance and
budgeting functions, within the Of?ce of the CFO
and other City departments, divisions and agencies;
and
c. Make recruitment, hiring, retention, promotion,
demotion, reassignment and any other related
personnel decisions affecting the City?s ?nance
and budgeting functions.
In all events, the CFO shall comply with the terms of applicable
collective bargaining agreements and provide required notices to
impacted employees and labor unions, if applicable. . . . 

and

WHEREAS The surgical revision of EM Order No. 41 restoring City Council?s contract

approval authority and speci?c accounts receivable write-offs did not impair the
ability to expeditiously pursue and complete restructuring of the ?nancial
functions of the City as mandated by MCL 117.4s, did not impact implementation
of the Plan of Adjustment, did not require a budget amendment, and had no ?scal
impact on the City. Similarly, reverting back to a more transparent, pre-
Emergency Management, manner of managing the City?s ?nance related
departments and functions, after almost ?ve years of unhindered restructuring

2

LPD: June 7, 2019

activity, will have no negative effects on the City?s fiscal health or continued
success of the Plan of Adjustment. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED The Detroit City Council hereby revokes the continued restructuring authority
granted to the CFO by EM Order No. 41, speci?cally contained in paragraphs ten
(10) and thirteen (13). AND BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED That a copy of this resolution shall be transmitted to the Chief Financial Of?cer
and the Mayor?s Of?ce.

LPD: June 7, 2019

RESOLUTION TO FURTHER REVISE EMERGENCY MANAGER
ORDER NO. 42: ORDER ADDRESSING ISSUES RELA TING 0 THE
CONCLUSION OF THE EMERGENCY MANA GER TENURE AND

TRANSITION OF CITY OPERATIONS TO THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

LPD: 6/6/2019

In September 2014, as the Emergency Manager (EM) prepared to transition from
his position and the City?s bankruptcy proceedings were drawing to a close, he
issued Emergency Manager Orders Noexpedite the
restructuring of various City departments; and

Emergency Manager Order No. 42, Order Addressing Issues Relating to the
Conclusion of the Emergency Manager?s Tenure and Transition of City
Operations to the Mayor and City Council, modi?es, revokes, or supplements
provisions of previous orders, and addresses responsibilities of the Mayor and
City Council post-bankruptcy/emergency management by restoring the powers
granted by the Home Rule City Act and the 2012 Charter of the City of Detroit.
The Order effectively restores the authority of the Legislative Branch, but
enhances powers of the Executive Branch; and

With the City now approaching ?ve years past its exit from bankruptcy and
emergency management, and as the Mayor and City Council work effectively to
continue the City?s recovery, a number of the EM Orders require additional
modi?cation or rescission to restore essential checks and balances to the
operations of City government; and

EM Order No. 42, at paragraph 7, grants ongoing authority to the Mayor, beyond
the dictates of the voter-adopted Charter of the City of Detroit, to restructure
Executive Branch departments outside of the carefully enacted procedural
constraints in the Charter, the City Code, and the City Service Rules, speci?cally
stating:

Notwithstanding any City or human resources rule, regulation,
policy, agreement, ordinance or practice to the contrary, including,
but not limited to, the City?s Civil Service Rules, and with the
approval of the Mayor and the Council in coordination with the
Human Resources Department, the City may implement
departmental restructurings not inconsistent with any other EM
Order. These restructurings may grant department heads the
authority to make hiring, retention, promotion, demotion,
reassignment and any other related personnel decisions affecting
their departments, in consultation with the Human Resources
Department. Such reorganizations shall comply with the terms of

1

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

RESOLVED

LPD: 6/6/2019

applicable collective bargaining agreements and provide required
notices to impacted employees and labor unions, if applicable. . . 
and

The City of Detroit?s receivership status was terminated upon the completion of
the City?s bankruptcy case on the effective date of the Plan of Adjustment,
December 10, 2014. Pursuant to Public Act 436 of 2012, City Council may
amend orders implemented by the emergency manager at any time more than one
(1) year after the termination of receivership; and

The City is nearly ?ve years out from its emergence from bankruptcy and
receivership. Adequate time for effective departmental restructuring has elapsed
and it is imperative that transparency in government be restored. Revision of EM
Order No. 42 to restore the balance contemplated by the 2012 City Charter, the
City Code, the Civil Service Rules, and other established governmental rules and
regulations, will have no ?scal impact on the City. EM Order No. 42, paragraph
six, was previously revised by unanimous City Council resolution adopted on
May 17, 2016. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of Emergency Manager Order number
42 or Emergency Manager Order number 44, at paragraph 17, the provisions of
EM Order No. 42, paragraph 7, granting the Administration, including department
heads, ongoing extraordinary restructuring authority (with the exception of those
powers of the Of?ce of Chief Financial Of?cer granted pursuant to Public Act
181 of 2014) are revoked, and the provisions of the City Charter, City Code, Civil
Service Rules, and any other relevant regulations or policies as they existed pre-
Emergency Management are fully restored to the extent not otherwise amended
by the Mayor and City Council pursuant to the City Charter; AND BE IT
FINALLY

That a copy of this resolution shall be transmitted to the Corporation Counsel and
the Mayor?s Of?ce.

 
Ctt?k .

as
. . 


  
   

     

CITY OF DETROIT Eu,? 1.,qu-
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL Inspectorceneral

June 7, 2019

Via Email, Certi?ed Return-Receipt and First Class Mail

Steve Fishman, Esq.
Ford Building

515 Griswold, Suite 1125
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Report of Administrative Hearing and Final Determination of OIG Investigation File Nos. 16-0071-
INV and 18-0031-INV

Dear Mr. Fishman:

This letter is being sent to your attention in accordance with Sections 1841-7, 8 and 9 of the City
of Detroit Debarment Ordinance to provide you with a copy of the City of Detroit Of?ce of the Inspector
General Report of the Administrative Hearing and the Final Determination pertaining to the OIG
Investigation File Nos. 16-0071-INV and Please be advised that after having fully
investigated this matter, the OIG has determined and is recommending that:

1) Parimal (Perry) Mehta be debarred for a period of 20 pears for the reasons stated in the
attached report effective September 3D, 2016 and ending on September 30, 2036: and

2) FutureNet Group, Inc. (FutureNet) be debarred fora period of 15 years for the reasons stated
in the attached report effective September 30, 2016 and ending on September 30. 2031.

As such, pursuant to Section 18-11-9 of the City of Detroit, we are ?ling a copy of this letter, along
with the attached Report of the Administrative Hearing and the Final Determination with the City
Clerk for transmission to City Council. The reasons for the recommended debarment for Mr. Mehta and
FutureNet are contained in the attached OIG's Report.

Please note, pursuant to Section 18-11-4, no debarred contactor is eligible to serve as a
subcontractor or as a goods, services or materials supplier for any City contract. This includes providing
equipment, land, and employees to a City of Detroit contractor.

Therefore, in accordance with Section attached please ?nd the City of Detroit
Debarment Ordinance, which was previously mailed to you last year. Should you wish to appeal the 
final determination and/or the length of the debarment proceeding, please be advised that you or your
representative must submit a written response within 28 days from today which would be Tuesday, July
5, 2019 with the City Clerk.

65 Cadillac Square - Suite 3210 - Detroit, MI 48226 Phone: 313.628.25l7 - Fax: 313.628.2793

Please be advised the appeal letter tagether with any supporting materials must be filed with the
City Clerk for transmission to City Council. Please note that the contractor may request an in person
meeting with City Council, at which the contractor may be represented by legal counsel. See, Section 18-
11-11 of the attached City of Detroit Debarment Ordinance.

Should you have any questions or concerns regarding the appeal process, please contact the OIG
Attorney, Jennifer Bentley, at 313628-5657.

Very truly yours,




Ellen Ha

Inspector General

Enclosures: Report of Administrative Hearing and Final Determination
City of Detroit Debarment Ordinance

CC Via Hand-Delivery: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

CC via email only: Lawrence Garcla, Corporation Counsel
David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Beth Niblock, Chief Information Of?cer

City of Detroit

Of?ce of the Inspector General
FutureNet Debarment Matter
OIG Case No. 2016-0071
June 7, 2019

 

Ellen Ha, Esq.

Inspector General

CITY OF DETROIT

OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

I. Final Recommendation

On March 27, 2019, the Of?ce of Inspector General (016) held an administrative hearing
for FutureNet Group, Inc. (FutureNet) and its CEO Parimal (Perry) Mehta. The purpose of the
hearing was to provide FutureNet an opportunity to present evidence, testimony, and any
supporting information in response to the preliminary ?nding that FutureNet and Mr.
Mehta have not acted as responsible contractors and should both be debarred for twenty (20)
years. After having reviewed all evidence and conducting an administrative hearing on the
matter, the ?nal recommendation is as follows:

- The initial recommendation that FutureNet be debarred for twentv [20} yea rs be
AMENDED to ?fteen (15] years with an effective date of September 30, 2016. The
end date of the debarment is September 30. 2031.

a The initial recommendation that Parimal ?Perry? Mehta be debarred for twenty (20)
years be SUSTAINED. The end date of the debarment is September 30. 2036.

II. Complaint

On September 28, 2016, the Of?ce of Inspector General (OIG) received a complaint from
the City of Detroit Law Department. The letter stated that on April 8, 2016, former Deputy
Director of the City of Detroit?s Department of Information Technology Services 
Charles L. Dodd, Jr., entered into a plea agreement with the Public Integrity Section of the
United States Department of Justice for the crime of Federal Program Bribery. He subsequently
pled guilty on September 27, 2016. Mr. Dodd admitted to soliciting and accepting cash
payments totaling more than $15,000 from Perry Mehta, CEO and President of FutureNet, a
contractor that provided information technology services and personnel to the City of Detroit. It
was requested that the OIG investigate both the conduct of Mr. Dodd as well as FutureNet.

The OIG investigation was placed on hold due to the ongoing criminal investigation. On
September 14, 2018, the OIG reopened its ?le after Charles Dodd was sentenced to twenty (20)
months in US District Court. Therefore, on September 17, 2018, the OIG sent Perry Mehta and
FutureNet a letter informing them that the OIG was proposing they be debarred for the maximum
allowed period of twenty (20) years pursuant to the City?s Debarment Ordinance.

FutureNet Overview
a. Company Information
FutureNet provided information technology (IT) and consulting services to various
clients. The company also engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing, installing,

selling, and servicing antiterrorism force protection systems, including active and passible barrier
systems and electronic monitoring products. It previously contracted with the City of Detroit to

Page 1 of 10

provide technology resources in support of information technology related projects for as
well as for other City agencies' FutureNet was also awarded a sole source contract to assist the
Building, Safety, Engineering, and Environmental Department (BSEED) with the
implementation of a new software platform.2

At the time of the bribery of Mr. Dodd, Mr. Mehta was the President and CEO of
FutureNet. On March 21, 2017, Perry Mehta resigned from

positions with Future Net Group, Inc. (?FutureNet?) and
FutureNet Security Solutions, LLC (?Security Solutions?). This
includes me resigning from the positions of Chief Executive Of?cer
President, Board of Directors member, Chairman of the
Board of Directors, and Facility Security Of?cer at utureNet, and
from the positions of CEO and Manager at Security Solutions.3

Also on March 21, 2017, FutureNet?s Board appointed the following of?cers: Joginder
Singh (CEO), Jignesh ?Jay? Mehta (Senior Vice President), Krishal Dalal (Senior Vice
President), Jeff Achten (Senior Vice President), and Brian Cooper (Vice President).4 On March
6, 2018, CEO Joginder Singh resigned as Chairman and CEO. Jay Mehta was elected by
FutureNet?s Board to serve as the Chairman and CEO and Krishal Dalal was elected to serve as
the Director of the Board and Senior Vice President.5

Currently, FutureNet has no remaining assets or employees. On May 7, 2018, Wayne
County Circuit Court appointed Basil Simon as receiver for FutureNet. This occurred after the
company became substantially indebted to several lenders.6 To date, Mr. Simon has sold all
divisions of FutureNet Group under his direct supervision to multiple independent companies.
As a result, FutureNet does not have any remaining employees and is essentially a dormant
company.7

b. Contracts with the City of Detroit

The City of Detroit has had various contracts with utureNet to provide technical
resources to various city agencies to assist with their technology initiatives.8 Most recently, the
City of Detroit entered into Contract No. 2896739 with FutureNet whereby the company

 

2014-2016 Professional Services Contract No. 2896739 between the City of Detroit Information Technology
Services Department and FutureNet Group, Inc., Exhibit A: Scope of Services, pg. 30.

2 Professional Services Contract No. 6000772 between the City of Detroit and FutureNet Group, Inc.

3 Perry Mehta Resignation Letter dated March 21, 2017.

4 March 21, 2017 Board Resolution/ Joint Written Consent of the Board of Directors and Common Shareholders of
utureNet Group, Inc.

5 March 6, 2018 Board Resolution/ Written Consent Resolution in Lieu of Meeting of the Board of Directors

6 Detroit Investment Fund, LP, and Chase Invest Detroit Fund, LLC. v. utureNet Group, Inc., utureNet Security
Solutions, LLC, Motor City Developer, LLC, and Parimal D. Mehta, Case No. 18-004682-CB Wayne County
Circuit Court. Circuit Couit Judge Lita M. Popke. Order Appointing Receiver.

7 Steve Fishman email to the OIG dated April 23, 2019.

8 The OIG had a contract with FutureNet for web?based case management system for production of secured ?les and
reporting. It was Contract No. 2876477 for the amount of $58,600. The contract began on March 22, 2013 and
ended on June 30, 2016.

Page 2 of 10

provided technology resources in support of information technology related projects for DolT as
well as for other City agencies.9 The contract began on October 1, 2014 and terminated on
September 30, 2016, with two (2) one-year renewal options. The contract amount was not to
exceed $6,091,200. On April 20, 2015, the contract was am ended to increase the amount ofthe
contract, not to exceed 

On June 13, 2017, the Detroit City Council approved Contract No. 6000772.11 The
purpose of the contract was for BSEED to implement Accela which is a software platform
designed for use by government agencies to administer a variety of tasks, including licensing,
inspections, permitting, and right of way management. FutureNet was selected as the prime
vendor through a sole source justification meaning they were identified as the only potential
provider. The justification stated in part

FNG is the only Detroit1 Michigan based value added reseller for
Accela solutions including Software license, maintenance,
managed services, implementation and training services. For City of
Detroit, FNG is only single prime vendor for all Accela solutions
related services.

IV. Indictment and Guilty Pleas
a. Charles L. Dodd, Jr.

On September 27, 2016, Mr. Dodd pleaded guilty in the US. District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan to one count of federal program bribery. 12 On September 11, 2018,
he was sentenced to twenty (20) months in prison, to be followed by two (2) years of supervised
release, for accepting more than $29,500 in bribe payments from two IT companies providing
services and personnel to the City of Detroit.

According to admissions made in connection with his plea, Mr. Dodd held numerous
supervisory positions with the City of Detroit, including his appointment as Director of DolT in
2014. Mr. Dodd exercised supervisory authority over a staff of dozens of public servants and
contractors. He also held signi?cant in?uence over the administration of multi-million dollar
contracts between the City of Detroit and private IT companies. '3

 

9 2014-2016 Technical Resources Contract No. 2896739 between the City of Detroit Information Technology
Services Department and FutureNet Group, Inc., Exhibit A, Scope of Services, pg. 30.

'0 City of Detroit Amendment Agreement No. 1 to Contract No. 2896739, pg. 2. The contract was approved by the
Financial Review Commission (FRC) on April 20, 2015.

Contract No. 6000772 was approved by the PRC on June 26, 2017.

12 Department ofJustice, US. Attorney?s Of?ce Eastern District ofMichigan (2016, September 27). Former
Director of Detroit Office of Departmental Technology Services Pleads Guilty to Bribery [Press Release]. Retrieved
from 
bribery

'3 Department ofJustice, US. Attorney?s Of?ce Eastern District of Michigan (2018, September 1 1). Former
Director of Detroit Technology O?ice Sentenced to Prison for Bribery [Press Release]. Retrieved from


Page 3 of 10

According to Mr. Dodd?s Plea Agreement '4 and the Government Sentencing

Memorandum, ?5 he solicited and accepted cash totaling around $15,000, a trip to North Carolina
and other things of value from utureNet President and CEO Perry Mehta. Mr. Dodd admitted
that he accepted these things of value from Mr. Mehta intending to be in?uenced and rewarded
in connection with FutureNet?s efforts to obtain business with Detroit, and that he used his
of?cial in?uence to provide preferential treatment to FutureNet in exchange for these things.

b. Perry Mehta

On May 30, 2018, Perry Mehta pleaded guilty to 18 U.S.C 666(a)(2) Federal Program
Bribery in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Mr. Mehta
admitted that beginning in approximately 2009, and continuing through about August 2016, he
gave, offered, and agreed to give things of value to Mr. Dodd in exchange for of?cial acts which
would bene?t FutureNet, The of?cial acts included the selection of FutureNet personnel to ?ll
open positions in various city departments and the selection of FutureNet to implement particular
technological projects in various city departments. Mr. Mehta also asked Mr. Dodd to provide
con?dential information regarding Detroit?s internal operations and to expedite payments to
utureNet from Detroit.16

V. Administrative Hearing

On October 10, 2016, the OIG sent a letter to Mr. Mehta to inform him that on
September 28, 2016, the OIG initiated an investigation into the circumstances
surrounding the September 27, 2016 guilty plea of Mr. Dodd. The letter speci?ed the
basis of the OIG investigation was Mr. Dodd?s admission to accepting more than $29,500
in unlawful payments from two (2) information technology companies providing services
and personnel to the City of Detroit, one of those companies being FutureNet.

The OIG investigation was subsequently placed on hold due to the ongoing
federal investigation. On September 14, 2018, the OIG reopened the case after Mr. Dodd
was sentenced. Based on the evidence gathered by the OIG, we found that FutureNet and
Mr. Mehta are not a responsible contractors. Therefore, in a letter dated September 17,
2018, the OIG advised FutureNet and Mr. Mehta that we were initiating debarment
proceedings. On October 15, Steve Fishman, Mr. Mehta and FutureNet?s attorney,
responded to the proposed debarment on behalf of his clients.

On November 9, 2018, the OIG offered FutureNet and Mr. Mehta the opportunity
to have an administrative hearing to present evidence and testimony in response to the
OIG ?ndings. Section 7.5-311 ofthe Charter provides that report or
recommendation that criticizes an of?cial act shall be announced until every agency or

 

'4 Plea Agreement as to Charles L. Dodd Jr., United States of America v. Charles L. Dodd Jr., Case No. 2:16-cr-
20629 (ED. Mich. September 27, 2016).

'5 Government Sentencing Memorandum as to Charles L. Dodd Jr., United States of America v. Charles L. Dodd Jr.
Case No. 2:16-cr-20629 (ED. Mich. August 28, 2018).

'6 Plea Agreement as to Parimal Mehta, United States of America v. Parimal D. Mehta, a/k/a ?Perry Mehta,? Case
No. 3:18-cr-20060 (E.D. Mich. May 30, 2018).

Page 4 of 10

person affected is allowed a reasonable opportunity to be heard at a hearing with the aid
of counsel.?

a. FutureNet and Perry Mehta

On October 15, 2018, Mr. ishman asked that the OIG delay making its ?nal decision
until after Mr. Mehta?s December 3, 2018 sentencing hearing. In a separate email dated October
26, 2018, Mr. Fishman stated that he was urging the OIG to consider Mr. Mehta?s conduct as
separate and distinct from FutureNet as a whole. He stated that he believed the OIG would have
more information about the critical issues once we had access to (1) Mr. Mehta?s sentencing
memorandum; (2) the government?s memorandum; and (3) the transcript of the hearing which
would include the judge?s comments. On October 29, 2018, the OIG agreed to postpone the
hearing until the above?mentioned documentation could be obtained.

On January 29, 2019, Mr. ishman provided the transcript of the sentencing hearing. Mr.
Mehta?s sentencing memorandum as well as the government?s memorandum were also provided
to the OIG. On February 8, 2019, he requested an administrative hearing for both utureNet and
Mr. Mehta. The hearing was held on March 27, 2019. FutureNet and Mr. Mehta were asked to
provide any evidence or testimony that evidenced they are responsible contractors. Mr. Fishman
provided additional documentation and presented information on behalf of his clients at the
hearing. He called no witnesses.

b. Jay Mehta

On October 13, 2016, the OIG sent a letter to ignesh ?Jay? Mehta to inform him that on
September 28, 2016, the OIG initiated an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the
September 27, 2016 guilty plea of Mr. Dodd. At the time the bribery occurred, Jay Mehta was
the Senior Vice President of FutureNet. The letter speci?ed the basis of the OIG investigation
was Mr. Dodd?s admission to accepting more than $29,500 in unlawful payments from two (2)
information technology companies providing services and personnel to the City of Detroit, one
of those companies being FutureNet.

The OIG investigation was subsequently placed on hold due to the ongoing
federal investigation. On September 14, 2018, the OIG reopened the case after Mr. Dodd
was sentenced. Based on the evidence gathered by the OIG, as of September 14, 2018,
we found that Jay Mehta is not a responsible contractor and thus the OIG was
recommending discipline up to and including debarment.

Therefore, on September 17, 2018, the OIG sent a letter to Jay Mehta?s attorney,
Marshall Goldberg, notifying him ofthe initiation of debarment proceedings. He was also
noti?ed that, if his client wished to oppose the debarment, a response was required no later than
October 15, 2018. On October 12, 2018, Mr. Goldberg requested an extension to respond and
the OIG denied the request in accordance with the City?s Debarment Ordinance. However, at
that time, the OIG agreed to accept any supplemental response in addition to the October 15th
response, the of?cial deadline date in accordance with the City?s ordinance.

Page 5 of 10

The OIG did not receive a response from Jay Mehta or his attorney. Therefore, on
October 16, 2018, the OIG emailed Mr. Goldberg to con?rm no response was received by the
OIG. On November 5, 2018, the OIG sent Mr. Goldberg a letter stating that since the initiation
of debarment proceedings against his client was unopposed, Jay Mehta was debarred for the
maximum penalty of twenty (20) years, with an effective date of September 30, 2016 and an end
date of September 30, 2036.

VI. Debarment Analysis

Debarment is reserved for city contractors who have been found to have engaged in
improper, unethical, or illegal conduct related to their contractual agreement with the City of
Detroit. The purpose of the Debarment Ordinance is to ensure that the City of Detroit solicits
offers from, awards contracts to, consents to subcontracts with, or otherwise does business with
responsible contractors only. Debarment is to be imposed only when it is in the public interest. 17
There is no statute of limitations on investigations, ?ndings of violation of the debarment policy
or the initiation of debarment proceedings. 18

The initial ?ndings regarding FutureNet and Perry Mehta not being responsible
contractors were based on Mr. Mehta?s and FutureNet?s conduct of bribing Mr. Dodd. In
response to the initiation of debarment proceedings, Mr. Fishman argued that since ?Mr. Mehta
is solely responsible for his misconduct, neither FutureNet nor any other member of FutureNet
should be punished.l9? However, Mr. Mehta and FutureNet cannot be considered separate and
distinct. While the bribery was occurring, Mr. Mehta was the Chairman, CEO, and President of
FutureNet. His actions resulted in direct ?nancial bene?t to the company. Additionally,
FutureNet did not have the proper policies and procedures in place to prevent or detect the
bribery scheme which lasted from approximately 2009 through August of 2016.

In Defendant?s Motion for Variance, it was argued that Mr. Mehta?s case was different
from the ?ordinary bribery case,? which lends support to a lenient sentence for Mr. Mehta.20 Mr.
Fishman argued the following points:

1. FutureNet was a long-established contractor dating back prior to Mr. Dodd?s employment
with the City of Detroit.

2. FutureNet received the City contracts in open competition and because of its
performance.

3. The City of Detroit received full value for the services provided by FutureNet and those
services, particularly involving the Accela contract, saved the City money.

4. It cannot be argued that FutureNet received the Accela contract because of anything
having to do with the relationship between Mr. Mehta and Mr. Dodd.

 

?7 Debarment Ordinance, Section 18?1 1-1. Purpose.

'8 Debarment Ordinance, Section Grounds for Debarment.

'9 Letter from Mr. Fishman to the Re: OIG Investigation File Nos. and 18-0031-1NV dated
October 15, 2018.

20 Motion for Variance, United States of America v. Parimal D. Mehta, Case No. 3:18-cr-20060 (E.D. Mich. May
30, 2018), pg. 4-5.

Page 6 of 10

5.

Mr. Mehta and Mr. Dodd had a longstanding, friendly relationship that included
socializing.?

The 01G ?nds these arguments unpersuasive in making its ?nal debarment decision.

Based on the evidence presented in court pleadings, Mr. Mehta?s case was not different from the
?ordinary bribery case? in both his actions and the harm it caused to the public trust. The actions
of Mr. Mehta outlined in the Government Sentencing Memorandum dated November 19, 2018
are deeply troubling and reinforce Mr. Mehta and FutureNet?s inability to act as responsible
contractors. According to the Government Sentencing Memorandum, Mr. Mehta engaged in the
following conduct:

For approximately seven (7) years, Mr. Mehta bribed Mr. Dodd to obtain lucrative city
business and con?dential city information by providing Mr. Dodd with money, travel,
gifts, and jobs for family members.22

On December 15, 2014, Mr. Mehta sought con?dential information from Mr. Dodd to
support FutureNet?s proposal to implement Accela at BSEED. Mr. Mehta requested that
Mr. Dodd ?expedite this agreement.? In response, Mr. Dodd advocated for FutureNet to
city of?cials. He also provided Mr. Mehta with con?dential information which Mr.
Mehta then used in a meeting with city of?cials where they discussed ?various aspects of
purchasing and implementing [the] entire Accela solution.? Soon after, FutureNet was
awarded the sole source Accela contract. 23

At the same time, and continuing through September 2016, FutureNet submitted
proposals to implement and support Accela with other Detroit city agencies, which would
result in millions of dollars in potential revenue for FutureNet. While these FutureNet
proposals were pending, Mr. Mehta regularly met Mr. Dodd to exercise his in?uence in
these matters and paid him bribes.24

During summer 2016, Mr. Dodd provided Mr. Mehta con?dential budgetary information
which Mr. Mehta used in negotiating with the Detroit Department of Public Works
(DPW) and the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department At a later date, Mr.
Mehta requested the internal budgetary information for the Detroit Health Department
(DHD) and the Housing and Revitalization Department (HRD) to use in FutureNet?s
Accela proposal to these City agencies.26

As detailed above, the reasons given for Mr. Mehta?s leniency in his criminal case do not

support a reduction in the length of debarment proposed by the 01G against Mr. Mehta.
FutureNet, through Mr. Mehta, used con?dential budgetary information to help it secure the
Accela contract. These actions cannot be considered as fair, competitive, or transparent. Mr.

 

2'1d. at 5-6-7.

Page 7 of 10

Fishman argued that FutureNet was the only authorized Accela seller in the City of Detroit.27

However, the City was considering using the State of Michigan?s existing Accela contract.
Therefore, it was not a given that FutureNet would have been awarded the contract without the
assistance of Mr. Dodd.

Mr. Fishman also argued that the City of Detroit did not suffer a ?nancial loss.28 Indeed,
no restitution was sought by the US Attorneys? Of?ce from Mr. Mehta or utureNet. However,
the OIG is not convinced by this argument because it would be dif?cult, if not impossible, to
calculate any potential ?nancial loss to the City of Detroit. In addition to the Accela contract,
the City contracted with FutureNet to provide IT personnel. It is unknown if any utureNet
personnel were hired at Mr. Dodd?s urging despite other quali?ed, and perhaps for less amount
through other IT personnel agencies.

While it is unknown if the City of Detroit suffered any actual ?nancial loss by
contracting with utureNet, the loss of public trust and con?dence in the City?s contractual
process cannot be underestimated. The public?s trust is diminished anytime a public servant is
corrupted. It weakens the citizens? con?dence in the City of Detroit?s bidding and contracting
process as well as their con?dence in the ability of public servants to act in the best interest of
the public. Therefore, the OIG ?nds that it is not in the best interest of the City of Detroit or its
citizens to continue to do business with Mr. Mehta and FutureNet.

a. Changes in Ownership and Leadership

On March 21, 2017, Perry Mehta submitted his resignation letter which stated that he
resigned from

all positions with Future Net Group, Inc. (?FutureNet?) and
FutureNet Security Solutions, LLC (?Security Solutions?). This
includes me resigning from the positions of Chief Executive Of?cer
President, Board of Directors member, Chairman of the
Board of Directors, and Facility Security Of?cer at FutureNet, and
from the positions of CEO and Manager at Security Solutions.

Also on March 21, 2017, the Board of Directors for FutureNet passed the Board
Resolution/ Joint Written Consent of the Board of Directors and Common Shareholders of
utureNet Group, Inc. which appointed the following of?cers: oginder Singh (CEO), Jay
Mehta (Senior Vice President), Krishal Dalal (Senior Vice President), Jeff Achten (Senior Vice
President), and Brian Cooper (Vice President). The of?cers again changed through a Board
Resolution/ Written Consent Resolution on March 6, 2018. At that time, CEO oginder Singh
resigned as Chairman and CEO, Jay Mehta was elected to serve as the Chairman and CEO, and
Krishal Dalal was elected to serve as the Director of the Board and Senior Vice President.

 

27 Transcript of Administrative Hearing at 11, In Matter of: OIG Case No. 2016-0071 Debarment Matter, dated
March 27, 2019.
28 Id. at 8.

Page 8 of 10

Though Perry Mehta ceased to have a role in the day-to-day operation of FutureNet
beginning in March 2017, all ofthe above individuals held positions with the company during
the ongoing bribery of Mr. Dodd. They bene?ted from Mr. Mehta?s illegal actions and failed to
put policies and procedures in place to prevent and detect such behavior from occurring.
Additionally, Jay Mehta, who did not oppose his debarment, is now the Chairman and CEO of
the company. Therefore, the OIG ?nds that these changes are not enough to demonstrate that
FutureNet can act as a responsible contractor.

Further, Perry Mehta continued to have an ownership interest in the company for over a
year after he resigned from FutureNet. In a letter dated March 26, 2018, Mr. Mehta stated that
he ?transferred the 100% ownership of [his] equity interest for FutureNet Group and subsidiaries
including FutureNet Security Solutions, LLC to an independent trust.? The bene?ciaries of the
trust are Mr. Mehta?s children.29 Though Mr. Mehta divested his ownership in FutureNet, it was
not an arm?s length transaction. He merely gave his ownership to his children. Additionally, he
did not give up his ownership until over a year after he resigned and only a few months before
the Wayne County Circuit Court appointed Basil Simon as the receiver. Mr. Simon was charged
with managing the entire operations of the company including disposition of company assets due
to FutureNet becoming substantially indebted to several lenders.

b. Remedial Actions Taken by FutureNet

FutureNet has taken some remedial measures to prevent future wrongdoing. The
remedial measures taken include updating the Employee Handbook to provide employees with an
overview of FutureNet?s code of ethics and con?ict of interest policy as well as requiring
employees to watch an ethics training video. Employees are now required to sign an
acknowledgement that they received the handbook and video training.

However, these actions were not taken on FutureNet?s own initiative. The company
undertook these remedial measures as part of an Administrative Agreement between the United
States Department of Justice (DOJ) and FutureNet which was entered into on April 17, 2017.
The required FutureNet to make changes due to the bribery scheme in order to be eligible to
bid on federal contracts.

Nevertheless, because FutureNet has taken steps to prevent future wrongdoing and
because we want to encourage wrongdoers to change and to correct their paths, we do not
recommend the maximum debarment of twenty (20) years in this instance. FutureNet has fully
cooperated with the OIG investigation and has provided the OIG with evidence that it has taken
steps to institute new policies and procedures aimed at preventing improper, unethical, and
illegal conduct from occurring in the future. For these reasons, the OIG ?nds that a period of
?fteen (15) years is an appropriate length of debarment. If FutureNet had taken the steps to
prevent wrongdoing on their own initiative, the OIG would have considered an even shorter
period of debarment.

 

29 Steve Fishman email to the OIG dated April 23, 2019.

Page 9 of 10

VII. Conclusion

Based on the evidence above, the OIG ?nds that FutureNet and Perry Mehta are not
responsible contractors. Mr. Mehta engaged in improper, unethical, and illegal conduct in the
City of Detroit contracting process at the expense of the citizens of Detroit. Though FutureNet
has started to take steps to prevent this from occurring in the future, more needs to be done.
Additionally, Jay Mehta, who did not oppose his proposed debarment, is the current Chairman
and CEO of FutureNet. The Debarment Ordinance prohibits any person who is currently
debarred from doing business with the City as a contractor or subcontractor.

FutureNet?s conduct under Perry Mehta?s leadership and its continued ties to Jay Mehta,
cannot easily be dismissed. Every action a contractor takes or does not take has consequences
and every contractor must be held accountable for actions taken and not taken. The OIG is
tasked with ensuring that the City solicits offers from and awards contracts to responsible
contractors only. The serious nature of debarment requires that it is only imposed when it is in
the public interest. Therefore, the OIG finds debarment to be in the public interest in this
instance.

Section 18?1 1?12(a) of the Debarment Ordinance states that

The period for debarment shall be commensurate with the
seriousness of the cause or causes therefore, but in no case shall the
period exceed 20 years. Generally, debarment should not exceed
?ve years, except: (1) Debarment for convictions of criminal
offenses that are incident to the application to, or performance of, a
contract or subcontract with the City, including but not limited 
bribery, falsi?cation or destruction of records. ..

The OIG wants to encourage companies whose leadership and employees engage in
improper, unethical, or illegal behavior to proactively identify de?ciencies within their
companies that allowed such behavior to occur and correct it. These companies should also act
swiftly and decisively against those whose actions are in question. FutureNet has changed their
policies and procedures in an attempt to prevent future issues. However, the company acted due
to an Administrative Agreement with the DOJ and not on their own volition. Based on these
reasons, the OIG ?nds that Perry Mehta should be debarred from contracting and subcontracting
with the City of Detroit for a period of twenty (20) years and FutureNet should be debarred from
contracting and subcontracting with the City of Detroit for a period of ?fteen (15) years.

Page 10 of 10

