

520?47

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

May 15,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6001467 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1? To Provide Renovations at
Community Center. (Boiler Replacement, Environmental, Electrical,
Patching, and Interior Painting.) Contractor: Franklin Wright
Settlements Location: 3360 Charlevoix St., Detroit, MI 48207 
Contract Period: September 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021 Total
Contract Amount: $200,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION
(This Amendment is to Add Time Only, Original Expiration 8/31/19.)

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001467 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 15, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

   

 

PHONE 313?224?4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 
MEMORANDUM
TO: Honorable City Council
FROM: Alex Henderson 
Assistant Corporation Counsel
Municipal Section, Law Department
DATE: May 16, 2019
RE: Processing of Applications for Secondary Street Signs while Amendatory

Ordinance is Pending



The Planning and Economic Development Committee, through Council Member Benson,
has requested the Law Department to provide written reSponse regarding (1) the imposition of a
moratorium on processing applications for secondary street signs by adopting a resolution, and (2)
the legality of suspending the processing of applications for secondary street signs under the
current ordinance until an amendatory ordinance is enacted.

BACKGROUND

Council Member Tate has requested the Law Department to draft an ordinance to amend
the provisions of the Detroit City Code pertaining to the secondary naming of streets. The Planning
and Economic Committee discussed a moratorium, through the adoption of a resolution, on the
processing of applications for secondary street signs while the proposed amendment is being
considered.

SHORT ANSWER

The City may not impose a moratorium on processing applications for secondary street
signs by adopting a resolution. However, the City may stop accepting petitions and requests for
secondary street signs if Chapter 50, Article VII, Division 3 is repealed through the enactment of
an ordinance, but any petitions or requests submitted before the repeal becomes effective would
need to be processed in accordance with the terms of the Code that were in effect at the time of
submission.

LAW AND ANALYSIS
I. AdOption of Resolution to Impose Moratorium on Process Set by Ordinance

Section 4-114 of the Detroit City Charter provides, accordance with state law, an
ordinance shall be enacted to provide a permanent rule for the conduct of government, while a
resolution shall be adopted to express a determination, to direct a particular action, or to approve

 

 

a singular event.?l That section continues, addition to other acts required by law or by
speci?c provision of this Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City shall be by
ordinance which . . . [a]mend or repeal any language in, or add any language to, the Detroit City
Code.?2

The procedures for processing petitions and requests for secondary street signs are found
in Chapter 50, Article VII, Division 3 of the Detroit City Code.3 Ceasing to process petitions and
requests would likely lead to the violation of timing provisions currently provided in the
procedures.

Therefore, in accordance with Section 4-114 of the Detroit City Charter, an ordinance,
rather than a resolution, is required in order to make changes to the procedures for processing
petitions and requests for secondary street signs.

11. Legality of Suspending the Processing of Applications for Secondary Street Signs
until the Amendment Ordinance is Enacted

The processing of new applications may be suspended by repealing Chapter 50, Article
VII, Division 3 of the Detroit City Code. However, any petitions or requests that had been
submitted before such repeal would need to be processed in accordance with the provisions of the
ordinance that was in effect at the time of submission. This is because the submission of a petition
or request is accompanied by the payment of a non-refundable fee.4 To accept the non-refundable
fee accompanying an application and then process the application under more restrictive criteria
than what was in effect at the time of submission would be an unconstitutional deprivation of the
applicant?s property.5



A moratorium on the processing of applications for secondary street signs cannot be
implemented through the adoption of a resolution because the application process is set by
ordinance, and a resolution cannot repeal or amend an ordinance.6

The City of Detroit may stop accepting applications for secondary street signs if the current
ordinance is repealed. 7 However, as the current ordinance requires the payment of a non-
refundable fee to accompany any application or request for a secondary street sign,8 any such
applications or requests that have been submitted at the time of a repeal must be processed under
the terms of the current ordinance.

 

Section 4-1 14 of the Detroit City Charter.

Id.

See DETROIT, MICH, CODE ch. 50, art. VII, div. 3 (2017).
See 

See US. CONST. amend. XIV, 1.

See Section 4-114 of the Detroit City Charter.

See id.

DETROIT, CODE (2017).

-I a LII 

David Whitaker, Esq.

at Eettuit 

lrvin Corley, Jr. CITY COUNCIL

Executive Policy Manager
Mme" 1" LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION

Senior City Planner 1 .
Janese Chapman 2(13 Coleman A. Young Mummpal (I enter
Deputy Director Detroit. Michigan 48336

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224%336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

TO: Detroit City Council
FROM: David Whitaker, Director"
Legislative Policy Divie/ioil
DATE: May 14, 2019
RE: Legislative Policy Division?s Additional Questions/Observations on the

Development amongst the City of Detroit (City), City of Detroit Brown?eld
Redevelopment Authority (DBRA) and FCA US LLC (FCA) and various other

related documents

Please see attached for the Legislative Policy Division?s additional questions/observations on
various documents, including the deve10pment agreement amongst the City, DBRA and CA,

for Council?s edi?cation.

LPD would appreciate the Administration?s prompt response to these questions.

Thank you.

Attachment

May 14,2019

Additional Questions/Observations made by the Legislative Policy Division (LPD) based on the

review of the Development Agreement amongst the City of Detroit, City of Detroit Brown?eld

Redevelopment Authority (DBRA) and FCA US LLC (FCA) and various other related
documents

Development Agreement amongst City of Detroit, DBRA and FCA

1.

According to section 2.01 (3), City Council should be reminded that the rezoning
requirements for Parcel 1A and 2115 St. Jean will follow in a second petition, which is
anticipated to be referred to the Detroit City Council by the City of Detroit Planning
Commission by no later than July 18, 2019. Please explain the signi?cance of the pending
second petition of a rezoning for Parcel 1A and 2115 St. Jean.

Per section 7.02 please provide a copy of the enhanced recruitment agreements with the
Carpenters?, Electrical Workers?, Plumbers?, and Mechanical Contractors? unions that reduce
payments under the Executive Orders, if available.

Per section 7.02 the City will consult with FCA on corporate income tax policy reforms

that will encourage manufacturing in the City with the objective of developing legislation to
be passed at the state level. Please describe the type of corporate income tax policy reform is
envisioned.

Exhibit 1.0 (4), Exhibit A, section entitled ?Ensure Impact Area Residents Have Increased
Access to Training and Job Opportunities through a funding commitment totaling
$18,800,000?, 4) indicates ?City commits $500,000 to fund scholarships through the Detroit
Promise, The Detroit Promise funds will be administered by the Detroit Regional Chamber,
The scholarships will be earmarked speci?cally for students of the impact area?. Please
explain the legality of using City funds for a scholarship program.

Per Exhibit 1.01 (10), CA will pay for special protective services involving 3 special
protective of?cers and 3 fully marked DPD vehicles per shift, at three (3) 8-hour shifts per
day. How will this impact the service delivery of police of?cers in the Police Department?

. Per Exhibit 1.0] (10), please provide Exhibit payments for special protective services,

if available.

Per Exhibit 1.01 (13), why would the DBRA look to issue bonds in August 2019 when the
MSF is providing an investment of $20 million for site preparation costs?

Funding Agreement with Transfer Agreement with DBRA

8.

City to transfer approximately 208 parcels of land to the DBRA in exchange for the 
payment to the City of up $965,093. D0 Exhibits A-l through A-8 encompass the 208
parcels? Would a future brown?eld plan also include a $965,093 loan payable to the City at
1% interest from TIF revenues, in addition to the $7.5 million loan payable to the City at 1%
interest from TIP revenues?

1

10.

ll

12.

Page 28 of FCA Project Overview presented to the Committee on Thursday, May 9,
2019 indicates the City will receive $768,000 in cash from Deal #2 Huber Yard associated
with the Soave real estate acquisition. Where is this codi?ed in the Land Exchanges/Property
Sales documents?

The $54 million purchase price for Crown?s Budd Plant Property could increase by $21
million if certain conditions are not met. What type of certain conditions are not met to
potentially increase the purchase price by $21 million?

. Crown has 6 months to bring to correct non-compliant conditions on the half of the acquired

parcels, and 1 year to bring all parcels into the compliance. Please explain what it means to
bring the parcels into compliance.

Page 40 of CA Project Overview presentation on May 9th discusses the real estate
acquisition with Michael Kelly. Does this description match the amended resolution-land
exchange/property sales relative to Kelly that is currently before City Council for approval?

Millennium Garage Sale

13.

LPD has not seen a Sign off from the Budget Director on the Millennium Garage sale.

 Glittp of Eetrm?t

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY OUNC IL
@2393; ?12,313?" LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336
John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Honorable Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Director 
Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE: May 14, 2019

RE: DETROIT CITY COUNCIL CDBG FUNDING PRIORITIES 

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashlev A. Wilson

REPROGRAMMING AMENDMENTS TO CDBG ANNUAL ACTION PLAN

This memorandum is in response to the April 22, 2019, memorandum submitted by the Of?ce of
Council Gabe Leland in regards to a request for the Legislative Policy Division to provide a
current list of the Detroit City Council?s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding
priorities in addition to an opinion on the apprOpriateness of an ordinance requiring
reprogramming amendments to give ?rst consideration to Detroit City Council CDBG funding

priorities.

Attached, please ?nd a copy of the FY 2019-2020 OF funding priorities which where
adopted by Your Honorable Body in July of 201 8. For the past ten (10) years, the Detroit City
Council has been requested to submit a completed survey which lists in rank order your funding
priorities for both Public Service and Non-Public Service for each OF process. For the
past three years your Honorable Body?s priorities have remained unchanged, with the exception
of several CDBG items shifting completely under the Administrations jurisdiction, 
Commerical Facade, which is now Motor City Restore; and Ecomomic Development which is

now Motor City Match.

Under the Public Service category, which is limited to a 15% public service cap Council?s

priorities are listed as:

Education
Seniors
Public Safety

Recreation
Health

Under the Non-Public Service category the only remaining item is Public Facility Rehabiliation
which does not have a cap on the amount of funding which can be expended.

In June of 2018 Your Honorable Body voted to amend the manner in which Homeless Public
Service contracts are reviewed and awarded. The timeline for Homeless Public Service was
shifted to align more so with the Emergency Solutions Grant time line which typically takes
place in either April or May of each year.

In regards to the appropriateness of an ordinance requiring reprogramming amendments to give
?rst consideration to Detroit City Council CDBG funding priorities, the authority for Council to
approval contracts is rested in the City Charter under Sec. 4-122 Approval of Contracts and
Disclosure, which states in part:

he City may not purchase or in any way procure property or the services of
independent contractors without approval by resolution of the City Council except as
provided by ordinance. 
Given that Council has the Charter mandated responsibility to approve all service contracts
inclusive of OF contracts, staff is of the opinion that an ordinance to ensure that

Council?s funding priorities are taken into consideration is not necessary.

Should you have any additional questions or concerns, please contact our of?ce directly.

Attachments

Ll: :dt?x" Planning a Economl Development Standl Com

03 _Lmeltem? {2

+51? Jim-a Bus Discussion
Hearing DPubhc Hearing interwew
Disposutnon '5 .L in 

 

(titty of ZBetroit

COUNCIL
GABE LELAND
COUNCIL MEMBER
MEMORANDUM
TO George Etheridge
City Planner Legislative Policy Division
THRU Council President Brenda Jones
FROM Councilman Gabe 
DATE April 22. 2019
RE: Detroit City Council CDBG Funding Priorities I Reprogramming

Amendments to CDBG Annual Action Plan
I am requesting LPD to:
1. Provide a current list of the Detroit City Council?s CDBG funding priorities.

2. Provide LPD's opinion of an ordinance requiring reprogramming amendments to
give ?rst consideration to Detroit City Council CDBG funding priorities.

Sincerely.

Councilman Gabe Leland
Detroit City Council District 7

Coleman A. Young Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detrolt, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-2151 Fax (313) 224-2035

Detroit City Council?s 2019-2020

Priority Survey

The Legislative Policy Division in conjunction with the Housing Revitalization Department are asking
Your Honorable Body to identify community needs and priorities for the expenditure of federal funds to
low/moderate income families, households and neighborhoods. The results will be used to set the
program funding priorities which will be utilized by the administration for the 2019-2020 
process. Please help us by ranking the following Public Service categories.

NOTE: Place the categories in priority order with the ?rst being of highest importance to you. Please
complete this survey and submit it to the LPD o?ices by FRIDA JULY 13, 2018.

PUBLIC SERVICE CATEGORIES

SENIORS ELDERL 
Which includes: Chore Services, Adult Day Care,
Support service (Transportation, Food Services, Medical, etc.)

PUBLIC SAFETY

Which includes: Crime prevention programs, Community Policing,
Human Traf?cking

ED CA I 0N
Which includes: After school programs, Con?ict Resolution,
Programs, Counseling, Adult Education, Job readiness programs

HEAL TH SER VICES

Which includes: Substance abuse treatment, Abused and neglected
individuals, Mental health services, Services to the disabled/impaired,
Dental care/ Health care services

RECREATION
Which includes: Sports, Cultural Enrichment (Dance, Music, Theatre,
Art)

PLEASE INDICATE YOUR FUNDING
CATEGORY PRIORITIES FOR PUBLIC
SERVICE HERE:

1.

 

2.

 

 

 

HOMELESS PUBLIC SERVICE ACTIVITIES

GEN A I VIT IES
0 Emergency Shelter

Domestic Violence Emergency Shelter

Transitional housing

Permanent housing

Housing for disabled/chronic homeless

Housing for homeless veterans

Food banks/food programs

Support Services (Utility shutoff prevention)

Wote: Since there are no sub-categories under
Homeless Public Service please rank the Homeless
Public Service activities in order of importance to you)

PLEASE INDICATE YOUR FUNDING
CATEGORY PRIORITIES FOR HOMELESS
PUBLIC SERVICE HERE:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
SeniorCity Planner

QEitp of Detroit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

l'f .
LaKlshaBarc??Esq Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Timothy Boscarino, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.
Janese Chapman

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

TO: THE HONORABLE DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

FROM: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE: June 15, 2018

Deborah Goldstein
Christopher Gulock
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy
Analine Powers, 
Sabrina Shockley
Jennifer Rienhardt
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas
Underwood

RE: Establishing Priorities and Threshold Criteria for the 2019-20 Community
Development Block Grant/Neighborhood Opportunity Fund Program

On July 17, 2018 Your Honorable Body is scheduled to receive an update and presentation from
the Housing and Revitalization Department regarding their proposed timeline for the 2019-2020
OF process. The ?rst two proposal writing workshops (there may be more) have been
tentatively scheduled for a Wednesday and Saturday in August ahead of the RFP being released
on August 3 1 st. Similarly to last year a best practices forum was held on Monday, June 18,
2018. This forum was advertised via the public access channels as well as email distribution

networks through your respective offices.

For several years the Detroit City Council has held Committee of the Whole strategy sessions on
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), where it has been recommended that the City

Council adopt funding priorities for the pending Community Development Block

Grant/Neighborhood Opportunity Fund funding cycles in anticipation of a 7.5% to
10% reduction in funding. However, in 2018-2019 an overall increase in funding was realized,
supplemented by additional funds through a Section 108 loan defeasance payment. Since the
OF process of 201 5-16 the City Council and the Administration have elected to adopt
the same set of priorities as you have done for the past four funding cycles. Earlier this year as
Your Honorable Body deliberated on OF, Public Safety was listed as your top funding
priority. While only two applications were received for Public Safety, given that the Public
Safety category was your top priority the two groups were funded in their entirety.

Additionally, it has been recommended that Council take the necessary actions to formally adopt
the joint threshold criteria that City Flaming Commission staff and the Housing and

Revitalization staff are required to use in reviewing the OF proposals for the applicable
?scal year.

Priorities
As it relates to Council?s past priorities the actual funding amounts from the 2018-19
review are listed below:

'Home Repair $3,900,204
~Homeless/Public Service $2,394,094
Economic Development $2,350,464
?Public Facility Rehabilitation $938,375
- Summer Jobs Program (NRSA) $2,750,000
- Public Service

. Education $950,000

If Seniors $380,000

I Recreation $330,000

Health $225,000

Public Safety $180,000
?T0tal $14,398,137

If council is desirous of funding a public service activity which historically has not been
considered, please indicate what that activity is on the attached survey. Given the time frame
available, and the impact of the Neighborhood Revitalization Strategy Areas on Public Service
funding, it may be best to simply identify the priorities.

Threshold Criteria

Below, please ?nd the twelve (12) threshold criteria recommended for implementation during
the 2019-2020 OF proposal review process. The list is essentially identical to the
threshold criteria adopted by Your Honorable Body the last two years.

1. Must meet HUD National Objective;

2. Group must attend the 2019-2020 OF workshop;

3. Proposal must be complete, typed and submitted by the deadline and on correct
form;

4. Must have at least ?ve (5) member board and meets at least bi-annually;

5. Must have 501(c)3 status prior to applying for proposal;

6. Must have at least one year of operation and proof of operations;

7. Must not have unresolved government audit and monitoring problems tax,
legal, etc);

8. Must submit most recent ?scal year cash ?ow statement, ?nancial statement and if
available, recent audit or 990 within the past two years;

9. Must read and sign con?ict of interest form;

10. Must submit current Non-pro?t Corporation Information Update (Michigan Annual
Non-Pro?t Report);

11. Must submit Certi?cate or Article of Incorporation;

12. Applicant?s organization must provide proof of operating cash on hand (at least 7%

of the request) (PS and HPS only).

Staff will be prepared to draft the necessary resolution(s) to adopt both the funding priorities and
threshold criteria for the 2019-2020 process upon Council?s direction. Staff would
request Council to address this matter as soon as possible in order for the Priorities and Criteria
to be published in the OF application/RFP, which HRD intends to release via 

on Friday, August 31, 2018.

Attachments

cc: Arthur Jamison, HRD
Michael Freeman, HRD
Tamra Fountaine, HRD
Pierre Batton, HRD
Mike Duggan, Mayor

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.
M. Rory Bolger, AICP

Christopher Gulock, AICP

David Whitaker, Esq. ?it? at Etta it Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Director

Irvin Corley,_Jr. CITY COUNCIL Kimani Jeffrey
Executive Poltcy Il/[anager A . 
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION 
Senior City Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 1:35:11
Ellis; 31115:?? Detroit, Michigan 48226 Kim ?ewby

1 Ire . .

Phone. (313) 224-4946 Fax. (313) 224-4336 Analine Powers, 

John Alexander

Sabrina Shockley

Jennifer Reinhardt

Thomas Stephens, Esq.

Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter

Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas

Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etheridge Ashley A. Wilson

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council 
4
FROM: David Whitaker, Director/CE/

Legislative Policy Divis10n
DATE: May 14, 2019
RE: FCA US LLC, Mack Assembly Project Report

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has reviewed the Agreement for the Development of
Mack Assembly Plant (the Development Agreement) between FCA US, LLC (FCA) the Detroit
Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (DBRA), and the City of Detroit (City). This report
provides a highlight of the pertinent provisions of the Agreement as well as some of the
underlying elements undertaken to bring the project to fruition.

LPD notes that the Mack Assembly Plant Project is composed of a number of complex
components which include but are not limited to: land acquisitions; land transfer agreements;
intricate financial agreements and arrangements, employment agreements and plans; and
community benefit agreement provisions. A summary and outline of the Project may not
encompass the essence and gravity of each component. LPD submits this report to assist in
reaching an understanding of the Project, however, the true gravamen of the Project can only be
ascertained by the persons who crafted the terms and conditions of each connecting part. 1

Summary of FCA Project
The Parties have come together and negotiated a way in which to bring about the construction

and development of the FCA Assembly Plant project. In the construction of the assembly plant,
CA anticipates a total expenditure of approximately $1.6 billion and the expected creation of

 

1 Due to the complexities and overlapping interlocking nature of these various land deals and agreements LPD
would ask that City Council request the aid and assistance of the City?s Law Department and Outside Counsel who

prepared or assisted in the preparation of these many documents to participate fully in bringing need clarity thereto.

The Administration?s summary of the FCA Agreement is attached for City Councils convenience.

1

approximately three thousand eight hundred ?fty (3,850) net new full time employees in the
operation of the FCA Assembly Plant. In addition to the construction and assembly of the Mack
Assembly Plant, FCA intends to expend $900 million to retool and modernize the existing
Jefferson North Assembly Plant creating another 1,100 jobs and bringing the total number of net
new jobs to approximately 4,950 and total investment in the area to approximately $2.5 billion to
Detroit. The City and the DBRA have agreed to assist in facilitating this project and together the
parties have undertaken certain obligations.

In order to secure commitment to the project, the City and the DBRA entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), dated February 26, 2019. Under the MOU the City and
DBRA agreed to facilitate as well as provide a number of things including, but not limited to:
securing certain private parcels of land; provide certain publicly owned land; obtain approvals
for rezoning; funding for land acquisition costs; complete environmental reviews and provide
remedial plans where necessary; complete the process for a PA 198 tax abatement agreement
(expected to be worth approximately $12 million to FCA over 12 years); work closely together
to support Detroit?s Community Bene?ts process and reach ?nal recommendations on
community bene?ts; and obtaining ?nal approvals that will be required for the Brown?eld
Redevelopment Plan.2 All rights and liabilities under the MOU will be terminated upon the
Effective Date of the Agreement for the Development of FCA Assembly Plant.

Land Acquisition

Under the MOU and the Development Agreement, the City and DBRA was to acquire certain
private parcels necessary for the CA Assembly Plant project. Some parcels would be acquired
through the purchasing with cash, while others would require a land swap transfer of
publicly owned property or both cash and land swap transfer of publicly owned property.3 The
publicly owned property would be parcels of land owned by the City or the Detroit Land Bank
(DLBA). The City entered into Land Transfer Agreements to cobble together approximately 215
acres of land for the FCA Assembly Plant project.?1 According to the Administration, the City
agreement provides for 155 acres of City-owned land to be swapped and $48.1 million of cash to

 

2 The State of Michigan has made a separate commitment to complete its process for State incentives during the
same period. If these obligations are met and the parties enter into a ?nal development agreement, FCA will start
construction immediately in order to make its production deadline. The City has made an additional commitment to
begin moving dirt from the berm along St. Jean immediately. That work will need to be done to reuse that property
for FCA or for any other development. If the City is unable to secure the land required by FCA in the 60 day
timetable FCA and the City will split the cost of the berm removal.

3 The land swaps include properties that are outside of the impact area in communities that were not provided any
notice of the exchange. Although some areas may result in future community bene?t engagement when redeveloped,
providing those communities notice should have been included in the plan.

4 LPD notes that Council President, Brenda Jones asked the Administration, if FCA would be given fee land in
competitor deals? The reasrmrisc firm: FCA was their have never paid fin' Jami in run (assembly plant {her have built.
FCA also indicated they have secured all necessary properties and have a viable business plan to begin construction
in Belvidere, IL. To restate it plainly, to build an automobile plant in our or any other community, the land that it is
built upon comes free of charge. One might surmise from this response that the construction of this new and greatly
expanded automobile manufacturing facility that when complete will employee nearly 5,000new employees which
when joined with its current staf?ng will house more than 10,000 employees, all of whom with pay at least of the
income tax rate of 2.4% on earnings of $58,000. Jobs that have low barriers to entry, paying living wages that our
large unemployment demographics in our city both need and deserve. A similar expectancy of low skill relatively
high paying jobs from suppliers on a 1 to 7 ratio is a part of this equation. All of that sits as a counterbalance
to the high price land acquisition

be used to acquire 214.6 acres. 5 In addition to acquiring the necessary land, environmental
clean-up, site preparation and other project cost came to approximately $59.5 million. The total
land acquisition cost according to the Administration is approximately $107.6 as set forth below:

 

 

 

Cash Land Swaps

Site Acreage Owner Acreage Value
55.6 City of Detroit $0 $1.1
41.4 DTE $0 25.1 $3.6
10.8 Great Lakes Water Authority $1
5.3 Soave Enterprises LLC $0 9.5 $0.3
3.9 Hantz Group $0 1.7 $0.01
0.1 DPCS District $0.01
82.2 Crown Enterprises, Inc. $43.5 116.6 $10.5
6.9 Conrail $0.5
8.1 Yahiahan $3
0.3 Kelly $0 1.4 $0.02
214.6 Acquisition Total $48.1 154.3 $15.5

Site Preparation and Other

Proiect Cost $59.5

Total $107.6

The breakdown of the land transactions to acquire the property to provide to FCA for the
assembly plant project are as follows:

0 The City assembled 55.6 acres of adjacent City owned property that consist of
parcels identi?ed as the North and South Berms on the west side of St. Jean, (24.9
Acres valued at $383,992); St. Jean Street (12.6 acres valued at $115,508); the
Federal Mogul site across from DDOT Shoemaker facility (14.4 acres valued at
$521,805 and a parcel off St. Jean that connects to the parking lot north of Mack
engine plant (1.2 acres valued at $51,444). The total value of the City?s land
contribution is $1,072,749. These evaluations were determined in accordance with
the ?Land Values from the City Assessor records?. The information provided by
the Duggan Administration?s answers to questions from April 30, 2019.

The acquisition of the DTE owned property at its Conner Creek site and at 11860
Freud consisting of 41 .4 acres was obtained in a land swap deal for 25.1 acres
which includes 1340 third Street (PLD Building of 0.9 acres); 9733 Grinnell (13.1
acres); 14584 Livernois (5.7 acres) Winslow/Lawton parcels (1.8 acres) 11900
Freud (2.6 acres); and 2 Canal (1.0 acres). DTE will demolish the existing
structure at Conner Creek. The DTE site along with the GLWA and Conrail
parcels will be used as a ?nished vehicle parking lot.6

 

5 According to the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation the property values were determined by comparable
market rates in the area as well as an independent appraisal for the parcels and the DTE Connors
Creek property.

6 The City is responsible for assembling the site as well as constructing the parking lot before transferring the
property to FCA. LPD notes we were unable to identify any reference to the cost of constructing the parking lot.

3

I The acquisition of the Great Lakes Water Authority owned property consist of
10.8 vacant acres at Freud Street for the purchase price of $1 million.

.- The acquisition of Soave Enterprises (Soave) property was made pursuant to a
land swap agreement. Soave provided two parcels located at 12001 Mack and
12017 Mack to be provided as part of the new FCA assembly plant for employee
parking. In exchange for the two Mack parcels Soave is to receive 9.5 acres at
and Van Dyke and pay $280,000 which will go into escrow for site
development. In addition, Soave will receive 12.8 acres at Van Dyke and Huber
adjacent to the DWSD Huber Yard and the City will receive 3.2 acres of property
to square off the DWSD Huber site and $768,000. Soave will also obtain a 2-year
option on 9 acres of City owned parcels at 10600 Gratiot, 10644 Gratiot and the
1.7 acre State owned parcel at 10780 Gratiot (the concrete parking area only). The
$280,000 escrowed money can be used for site preparation.7

0 The acquisition of Hantz Group properties consist of 3.7 acres of land adjacent to
the South Benn on Beniteau Street to be used for a stormwater retention and
additional parking. In exchange Hantz will receive approximately 1.7 acres of
land in the area west of the FCA NAP plant. The Hantz transaction was
conducted in conjunction with the prior City/Hantz land transaction where Hantz
had an option to buy 180 additional acres outside the original Hantz footprint.8
The City (through the DBRA) as part of the FCA project land swap is selling 40-
45 acres of land to Hantz within the original footprint.

0 The acquisition of the DPS parcel consisting of 0.1 acre located adjacent to the
South Berm to be used for the retention pond and additional parking.

0 The acquisition of Crown Enterprises property consist of an 82 acre parcel
adjacent to the Jefferson North Assembly Plant that Crown currently leases to
FCA. The acquisition cost totals $54 million which includes $43.5 million in cash
and $10.5 million in land.9 The land swap consist of 116.6 acres of City owned
land. Included is 1.9 acres of land in the bridge area valued at $148,521; 14.5

 

7 The escrow dollars can be used for site prep which includes, for Soave entities: cost of eligible activities under the
Brown?eld Act, above $150,000 for any of the three purchase areas; Purchase of private parcels up to $250,000
total; quiet title costs in excess of QTA Cap (DBRA covers quiet title cost up to $50,000 on City property). For City:
up to $100,000 to be used by DBRA for purchase of State parcel under Road Land Agreement; Any
remaining funds in escrow at the expiration of escrow period to be disbursed pro-rata to City, DBRA and BBC for
sale of properties owned by them.

3 The original Hantz land purchase boundaries were from Jefferson to Mack and Fischer to St. Jean but allowed for
an option to buy an additional 180 acres outside of the original boundaries. The 40-45 acres are being sold to Hantz
at the price set under the original agreement. The sale also terminates the original option.

9 This 82 acre parcel of land (Former Budd Plant Site) sits in the middle of the CA Assembly Plant project
footprint and is currently leased by FCA. It is understanding that the underlying lease between Crown and
FCA has a value of $21 million. The land swap agreement with Crown discounts the 82 acre site at $54 million
($43.5 million in cash and $10.5 million in land). If the City provides the property identi?ed in the I-94 Industrial
area that is located near another property that Crown leases to FCA on Georgia Street (required for expansion), the
discount for the 82 acre site is applied. If the City is unable to provide the property as set forth in the Property
Exchange Agreement, the $21 million will be due of which $15 million the City is responsible and $6 million is the
responsibility of CA. LPD does not know what the risk are that that City undertakes in this transaction, or how
likely are we able to avoid paying out these contingency funds.

4

acres located at 9240 Mt. Elliot (I-94 Industrial Park) valued at $1,265,854; 5.3
acres located at 696 Hart (J efferson/Connor/Freud) valued at $500,000; 4.0 acres
at 7529 St. Aubin (Trombley Triangle) valued at $325,000; 3.1 acres at 3600
Toledo (West Grand Blvd/Toledo) valued at $564,033; 28.5 acres at 1420
Springwells Ct (Springwells Industrial Park) valued at $2,600,000; 1.7 acres at
17140 Mitchell (UTS McNichols/ right of ?rst refusal) valued at $233,482; 45.6
acres 11111 French Road (Airport area) valued at $3,970,930; 1.4 acres at 12121
Mack (JNAP area) valued at $117,612. The total land swap acres for Crown is
116.6, the total dollar value is $10,483,980.

The acquisition of the Conrail property consist of 6.9 acres at a cost of $484,000.
The property sits between the acquired DTE and GLWA sites to create a single 60
acre parcel for ?nished vehicle parking lot.

The acquisition of the Yahiayan property consists of 8.1 acres of property that is
adjacent to the Mack Engine plant. The cost for obtaining the property is $3
million.10

The acquisition of the Kelly property consist of 0.3 acres that is three parcels
within the North Benn. The City is also acquiring one parcel in the
Lawton/Winslow area (as part of the DTE swap) and one parcel in the I-94
Industrial Park area (as part of the Crown Enterprise swap). In exchange, Kelly
receives 14 parcels on Ashland Ave (J efferson/Chalmers); 1 parcel on Dexter Ave
(Russell Woods); the release of pending lawsuits for 2012 unpaid property taxes;
and release of claims for unpaid taxes for 2015 and prior. 

Community Benefits Agreement

As set forth by City Ordinance under Chapter 14, Article XII, certain development projects
referred to as ?Tier 1 Development Projects? are required to undergo community engagement
procedures to determine how the development project may impact the community. As a
result of the community engagement with Neighborhood Advisory Council (N AC) certain
assurances and bene?ts have been made by the CA and the City which have been set forth
in a formal Community Bene?ts Agreement entered into between the City and FCA.

LPD notes that the Community Bene?ts Agreement is a stand-alone agreement and is not
incorporated by reference to the FCA Development Agreement. ?2 The pertinent provision of
the Community Bene?ts Agreement are highlighted below:

Neighborhood Stabilization Impact Area

 

?0 The Yahiayan property is currently used for parking by the adjacent retail center. The easements that were
connected to the property are being extinguished and the FCA will use the parcel along with two of the Soave
parcels for employee parking.

It is understanding that the unpaid taxes owed by Kelly totaled approximately $1 million.

13 As conducted in the past, both the Community Bene?ts Agreement and the FCA Development Agreement should
be approved by City Council at the same time to ensure that one does not go in effect without the other.

5

City commits to invest $5.4 million in the completion of 300 demolitions in the
impact area, primarily the Beniteau area; 100 demolitions per year for next three
years beginning 9 months after City Council approval; priority and accelerated
demolition of vacant structure in the area of Beniteau to McClellan bordered by Mack
and East Warren; $500,000 will be dedicated to home rehabilitation of Detroit Land
Bank Authority (DLBA) homes in the impact area.

FCA commits to invest $1.8 million in home repair grants up to $15,000 per grant in
the impact area for a two year period or until funds expended; $700,000 will be
directed to grant program to support Beniteau Street residents acutely impacted by
construction to prevent noise pollution, up to $15,000 per owner occupied income
eligible home; the grant process will be led by Detroit Housing Revitalization
Department residents who fall outside the income eligibility guidelines for
grants will be encouraged to apply for 0% home repair loans; start of the home repair
grants program will be 3 months from City Council approval date.

DLBA commits to release DLBA side lots for sale in impact area within 3 months of
Council approval; DLBA commits to hold an ?Own it Now? home sales event;
DLBA and the City commit to do complete and/or partial rehabs of vacant homes in
and around the impact area to spur investment in the neighborhood, subject to
completion of the Chandler Park, West End, Riverbend Neighborhood plan.

Engage Impact Area Residents in Flaming and
Development commitment of 

City commits to invest $500,000 in developing a community plan for Chandler Park,
West End and Riverbend sections of impact area; developer and community together
are to direct funding Speci?c outcomes; community planning efforts to conducted by
Detroit Flaming and Development Department; procurement of planning consultant
within 90 days of City Council Approval; City will request DTE to complete full
analysis of electrical infrastructure in impact area (Beniteau to McClellan bordered by
Mack and East Warren) to identify issues with power grid and cost to make necessary
repairs; tree and weed removal in City and DLBA owned lots and continued
maintenance in impact area; Detroit Water Sewerage Department (DWSD) postpone
service interruptions in impact area for two weeks to allow delinquent residents to
apply for funds through Water Residential Assistance Program Building
Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) will enter consent
agreements to those homes in the process of securing a home renovation grant or
loan,

FCA commits $800,000 to fund recommended projects that result from neighborhood
planning process in Chandler Park, West End, Riverbend neighborhoods; funded
projects may include but are not limited: small business development, additional
home repair programs, park improvements, and recreation center study or capital
investment; the $800,000 fund will be held by Invest Detroit for development in the
impact area when the plan is complete; Invest Detroit will invest all proceeds into
eligible activities when the plan is completed.

0 City will invest $300,000 in marketing resources and engage with CA and the
community to develop a campaign to promote the impact area.

Access to Training and Job Opportunities Funding of $18,800,000

- Detroit at Work: FCA commits to direct $5.8 million in state funding towards
programs to maximize employment opportunities for Detroit residents; State funding
will be administered by Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation DESC
commits to provide $2 million in?kind outreach, screening, pre?application support
and interviewing services; FCA will collaborate to develop and implement pre-
application readiness training programs using the state funds; FCA commits to hiring
priority for impact area residents, Detroit residents, retuming citizens and veterans;
FCA commits to working with the City to recruit returning citizens from targeted
community-based training and support service programs; FCA commits to provide
work readiness training for new hires; DESC commits to providing quarterly updates
and metrics regarding pre?employment and workforce development in the impact
area.

- Education Programs: FCA commits to $4 million to fund manufacturing career
academy programs at Southeastern High School/CTE facilities for youth and adults in
partnership with the City and Detroit Public Schools Community District 
City commits to fundraise $4 million from public and private sources in additional
support to manufacturing career academy CTE programs in addition to 2 million
contributed by the City for adult training; funds will be administered by DESC as the
City?s ?scal agent under partnership with City will work with philanthropic
partners to fundraise $50,000 for Timbuktu Academy?s computer lab and library.

I Grow Detroit?s Young Talent (GDYT): City commits to $500,000 to fund GDYT
summer youth employment program; GDYT funding will be administered by DESC.

Detroit Promise: City commits $500,000 to fund scholarships through the Detroit
Promise;13 Detroit Promise will be administered by the Detroit Regional Chamber;
the scholarships will be earmarked speci?cally for students in the impact area.

i AMP at FCA commits to develop the Automotive Manufacturing Program
(AMP) at Wayne County Community College District.

Cd?htinued Community Engagement
0 City has an enforcement committee that will meet for the duration of the time

identi?ed in the Community Bene?ts Provision and will inform and include the NAC
in the enforcement process; FCA will submit all site plans through the standard

 

?3 In reviewing the contract between the City and The Detroit Regional Chamber (Chamber), the Chamber is being
paid $500,000 to undertake the administration of the Detroit Promise Program. Under the Contract, the Detroit
Promise Program is being administered throughout Detroit on behalf of the City by the Chamber. The City may be
committing separately $500,000 for scholarships in the impact area as well as paying the Chamber $500,000 to
facilitate the program, however, it is not re?ected in the contract with the Chamber, which is being presented for
approval at the same time the FCA related material is being submitted.

7

planning review process including and BSEED review; FCA commits to
publishing its Environmental Protection Plans (EPP) and will make that report
accessible and available to the public; FCA will abide by and comply with all existing
ordinances and federal, state and local laws, including the City?s Community Bene?ts
Ordinance.

- Small Business Support: FCA commits to hosting a minority supplier matchmaking
event in the impact area community within 90 days of City Councils approval; City
committed to leveraging two existing small business programs (Motor City Match
and Motor City Restore) to provide support to new and small business owners in the

impact area; Speci?c focus will be placed on small business start-ups in the impact
area

Mitigate Construction Impact by Investing $7.1 Million

- Wall Construction: City commits to construct a wall along St. Jean Street as a sound
barrier to the FCA plant from Warren to Kercheval; Wall design will be approved by
residents along Beniteau Street through a series of meetings to end in May 2019;
Height of the wall to be determined at the completion of a sound study; FCA to
provide support on wall aesthetics by planting ivy and adding potential mural along
portions of the barrier.

0 Stormwater Retention Pond: FCA commits to the construction, security and
maintenance of a storrnwater retention pond on Beniteau Street at Lillibridge Street
between Vemor and Kercheval; FCA will add fencing around the pond as a security
measure to prevent any accidents. FCA commits to improvements around the plant
(green buffer) and retention pond by adding natural sustainable landscaping and
vegetation, low impact grass, and planting trees. 14

0 Traf?c Mitigation: FCA commits to approving truck routing and targets certain times
for increase trucks and vehicle operations to accommodate impact area schools and
other non-industrial traf?c demands; FCA commits to establishing a live person
managed toll-free number for residents to report problems related to plant traf?c;
City?s Department of Public Works (DPW) will continue to work with the FCA truck
routing and area residents to develop a plan for preferred neighborhood traf?c
calming measures; DPW will install preferred traf?c calming measures to ensure
trucks do not drive along residential streets, including speed cushions, one?way street
conversions, and posted signage; the St. Jean route of the Iron Belle Trail will be
removed as part of this project. New routing for the Iron Belle Trail will be
considered as part of the prOposed Neighborhood Flaming efforts.

 

?4 LPD did have discussions with Administration representatives regarding suggested security measures including
but not limited to security cameras that can monitor the retention pond for persons who enter without authority and
safety of children in the area.

The Development Agreement with FCA

LPD has provided a brief summary of some of the provisions of the Development Agreement, a
more detailed review is provided later. During the Planning and Economic Development
Committee, there was discussion regarding some of the following:

Section 3.12 Parcel 10 Property Exchange Agreement

This provision provides that the DBRA. City and CA entered into a Property Exchange
Agreement with Crown Enterprises regarding the purchase price of Parcel 10 (Former
Budd Plant). The property sits in the middle of the FCA Project footprint and FCA currently
leases the property from Crown. The purchase price of Parcel 10 has been reduced to $54 million
($43.5 million cash and 10.5 million in land swapped property). Under the PEA, it appears the
City agrees to convey to Crown property located in the I-94 Industrial Park (an area where FCA
leases additional property from Crown and the 1?94 property is needed for anticipated
expansion). If the cannot provide the I-94 property, the purchase price for Parcel 10
increases an additional $21 million. The method in which the payment of the $21 million is
tendered is set forth in Section and Under subsection the City is responsible
for $15 million which will be added on to the Municipal Project Funds solely for this payment.
Subsection provides that FCA will be responsible for the remaining $6 million. If the
conveyance of the I-94 property transaction is not completed due to failure to
consummate the transaction for reasons other than the removal of the I-94 Property from the city
property, then FCA is reSponsible for the $21 million.

Section 7.02(b) provides that FCA is subject to the Executive Order providing for 51% of the
work to be done by Detroit residents and 30% of the contracts be awarded to Detroit Contractors.
The Agreement provides that the City acknowledges that it has entered into enhanced
recruitment agreements with the skilled trades unions that will reduce the payments under the
Executive Orders, if CA engages the skilled trade unions when seeking workers for
construction. The City also agrees to work collaboratively with FCA to facilitate compliance
with the Executive orders.

Section 7.03(d) Mack Assembly Plant Application Process: provides that the Detroit
Employment Solutions Corporation (DESC) agrees to support FCA in its talent needs in
recruiting, pre-screening and vetting, work-readiness training related to Production Jobs. The
Agreement provides that priority will be given to UAW Candidates (in accordance with the
UAW Collective Bargaining Contract)?. Detroit residents will be given priority17 after the UAW
Candidates. The priority to Detroit residents occurs in two instances: initial application
priority (after UAW Candidates) will be given ?rst to Detroit residents in the Project?s impact
area (including returning citizens and veterans), then to other Detroit Residents (including

 

'5 LPD was not in receipt of the PEA or the Letter agreement between FCA and Crown which details the terms and
conditions that must satis?ed regarding the I-94 Property.

'6 LPD notes that due to FCA having collective bargaining contracts with the UAW that provide priority status to its
members, FCA legally cannot contractually commit to giving another party priority over its prior legal obligation.
The fact that the City is aware of the prior contractual commitment, should the City attempt to interfere with that
commitment could arguably make the City liable for ?Tortious Interference of a Contract?.

l7While the term priority is not de?ned in the Agreement, as de?ned in Black?s Law Dictionary, ?Priority? means: A
legal preference or precedence. When two persons have similar rights in respect of the same subject-matter, but one
is entitled to exercise his right to the exclusion of the other, he is said to have priority.

9

returning citizens and veterans); (ii) hiring priority (after UAW Candidates), FCA will prioritize
hiring for quali?ed Detroit residents with the assistance of DESC providing a list of candidates
that meet basic job requirements. LPD notes, FCA has not provided any speci?c number
of Detroit residents that will be hired which may be mostly due to the unknown number of UAW
Candidates that may vie for the newly opened positions. As indicated the Detroit resident priority
takes second to those candidates.

Section 10.4(d) Payment Shortfall: provides that if on the Monitoring Termination Date?. The
cumulative Annual City Revenue (total amount of projected City revenue as set forth in Exhibit
10.4, is less than the Monitoring Investment Value the FCA shall pay the City the
shortfall within 30 days of the receipt of an invoice from the City (subject to setoffs as detailed
below). Under the provision, at the end of 29 years if the City has not obtained in the cumulative
Annual City Revenue the projected $57,400,000 then FCA will pay the difference between what
was the actual and the projected amount.

Detailed Highlights of Agreement for the Development
of the Mack Assembly Plant

The Agreement for the Development (Agreement) of Mack Assembly Plant by and among FCA
US, LLC (FCA), the City of Detroit (City) and the Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
(DBRA). The Agreement must be fully executed by all parties and will become effective upon
the expiration of the applicable seven-day reconsideration period following the approval of the
Detroit City Council (the Effective Date). The following highlights some of the pertinent
provisions.

Article II Memorandum of Understanding

Article II identi?es the terms that were set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding dated
February 26, 2019 between the City, DBRA and CA. Section 2.02, provides that as of the
Effective Date of the Agreement the MOU will be terminated and the rights, obligations, and
liabilities of the Parties shall be governed by the Agreement.

Article Sale and Purchase of Parcels

Section 3.01 indicates that DBRA is to enter into binding acquisition agreements to acquire all
Private Parcels with a minimum fourteen days title review period, and (ii)as to any Direct
Transfer Parcel, have DBRA designate FCA as the grantee in lieu of deed to DBRA. The DBRA
is to consummate the acquisition of Private Parcel by the Closing Date and complete all of its
obligations provided they do not cause cost to exceed the Then Remaining Municipal
Project Funds?.

 

'8 The Monitoring Termination Date means the earliest of the date on which the cumulative Annual City Revenue
stated in all Annual City Revenue Reports equals or exceeds the Monitoring Investment Value; or (ii) twenty-nine
years from the date of submission by the City of the First Annual City Revenue Report to the Detroit City Council.
?9 ?Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds? means that portion of the Municipal Project Funds not yet expended
or committed pursuant to an executed contract in accordance with the Municipal Project Funds Budget; provided
however the parties acknowledge and agree that the term ?Municipal Project Funds? as used in the de?nition of
Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds shall equal $107,590,000.

10

If during the inspection period of the Private Parcel the DBRA determines the cost or liability
related to the environmental activities or environmental laws will result in an expenditure of
Municipal Project Funds20 beyond the Municipal Project Funds Budget?, DBRA shall notify
FCA ten days prior to the expiration of the inspection period under the pending acquisition
agreement.

Section 3.01 indicates that the closings for acquisition of each Parcel from DBRA shall
occur in accordance with the schedule set forth in the Parcel Worksheet (subject to Force

Maj eure and the provision of Section 6.16 regarding Delayed Acquisition) but only after each
Condition Precedent have been met or waived for such Parcel.

Section 3.03(a) indicates that each Parcel that is not a Private Parcel, the GLWA Parcel or any
parcel that is part of Parcels 1, 1A, 8B and 12, shall be delivered by quit claim deed. The
Private Parcels shall be delivered by covenant deed. Each with a right of reversion or Grant of
Rights for the bene?t of DBRA, subject to prior review and approval as set forth in the
Agreement.

Upon completion of the Closing FCA shall have exclusive possession of such Parcel, subject to
right to complete construction of the St. Jean Barrier as provided in Section 7.03 
Should DBRA or the City desire to access any Parcel after Closing the parties shall enter into the
DBRA Access Agreement prior to any entry thereupon.

Section 3.04(b) indicates that by no later than the Closing Dates for Parcels 1, 8A and 8B
identi?ed on the Parcel Worksheet, DBRA shall complete Site Preparation Activities and
Environmental Activities (except as to vacated St. Jean Street); (ii) satisfy all other obligations of
DBRA under Article along with the City take any and all legally required actions
required to transfer the referenced Parcels to and (iv) transfer the referenced Parcels to
FCA giving exclusive possession and fee simple title to the Parcels. All portions of vacated St,
Jean Street, rights-of- way, alleys shall be added to the Title Insurance Commitment and Survey
along with legal title by quit claim deed contemporaneously with the Closing of the Particular
Parcel of which the vacated street, alley, or right-of?way is a part.

Section 3.04(c) indicates that on the Closing Date, unless extended by FCA, DBRA shall 
close on the purchase of the Private Parcels (Subject to Section 6.16 regarding Delayed
Acquisition); (ii) complete all Site Preparation Activities except as to Parcels 6 and 10) and
complete all Environmental Activities thereto; satisfy all obligations of DBRA under Article
and (iv) convey such Parcels to CA, including any portion of vacated streets, alleys or
rights-of?way.

Section 3.04(e) indicates the City shall ?le a petition to cause the vacation of Connor lane and
use good faith efforts to effectuate the vacation including providing any necessary easements,
subject to Detroit City Council approval; (ii) the objections of impacted adjacent property

 

20 Municipal Project Funds means the funding in the amount of 107,590,000, identi?ed in the Sources and Uses
Funds Worksheet to fund obligations under the Agreement, including without limitation the acquisition of
the Parcels and the Sie Preparation Activities. The portion available at any given time based on the schedule and
milestones set forth in the Sources and Uses of Funds Worksheet.

2? The Municipal Project Fund Budget is to be established under Section 3.04(c) ?fteen days after the Effective Date
by DBRA and FCA and shall detail the anticipated expenditures of the Municipal Project Funds.

11

owners and public utilities; and satisfaction with the terms of the easement for public
utilities. In the event of vacation of Connor Lane under this Agreement, it shall be conveyed by
quit claim deed to FCA with Title Insurance Commitment and Survey as set forth in Section 6.01
and 6.02. All transactions are subject to DBRA and City satisfaction of obligations under
Article (ii) satisfaction of Conditions Precedent; right to reject a Parcel and
terminate its rights under the Agreement as a Declined Parcel; and (iv) the generally applicable
limitation that DBRA shall not be required to perform obligations that would cause cost to
exceed the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds.

The City, DBRA and FCA shall meet at least weekly to (1) manage the project; (2) review the
status of the undertakings of the Agreement; (3) coordinate Due Diligence activities; (4) issue
periodic progress reports; and (5) facilitate and coordinate matters the Parties desire in order to

manage and execute the undertakings under the ?Working Group Protocol?.22

This provision further indicates that within 15 days of the Effective Date, the DBRA and CA
shall approve a budget, detailing anticipated expenditures of the Municipal Project Funds. DBRA
shall submit to FCA all contracts related to the Site Preparation and Environmental Activities;
(ii) any change orders to existing contracts for prior written approval; a modi?cation
to the Municipal Project Funds Budget to account for additional cash substitutes or land
exchanges. Neither the Municipal Project Fund Budget nor any other pertinent exhibit, including
the worksheet delineating the Site Preparation Activities, the Parcel Worksheet, or the
Development Plan, may be modi?ed by DBRA without prior FCA written approval.

Section 3.05 indicates that if any Parcel is deemed Delinquent Parcel by FCA, then has a
right to deliver a Notice of Delayed Article VI Performance or Defective Article VI Performance
following the exhaustion of the following: the right to extend the Closing Date providing
more time for delivery; continue the Project without the Delinquent Parcel in exchange for
DBRA conveying one or more Substitute Parcels (evidenced by approval of Detroit City Council
and DBRA Board) at the sole cost using the Municipal Project Funds (provided the
cost does not exceed the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds subject to the MPF Limit23
and that portion of the Municipal Project Funds Budgeted for Private Parcel acquisitions as
identi?ed in the Municipal Project Funds Budget); (0) To lease one or more Interim Parcels,
(evidenced by approval of Detroit City Council and DBRA Board) at sole cost and
expense using Municipal Project Funds (provided the cost does not exceed the Then Remaining
Municipal Project Funds subject to the MPF Limit) until the Delinquent Parcel is conveyed to
FCA under the Agreement. Any Interim Parcel lease shall be in the form of an Interim Parcel
Lease. Any Substitute Parcel shall be conveyed to FCA in accordance with the Agreement.

Section 3.08 indicates the Parcels will be sold ?As Is, Where Is, With All Faults?, except for
representations made and/or warranty of DBRA and the City as set forth in the Agreement or at
Closing. Upon accepting the Parcels and subject to Section 4.01and 4.02, FCA waives all claims
regarding environmental conditions that the City and DBRA are not otherwise legally liable for

 

33 Under the ?Working Group Protocol? the City, DBRA and FCA shall designate representatives that shall have
authority to make approvals and bind their respective entities subject to where City approvals (City Council), DBRA
Board approvals or FCA approvals are required. The representative identi?ed are; Dave Menardo (City) Kenyetta
Bridges (DBRA) and Ben Monacelli (FCA).

23 MFP Limit means a limit equal to the Municipal Project Funds not yet expended, minus amounts necessary for
DBRA Obligations Under Environmental Laws.

12

pursuant to Environmental Laws. FCA also upon accepting the Parcels releases the City and
DBRA from any and all liability for any defects in or conditions of the Parcels.

Section 3.09 indicates that other than where DBRA and/or City is in breach of any
representation or warranty in the Agreement or documents delivered by DBRA or City or (ii) the
gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct of the DBRA and/or City, the DBRA shall not be
required to incur expenses in excess of the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds in the
performance of its obligations, except as expressly set forth in the Agreement. Following the
Closing Date regarding any Private Parcel and prior to the Closing of any City or DBRA owned
Parcel, if the DBRA determines performing its obligations will cause expenses to exceed the
Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds budgeted for that Parcel it shall notify FCA of the
obligations and the extent to which anticipated cost are in excess for that Parcel. 
obligation shall be tolled, provided DBRA may elect to continue work on any such Parcel to the
extent necessary to comply with obligations under Environmental Laws. The
reasonable and actual cost that exceed the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds shall be
reimbursed by FCA.

Upon delivery of Notice from DBRA to FCA the parties shall meet to confer regarding any
Parcel not yet conveyed to FCA that would cause DBRA to exceed the Then Remaining
Municipal Project Funds budgeted for that Parcel. FCA can elect to have DBRA convey the
subject Parcel ?As-Is, Where Is, With All Faults? as set forth in the Agreement. Under such
conveyance DBRA will not be required to perform any Identi?ed Obligations or meet any
Conditions Precedent that would require expenditure in excess of the Then Remaining Municipal
Project Funds for such cost. CA shall bear all cost to consummate Closing. FCA also may elect
to have DBRA assign all rights and obligations under its agreements with contractors for work
performed under obligations and FCA shall fund any cost outstanding under those
agreements.

Section 3.11 indicates that DBRA shall ?le the necessary petitions and make good faith efforts to
cause the public haring to be held to enable FCA to obtain rights as may be needed to install and
maintain subsurface infrastructure running horizontally across Beniteau street right-or-way for
storm water conveyance.

Section 3.12 indicates Crown Enterprises (Crown), DBRA and City have entered into a Property
Exchange Agreement (PEA) regarding the purchase of Parcel 10 (Former Budd Site) to be
conveyed Directly FCA by Crown. The PEA contemplates certain properties owned by the
will be conveyed to Crown identi?ed as the 1-94 Property. In addition to the PEA,
Crown has entered into a ?Letter Agreement? with FCA regarding commercial arrangements and
the expansion of leased property at 6836 Georgia and the proposed I-94 Property. According to
the Agreement, the PEA provides if the conditions set forth therein as well as those set forth in
the FCA/Crown Letter Agreement regarding the conveyance of the I-94 Property are not met the
reduction of the purchase price for Parcel 10 of $21 million will be nullified. The $21 million
reduction price for Parcel 10 is identi?ed in the Agreement as the ?Incremental Consideration?
which will be due to Crown as set forth in Subsection if the I-94 Property is removed from
the transaction regarding Parcel 10.

Section indicates the DBRA and City will be responsible for funding the Municipal
Project Funds by an additional $15 million, to be used to pay the Incremental Consideration,

13

 upon becoming aware that the Incremental Consideration is due to Crown
the DBRA and City will secure $15 million in additional funding (in excess of the Municipal
Project Funds amount as of the Effective Date) so funds will be on hand prior to the Closing of
Parcel 10. The Municipal Project Funds Budget will be revised in accordance with the Working
Group Protocol and the $15 million will be for the sole purpose of paying the Incremental
Consideration. The Agreement makes clear that the increase in Municipal Project Funds shall in
no way increase the Monitoring Investment Value.24

Section indicates FCA will be responsible for the remaining $6 million of Incremental
Consideration cost by agreeing, pursuant to the Working Group Protocol Budget, or 
paying the amount directly to provided that DBRA shall be permitted to use the
Municipal Project Funds to fund the remaining $6 million of the Incremental Consideration if
FCA elects to pay the amount to DBRA but fails to do so in time to consummate the closing on
Parcel 10. In such case, CA will reimburse DBRA any amounts used from the Municipal
Project Funds to consummate the closing of Parcel 10 which will be used to replenish the
Municipal Project Fund.

Section 3.12(b) indicates, if the Incremental Consideration is payable because CA fails to
consummate the transaction contemplated under the Crown/FCA Letter Agreement for any
reason other than removal of the 1-94 Property from the City Property, FCA will be solely
responsible for the Incremental Consideration as set forth in the subsection.

Article IV Representation and Warranties and the City

Section 4.01 for the DBRA and Section 402 for the City, indicate in pertinent part, the DBRA
and City represents and warrants to FCA: The DBRA and City are a public corporation in good
standing with the State of Michigan and has the authority to enter into the Agreement; no
con?icts exist in the execution, delivery or performance of the DBRA or the City; the Agreement
when executed and delivered by the parties will constitute a binding obligation of the DBRA and
the City; there is no condition which would materially interfere with or impair the user by FCA
of any portion of the Parcels. The DBRA and City represent and warrant that they are in
compliance in all material respects will all Environmental Laws.

Section 4.01 indicates the DBRA represents and warrants as of the Effective Date DBRA
shall have received the portion of the Municipal Projects Funds identified in the Sources and
Uses of Funds Worksheet as City of Detroit Exit Financing Bonds; (ii) not later than for business
days after the Effective Date, DBRA shall have received the portion of the Municipal Project
Funds identi?ed in the Sources and Uses of Funds Worksheet as ?City of Detroit Unlimited Tax
General Obligation Bonds?; not later than July 15, 2019, DBRA shall have received the
portion of the Municipal Project of the Municipal Project Funds identified in the Sources and
Uses of Funds Worksheet as ?Millenium Parking Deck Sale?25.

 

2? The Monitoring Investment Value means Fifty-Seven Million Four Hundred Thousand and No/ 100 Dollars
($57,400,000) less any amounts for which the Municipal Project Funds are used as consideration in place if
exchange property in order to consummate an acquisition pursuant to any Private Parcel acquisition or property
exchange agreement, pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of Section 3.04 with respect to a modi?cation to
the Municipal Project Funds Budget to account for additional cash substitutes for land exchanges.

25 LPD notes that the sale of the Millenium Parking Deck is a part of the representation and warranty of DBRA as
Municipal Project Funds. The sale of the parking deck was a matte of concern for members of City Council.

14

Article VI Covenants and Agreement and the City
The more pertinent provisions of Article VI are highlighted below:

Section 6.03 indicates that as of the Effective Date, the Detroit City Council has approved of the
vacation of the St. Jean Street. After the Effective Date, should FCA request, the City shall make
good faith effort to cause the vacation of any additional streets, alleys and rights-of-way within
and/or adjacent to any Parcel which may require the providing easements for public utilities all
subject to City Council approval.

Section 6.04 indicates that the DBRA and City agree that after the Effective Date other than the
Rezoning no Parcel or Subparcel shall be rezoned without prior written
consent.

Section 6.06 indicate that prior to the Closing Date for each Parcel the DBRA shall complete Site
Preparation Activities at cost and expense using Municipal Project Funds but not to
exceed the Then Remaining Municipal Project Fund, subject to MPF Limit except as to Parcels 6
and 10.

Section 6.08 indicates no later than December 31, 2020 the City shall have constructed or
implemented, or shall cause to have been constructed or implemented, the road improvements as
described in Exhibit 608(1)27

Section 6.9 indicates that as of the Effective Date FCA has access to all City and DBRA owned
Parcels under the terms of Due Diligence Access Agreement. Within 2 business days of DBRA
obtaining access of Private Parcels, subject to FCA and Private Parcel owner?s agreement on a
Private parcel Sue Diligence Agreement, DBRA shall facilitate full access to such Private
Parcels. If the 1-94 property and ?Sherwood Property (as de?ned in PEA) are owned by
the Due Diligence Agreement shall be amended to include such portions and
facilitate access on the same terms.

Section 6.13(f) indicates that if DBRA has not performed the Site Preparation Activites or
Environmental Activities within the time set forth in the Agreement, CA shall have the right but
not the obligation, to close on the Parcel and perform the same at cost and expense
using the Municipal Project Funds provided that the cost shall not cause the total costs
to exceed the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds, subject to the MPF Limit. 

 

26 The Rezoning Requirements mean the following with respect to the following Parcels: Parcel 1: Parcel 1A:
Parcel 8: Parcel 8A: Parcel M2.

37 Exhibit 608(1) provides the City will repave the road surfaces in the following rights-of-way: Kercheval (between
St. Jean an Mt. Elliot; McClellan (between Jefferson and Gratiot); and Conner (Between Mack and Jefferson); The
City will modify traf?c signals at Warrant and St. Jean to add a left turn phase, modify existing pavement markings
to provide for two lanes to turn left into the site simultaneously; The City will install, if needed, pavement markings
to allow for two lanes of traf?c to turn left from St. Jean onto eastbound Jefferson, and the existing traf?c will be
modi?ed to provide for a left turn only phase; The traf?c signals and pavement markings at Jefferson and Conner
will be modi?ed to allow for two lanes eastbound Jefferson Traf?c to turn onto northbound Conner during afternoon
hours; City will install speed humps on blocks adjacent to St. Jena Beniteau) to slow down traf?c and to
discourage FCA employees and other drivers from using these residential streets, if the City determines such
measures are desired by residents.

15

Section 6.16 indicates as to any Private Parcel in the event of a Delayed Acquisition28 DBRA
shall lprovide Notice to FCA of such Delayed Acquisition. The Notice shall have a tolling effect
on both tolling the Closing Date applicable to such Parcel, and tolling the Project
Completion Date (unless the Delayed Acquisition is caused by CA and the DBRA has provided
Notice to FCA of the causal link between default and the Delay in the DBRA Closing
Date. The Closing Date is tolled one day for each day following the date of such notice until
DBRA closes on the acquisition of such Parcel. If the Delayed Acquisition also impedes
completion of its obligations regarding other parcels that are to be in assemblage with
the Private Parcel that is the subject of the Delayed Acquisition, then DBRA may provide Notice
to CA and seek to similarly delay the Closing Date to such other Parcels. If a Delayed
Acquisition has been pending over 30 days, FCA may within a period no longer than of 90 days
thereafter elect to await resolution of the Delayed Acquisition, in which the Project
Completion Date shall be tolled for a period of no longer than 90 days after such election; (ii)
exercise the options set forth in Subsection or or elect to terminate its rights
under this Agreement as to the subject Parcel(s) only in which the subject Parcel shall become a
Declined Parcel?.

Article VII Party Obligations

Section 7.01(a) indicates the DBRA has identi?ed sources of funds for the Municipal Project
Funds, the sources and uses are delineated on the Sources and Uses of Funds Worksheet and are
anticipated to suf?ciently fund obligations under the Agreement. DBRA has received
all approvals necessary to secure the Municipal Project Funds and said funds are available or to
be made available for use in accordance with the Sources and Uses of Funds
Worksheet, except for the Municipal Project Funds requiring approval of the Brown?eld Plan
and the Sources and Uses of Funds Worksheet as coming from State sources. DBRA will take
action to secure the portion of Municipal Project Fuds requiring approval of the Brown?eld Plan
and shall use best efforts to comply with all requirements to secure the portion coming from the
State by the last-in-time Closing Date of the Parcels.

Section 7.01(c) indicates the DBRA to the extent permitted by law and the extent covered by
insurance proceeds, indemni?es, defends and save harmless FCA from any and all losses arising
out of a claim by a third party, except those to the extent caused by gross negligence or willful
misconduct of CA, that may be imposed or asserted against FCA by reason of any of the
following prior to the issuance of the Certi?cate of Completion: any negligent or tortious act
or omission of DBRA in the performance of its obligations under the Agreement resulting in
personal injury, bodily injury, sickness, disease or death, or injury to or destruction of tangible

 

23 A Delayed Acquisition means the occurrence of a delay in the DBRA Closing Date beyond the transaction
schedule contemplated by the pending agreement, due to the default of the seller or transferor of such Private Parcel
of seller?s or transferor?s obligations under agreement to acquire such Private Parcel, or such other actions
of the seller or transferor that delay the acquisition beyond the transaction schedule contemplated by the pending
agreement, or due to the Event of Default of CA in the timely performance of obligations under this
Agreement with respect thereto, provided that DBRA shall have provided Notice to FCA identifying the causal link
between seller?s transferor?s or Event of Default, as applicable, and the delay in the DBRA Closing Date; and
further provided, however, in no event shall the City and /or acts or omission that delay a DBRA Closing
Date constitute or be characterized under this Agreement as a Delayed Acquisition.

29 Declined Parcel means a Parcel for which FCA declines to take title pursuant to Section 301, Section 3.05,
Section 6.02, Section Section 6.16 or Article 

16

property including loss of use; (ii) any failure by DBRA to perform its obligations under this
Agreement.

Section 7.02(b) indicates Sellers and FCA acknowledge that the construction of the real estate
improvements of the Project are subject to the Executive Orders providing for 51% of the work
to be dons by Detroit residents and 30% of contracts awarded to Detroit Contractors. The city
acknowledges that as of the Effective Date, it has entered into enhanced recruitment agreement 3
with the Carpenters?, Electrical Workers?, Plumbers?, and Mechanical Contractors? unions that
reduce the payments under the Executive Orders. The City shall provide further reasonable
assistance to FCA, as reasonably requested by FCA until the Project is completed or there is
Project Default, to meet any requirements under the Executive orders including working with FA
to facilitate compliance with the Executive orders.

Section 702(0) indicates the City shall make good faith efforts to cause the owner of Parcel 2A
(located at 12802 Kercheval) to undertake the following security measures: demolition of
improvements or installation of an unclimbable eight foot fence with razor wire around the
perimeter if the improvements; (ii) blocking off existing driveways; encasing all doorway
and window openings utilizing concrete blocks and cement to eliminate entry, if not demolished;
(iv) closing all interior and exterior pathways that allow access to the roof; cutting down and
removing all overgrown foliage and maintain the grounds; (vi) removing all trash and debris
including old shipping containers; (vii) installing and maintaining lighting to illuminate the
property; installing and maintaining Project Green Light cameras and supporting
infrastructure.

Section 7.02(d) indicates the City will consult with FCA on corporate income tax policy tax
reforms that encourage manufacturing in the City and to develop legislation to be passed at the
state level.

Section 7.02(e) indicates the City will devote the resources as may be necessary to optimize
traffic ?ow around the Project, the JNAP Retooling Project and the immediate surrounding area,
including but not limited to portions of Conner Street right-of-way between I-94 and efferson-
Conner intersection. The efforts shall include the relocation of bike lanes to the easternmost
lanes of Conner Street only.

Section 7.02(i) indicates the City to the extent permitted by law and the extent covered by
insurance proceeds, indemni?es, defends and save harmless FCA from any and all losses arising
out of a claim by a third party, except those to the extent caused by gross negligence or willful
misconduct of FCA, that may be imposed or asserted against FCA by reason of any of the
following prior to the issuance of the Certi?cate of Completion: any negligent or tortious act
or omission of City in the performance of its obligations under the Agreement resulting in
personal injury, bodily injury, sickness, disease or death, or injury to or destruction of tangible
property including loss of use; (ii) any failure by City to perform its obligations under this
Agreement. The City?s total liability under this Section shall be limited to $3 million and any
defense cost shall be payable from Payments to be deposited in the City 
liability Escrow.

Section 7.03(a) indicates that FCA shall use commercially reasonable efforts to issue purchase
orders in connections with the construction of real estate improvement that comprise the Project

17

in order to comply with the Executive Orders, as applicable. Failure of CA to comply shall not
constitute a breach of the Agreement or Event of Default. DBRA and City?s sole remedy shall
be obligation to comply with any recourse available under the City?s Executive Orders.

Section 7.03(b) indicates the from and after the Effective Date, FCA agrees to begin within 90
days to complete applicable construction activities to the point where commencing operations to
the Mack Assembly Plant by no later than the Project Completion Date subject to Force

Maj cure, any Delayed Acquisition (not caused by FCA Default or the to timely
perform their respective obligations). If unexpected setbacks in construction and/or materially
adverse economic changes cause FCA to require additional time to complete the Project and
provide Operations Notice, FCA may in its sole and absolute discretion, extend the Project Date
and accordingly, the time period for providing such Operations Notice30, by one year by
providing Notice to DBRA and the City by no later than September 30, 2022. The Project consist
of an investment by FCA of $1.6 billion and is intended to create approximately 3,850 net new
full-time employees.

FCA shall, indemnify defend and save harmless the City and DBRA from any and all losses
arising out of a claim by a third party, excluding all losses caused by gross negligence or willful
misconduct of City and DBRA, that may be imposed or asserted against the City or DBRA by
reason of any of the following prior to the issuance of the Certi?cate of Completion: any
negligent or tortious act or omission of FCA in the performance of its obligations under the
Agreement resulting in personal injury, bodily injury, sickness, disease or death, or injury to or
destruction of tangible property including loss of use; (ii) any failure by FCA to perform its
obligations under this Agreement.

Section 7.03 (0) indicates the JNAP Retooling Project will represent an investment by FCA of
$900 million and create approximately 1,100 net new full-time employees.

Section 7.03(d) indicates that providing the terms of this provision are permissible under any
collective bargaining agreement entered into by FCA including the UAW Contract, FCA will use
good faith efforts to provide Detroit Residents the opportunity to apply for Production Jobs as set
forth in this Section.

Under the Initial Application Process, the Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation (DESC) as
the implementation partner of Detroit At Work has agreed to support talent needs
regarding recruiting, pre-screening and vetting, and work-readiness training related to Production
Jobs. The City will cause DESC to provide such support in-kind with a value of at least $2
million. FCA will work with DESC to develop a mutually agreeable initial application process
that give Detroit residents the opportunity to apply for Production Jobs, subject however to FCA
providing priority to UAW Candidates?.

Section indicates that while priority will be given to the UAW Candidates, FCA
will in cooperation with DESC open speci?ed windows exclusively for Detroit Residents
(anticipated to be 1-2 weeks) to apply for Production Jobs: (A) first to Detroit Residents in the
geographic area most impacted by the Project in zip codes 48213, 48214 and 48215 (included

 

3? Operations Notice means the Notice to be provided by FCA to DBRA when CA certi?es that it has commenced
vehicle production at the Mack Assembly Plant.
3 UAW Candidates means certain individuals in accordance with the UAW Contract.

18

will be individuals who have successfully completed that DESC readiness program which
include those who have a criminal convictions and military veterans); (B) second, to all other
Detroit Residents and those similarly situated individuals under (A). DESC will provide a list of
individuals that fall into the priority categories and otherwise meet the basic
requirements.

Section indicates that while priority will be given to the UAW Candidates, after the
initial application process is complete, FCA will prioritize hiring for quali?ed Detroit Residents.
DESC will provide a list of DESC Candidates who meet basic job requirements. If DESC
fails to meet the standards speci?ed in subsection if DESC is unable to cure the de?ciency
within 90 days after FCA provides written notice, obligation to work with DESC will
cease. If at any time DESC fails to provide the requested list within 2 working days of 
request, or if any such requested list does not include a suf?cient number of DESC Candidates,
the FCA may use its regular hiring processes to identify and hire any candidates, in order to meet
business needs until such time as DESC provides the requested list.

Section 7.03 indicates FCA agrees to permit DBRA to construct the St. Jean Barrier on
Parcels 8, 8A and 8B at sole cost and expense using the Municipal Project Funds.
DBRA shall use commercially reasonable efforts to expedite the construction of the St. Jean
Barrier, construction of the St. Jean Barrier is to be completed prior to paving of Parcel
the DBRA is unable to complete the construction of the Barrier prior to
conveyance to FCA, then DBRA shall be permitted under the terms of the DBRA Access
Agreement to access and use of those areas of Parcels required
for DBRA to construct the Barrier with the objective of completing such construction no later
than one year after the Effective Date.

Section 7.03(k) indicates that beginning on the Effective Date, FCA covenants and agrees to
comply within 15 days following the request from DBRA for information in its possession
relating to the environmental condition of the Mack plant Property and evidence of eligible
activities and the incurrence of eligible costs, as de?ned under the Brown?eld Redevelopment
Act. FCA shall provide DBRA with access to the Mack Plant Property to conduct environmental
testing as may be required to include the Mack plant property in the Brown?eld Plan.

Section 7.03(m) indicates from the Effective Date until the Monitoring Termination Date (except
for a Permitted Transfer) FCA shall not convey or transfer any fee simple interest in any Parcel
without prior written consent of the DBRA, except if CA provides DBRA Notice and
information that the conveyance or transfer of such Parcel will result in business, commercial
and/or industrial use (for parking, storage, vehicle marshalling or logistics) of the Parcel within
12 months of the date of conveyance or transfer; or (ii) commencement of a project for any such
business, commercial and/or industrial use of the Parcel within 12 months of conveyance or
transfer. If at any time prior to the Monitoring Termination Date (Except for a Permitted
Transfer) FCA desires to convey or transfer fee simple interest in any Parcel with 
consent as stated above, FCA may negotiate and enter into a purchase and sale agreement. FCA
shall provide DBRA the price to be paid to FCA and Parcel Capital Expenses. Upon Conveyance
of the Parcel FCA shall pay DBRA 75% of the Net Cash Proceeds from the sale but only to the

19

extent the cumulative Annual City Revenue32 which the City is then in receipt is less than the
Monitoring Investment Value.

Section 7.03(n) indicates if at any time from the Effective Date until the latter of (1) the
Monitoring Termination Date or (2) ?fteen years from the Effective Date there is a Permanent
Plant Shutdown and no conveyance or transfer under Subsection 7.03(m) with respect to Parcel
12, then the City shall have the option to purchase Parcel 12. At any time within one year
following the receipt by the City of Notice form FCA of a Permanent Plant Shutdown to exercise
the option to purchase Parcel 12 at fair market value.

Article 10 Project Completion

Section 10.01 indicates when FCA considers all work required of CA regarding the Mack Plant
Property and Parcels 8, 8A, and 8B, FCA shall apply for and the City if the application
and the City?s inspections are reasonably satisfactory to the City, shall issue the Operative
Certi?cate of Occupancy.

Section 10.04 indicates on or before September 1 of each year in which the City receives a
Project Data Report from FCA, the City shall calculate the Annual City Revenue. The City shall
produce and Annual City Revenue Report and submit such to the Detroit City Council no later
than October 1 of each year. The Annual City Revenue Report shall also include the cumulative
Annual City Revenue for all years following the Effective Date.

Section 10.04(d) indicates that if on the Monitoring Termination Date, the Cumulative Annual
City Revenue stated in all Annual City Revenue Reports is less than the Monitoring Investment
Value, FCA shall pay the City the shortfall within thirty days of receipt of receipt of an invoice
from the City, less the sum of any amounts that FCA was required to expend for the Project
where the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds, subject to the MPF Limit, were inadequate
to fund obligations of the (ii) Subject any damages incurred by FCA for an Event of
Default which claim was not paid because the damages exceeded the Then Remaining
Municipal Project Funds, subject to the MPF Limit; any and all Net Cash Proceeds received
by under Section and (iv) any ?nes and/or penalties FCA is required to pay
under the Executive Orders. These will be used as set offs against any shortfall FCA is required
to pay regarding the Monitoring Investment Value.

Section 10.04(e) indicates the City or the DBRA (but not both at the same audit period) shall
have the right to audit, or engage a quali?ed non-contingency based third?party to audit the
Project Data Report no more than once per calendar year and for no more than two immediately
prior calendar years. In the event that such audit discloses that the Annual City Revenue has been
underestimated or overestimated by more than 2.5% due to inaccuracy of data provided in 
Project Data Report, the Annual City Report for such year shall be corrected.

Article XI Default and Remedies

 

33 The Annual City Revenue means the total amount of projected revenue to the City from the Sources described in
Exhibit 10.04

20

Section 11.01 indicates in the Event of Default the non-defaulting party is entitled to the rights
and remedies set forth in Sections 11.02 and 11.03. If a party defaults in the performance if its
material obligations and the default continues for a period of twenty days after notice from the
non?defaulting party, no Event of Default shall occur if the failure can be cured within twenty
days and the defaulting party diligently pursues such cure to completion within a reasonable time
not to exceed sixty days. If any representation or warranty made by the parties proves to be
inaccurate or misleading in any material respect that impacts the Project for twenty days after
Notice from the non-defaulting party they can be corrected by disclosures on appropriate exhibits
which may be updated prior to Closing on an impacted Parcel.

Section 11.02(a) indicates the remedies of the City and DBA upon an Event of Default by FCA
under Subsections 7.03 (Executive Orders), 7.03(d) (Mack Assembly Plant Application
Process), 7.03(m) (Resale of Parcels), 7.03(m) (Permanent Plant Shutdown), Section 10.04
(Monitoring Revenue Generation), and Section 11.03 Project Default, the parties shall
continue to perform and submit the matter ti arbitration under the terms set forth in Section 13.10
and the sole remedy shall be the right to seek recovery of direct damages under section
12.02 and the limitations in Section 12.03.

Section 11.02(b) indicate the remedies for an Event of Default for FCA, the parties shall
continue to perform and submit the mater to arbitration. remedies shall be limited to 
the right to seek recovery of direct damages under Section 12.02 and the limitations of 12.03 and
12.04, (ii) seek speci?c performance of the Agreement, seek injunctive relief (to the extent
specific performance or injunctive relief does not cause total cost to exceed the Then
Remaining Municipal Project Funds, Subject to the MPF Limit, unless the specific performance
is limited to the transfer of a Parcel for the DBRA to FCA in which case it will not be limited to
the Then Remaining Municipal Project Funds.

Section 11.03 indicates, in the event of a Project Default, as determined solely by arbitration, the
City and sole remedy is the right to reverter of title, or as to Direct Transfer Parcel,
conveyance of title under the Grant of Rights to Parcels conveyed and to terminate any Interim
Parcel Lease the may have with FCA. Subsection 11.02(a) and 11.02(b) does not
apply to any Event Default under Subsections 7.03(d) (Mack Assembly Plant
Application Process), 7.03(m) Resale, 7.03 (11) (Permanent Plant Shutdown) or 10.04 (Monitoring
Revenue Generation).

The shall have as there sole and exclusive remedy for an Event of Default 7.03(d)
(Mack Assembly Plant Application Process), 7.03 Resale, 7.03(m) (Permanent Plant
Shutdown) is speci?c performance of the agreement and/or seek injunctive relief as well as
recover all reasonable out of pocket cost incurred in enforcing its rights, subject to limitations set
forth in 12.03. The sole remedy for the for an Event Default under Section 10.04
(Monitoring Revenue Generation) are set forth in that subsection. The sole remedy for the
for failure to comply with the Executive Orders is the recourse outlined in the
Executive orders.

Article XII Limitation of Damages

Section 12.02 indicates the sole and damages recoverable against each party by reason of Event
of Default (except as provided in Section 11.03 and expressly excluding the Community Benefits

21

Agreement and Public Act 198 abatement agreements) shall be limited to reimbursement of the
direct and documented out-of-pocket damages. Expenses and costs incurred by the party as a
result of the breach or failure to comply and the parties disclaim and waive the right to recover
any other damages, including without limitation, punitive, exemplary, damages that result from
any application of multipliers, consequential and/or punitive damages.

Section 12.03 indicates maximum liability that arises out of DBRA and/or
the City breach of any representation or warranty contained in the Agreement or any documents
delivered by DBRA or the City under the terms of the Agreement or at Closing, or (ii) the gross
negligence, fraud, willful misconduct of the City and/or DBRA in the performance of their
respective obligation under the Agreement shall not be limited to the Then Remaining Municipal
Project Funds but shall not exceed the sum of any remaining Municipal Project Funds and 
Three million dollars in the aggregate which shall come from payment or at 
election Real Property Equivalent. In no event shall the liability of the City under the Agreement
exceed the sum of $3 million. Nothing in the Agreement shall be read to abrogate 
obligation to use third-party insurance proceeds to meet tis indemni?cation obligations which
shall not be subject to the $3 million maximum.

Section 12.03 indicates the maximum liability for breach of its obligations (except as
otherwise provided) for any damages incurred by DBRA and/or City arising out of breach by
FCA for breach of any representation or warranty contained in the Agreement or
documents delivered by CA under the Agreement or closing, or (ii) the gross negligence, fraud,
willful misconduct of FCA in the performance of its obligation under the Agreement shall not
exceed $3 million.

Section 12.04 indicates that upon receipt by the DBRA or City of Notice of a 
liability and the absence of CA election to satisfy the liability with the Real Property
Equivalent, the City and DBRA shall enter into an Escrow Agreement with a ?nancial institution
(agreed upon by the parties) for the purpose of establishing an escrow account for the purpose of
holding Payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3 million. The 
Liability Escrow Agreement shall set forth the terms, conditions and procedures for the receipt
and custody of the Payments and the release thereof to FCA in satisfaction of
liability.

LPD has continued in our efforts to obtain more information regarding the FCA project by
submitting questions to the Administration and have attached the responses to this report.

22

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

May 6, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Sale of Real Property at 11386 Mettetal

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit Flaming and Development Department has received an offer
?'om Malaysia Maclin (?Purchaser?) requesting the conveyance by the City of Detroit of real
property having a street address of 11386 Mettetal, Detroit, MI 48227 (the ?Froperty?), for the
purchase price of Three Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 

The Purchaser previously rented the home from a prior owner. The prior owner is now deceased
and the City acquired the property tax foreclosed from Wayne County. The Property consists of a
single family residence situated on an area of land measuring approximately 4340 square feet
and zoned R1 (Single Family Residential).

The Purchaser wishes to acquire the property as her primary residence. The Purchaser?s use of
the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body approve the sale and authorize the Director Of
the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized designee, to issue a quit claim deed
to the Property and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale, with
Malaysia Maclin, for the amount of $3,000.00.

Respectfully Submitted,

QWz?r/??zfa

Janet Attari an
Deputy Director
Flaming Development Department



cc: Egtephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
I

ll

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 11386 Mettetal, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, Malaysia Maclin (the ??Purchaser?), for
the purchase price of Three Thousand and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) One Hundred Eighty and 00/ 100 Dollars ($180.00) shall be paid to the DBA from
the sale proceeds, 2) One Hundred Fifty and 00/ 100 Dollars ($150.00) shall be paid to the 
real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two
Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS
Pr0perty situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

METTETAL LOT 1261 FRISCHKORNS GRAND-DALE SUB N0 2 L52 P2 PLATS, 
22/195 35 124

a/k/a 11386 Mettetal
Tax Parcel ID 22059745

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

fl 
c~ 
Basil Sarim, P.S.

Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

(titty of EBetruit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LDPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Lewand, Group Executive, Jobs and Economy Team, City of Detroit
Ron Stallworth, State and Local Government Relations, FCA US LLC

THRU: Council President Brenda Jones

FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez (if 
DATE: May 13, 2019

RE: Requests Regarding the FCA Expansion Project

 

Following the discussion about the proposed Fiat Automobiles expansion of the Jefferson
North and Mack Engine Assembly Plants at the Planning and Economic Development Committee
on Thursday, May 9th, I submit the following requests to the Administration and FCA US LLC:

1) Removal of SW Detroit properties from the land sale and transfer with Crown Enterprises
(see endnote for rationale by parcel)?:
a. ?Bridge Area? (1.9 acres)
b. West Grand Toledo (3600 Toledo, acres)
c. Springwells Industrial Park (1420 Springwells, 28.5 acres)

2) Increase the current buffering plan along the Western expansion of the site to re?ect the best
practices as described by Community Action to Promote Healthy Environments 

a. Vegetative Buffer Toolkit found at: 
health/buffer-toolkit/

b. Great Lakes Environmental Law Center (GLELC) Vegetative Buffer Design
Recommendations (pages 19-20 attached)

3) Increase the home improvement program funds related to this project to provide a per-
household cap of $40,000 (up from $15,000) to ensure that each qualified house can
mitigate sound and air pollution with new windows and air filtration systems. Properly
retrofittin homes in the host community is essential to limiting the impact of the increased
VOC emissions anticipated from the enlarged plant footprint (expected 382.5 ton increase).

4) Provide all 8 schools within 1 mile ofthe project site with the funds to retro?t the buildings
with air filtration systems in order to protect the health of children, families, and teachers.

a. Estimated cost is $300k - $500k per school for a total investment of $2.4 - $4 million

5) Include a written commitment from DPD to enforce the designated truck routes and anti-
idling to ensure that increased truck traf?c does not include trucks using neighborhood
streets.

6) A stronger commitment to hiring Detroiters, with a measureable benchmark of 
Detroiters hired or of new jobs filled by Detroiters within a defined period of time.

7) Stronger clawbacks and land-reverters back to the city if the plant(s) close or if FCA fails to
meet their hiring commitments.

 

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone:313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189
33' 

(11in of Eetroit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

In addition to the above requests to be included in any agreement between the City of Detroit and
FCA US LLC, I also request the following documents be provided to Council and the Public:

A

B.



D.

E.

Land appraisal and/or formula for determining the value of properties being acquired by the
City or transferred from the City for this project

The property exchange agreement and the FCA/Crown letter referred to in the Development
Agreement

The current terms and conditions of lease of the former Budd plant site from Crown
Report on the status of all Crown and Moroun-owned property in the City of Detroit tax
status, blight violations, etc.)

Breakdown of jobs to be created by FCA and the anticipated salary range and qualifications

Please do not hesitate to contact my of?ce if you have any questions. Thank you.

Cc:

I-lonorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

 

?Rationale for requesting the exclusion of these properties from any land transfer with Crown from
the above (la. 

a.

?Bridge Area? (1.9 acres): These parcels have been the focal point of ongoing conflict
between the Bridge Company?s gradual move Eastward in that neighborhood, specifically
with their potential illegal encroachment onto parcels being requested on 20th and St. Anne
Street, which has been met with ardent opposition from the community.

West Grand Toledo (3600 Toledo, 3.1 acres): This land transfer would be in direct
conflict with the City?s own W. Vernor planning study. The planning department presented
this parcel as the target of a down-zoning to facilitate its future as a mixed?use development.
Additionally, we have received frequent complaints over the years of improper truck traf?c
along Toledo from Crown?s neighboring truck facility. This move would seem to only
exacerbate those concerns.

Springwells Industrial Park (1420 Springwells, 28.5 acres): This large property is
currently under lease to the Windsor-Detroit Bridge Authority through 2025 for staging and
construction. Outreach from the city to the WDBA was only initiated yesterday. Given the
city?s track record ofworking with the Canadians to move the forward, this
transaction seems counterintuitive. It is likely that some components of the bridge
construction will continue past 2025. if this happens, this could trigger additional payments
from the city to Crown or cause additional delays in construction of Gordie Howe, which
Crown?s owners have sought repeatedly to stop over the last decade.

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


 Hen
vegeienvelianietennielhe

  

Vegetative Buffers and Roadways

Another major source of urban air pollution
are emissions from cars and trucks. Similar
to industrial facilities, the variations in
roadway design can signi?cantly impact the
effectiveness of a vegetative buffer.

For example. a vegetative buffer In a downtown
roadway that has tall buildings on either sides
(commonly referred to as a "street canyon?) will
have a different effect than a similarly designed
buffer along an Open freeway.

Regarding "street canyons." numerous studies have
found that the presence of trees tends to increase
air pollution concentration.? This is due to trees
causing a reduction in air exchange between the
air above the roofand the air within the canyon,

Height

Studies have suggested that vegetative barriers
must be at least 13 feet tall to effectively limit
downwind concentrations of auto related air
pollution? A vegetative buffer with a height lower
than 13 feet risks allowing pollutants to pass over

 

aibasi

13 ll



16-35211

THICK



 

SCIENTIFIC SUPPORT

which leads to an accumulation of pollutants nside
the street canyon.? However, hedges plantec
along the side of a street in a street canyon rray
reduce pollutant concentrations in footpath
areas.?

Comparatively, vegetative buffers may reduce

air pollution concentrations nearby open
roadways.31 in general, the design characterislcs
of an effective vegetative buffer in the contexI

of an open roadway and an industrial facility
with a low emission point are similar. As detai ed
below, a vegetative buffer in these contexts rr ust
be tall, thick, dense, and continuous to achieE
the greatest i?EdUCthl?iS in downwind poliutart
concentrations.?

the buffer unimpeded??1 Particularly for indusrial
facilities, it's important to note that an increase
in height may be necessary to effectively cont?oi
pollution with an emissions point that is above
ground-level.

East?A?ulthacv, Kumar, P.. Gallagher, 1., McNabola, A., Baldauf. R.. F.. Broaderlck. 3.. Di Sabatlno. Pulvlrentl, a. 2017. Air
Pollution Abatement Performances of Green Infrastructure in Open Road and Built-Up Street Canyon Environments - A Revlrw.

Atmospheric Environment.
29 Id.
30 id.

31 Richard Baldauf. Roadside Vegetation Design to improve Local, Near-Road Air Quality, Transp. Res. D. Transp. Environ.. May -. 2017;
52(11): 354-361, available at rticles/PMC6060415/

32 id.

33 SteffensJT. Wang Zhang KM. 2012. Exploration of effects of a vegetation barrier on particle size distributions In a near-road
environment. Atmospheric Environment. Vol 50'. pp. 120-123; Al-Dabbous AN and Kumar P, 2014 The in?uence of roadside
vegetation barriers on airborne and pedestrians exposure under varying wind conditions. Atmospheric Environment,
90, pp 113-124; Brantley HL, Hagler 65W, Deshmukh Baldauf RW. 2014. Field assessment of the effects of roadside vegeatlon
on near-road black carbon and particulate matter. Science of the Total Environment. Vol 468-469: pp. 120-129

34 Richard Baldauf. Roadside Vegetation Design to Improve Local, Near-Road Air Quality, Transp. Res. D. Transp. Environ., May 2017;
52(11): 3544161, available at 

VEGETATIVE BUFFERS AND TREE. CANOPY: Promoting the Use of Trees to Improve Local Air Quality with Local Policy 19




0.
n.

U)

II.


LLI



 



20

Thickness

A vegetative buffer must be sufficiently thick

to reduce turbulence and wind speed, and to
effectively intercept particulate matter pollution.
Studies have found vegetation must be at least

16 4 to 32 feet thick to act as an effective vegetative
buffer.35 Additionally, the vegetation must have
sufficient density. Denser vegetation generally
leads to increased pollution reductions.36 The type
and species of vegetation may also impact the
thickness of a vegetative buffer. For example. a
deciduous tree that loses its leaves in the winter
will not serve as an effective vegetative buffer in

Continuity

Gaps in vegetation. whether due to porosity

of vegetation or missing trees, may cause
pollutant emissions to funnel through the gaps
and stagnate.? Therefore, gaps in a vegetative
buffer can cause air pollution concentrations to
increase rather than decrease.43 It?s important for
a vegetative buffer to maintain both horizontal and
Vertical continuity. Regarding vertical continuity,
an effective vegetative buffer should maintain full,
dense coverage from the ground to the top ofthe
buffer To achieve this vertical continuity. multiple
rows of different types of vegetation, including
trees and shrubs of a variety of heights, may be

 

the winter months due to its lack of foliage.37 In
general, coniferous plants are more effective
since they are not subject to significant seasonal
changes.33 Additionally, some trees and shrubs are
more effective at pollution removal than Others.?
Trees and shrubs with waxy and/or hairy surfaces
have been shown to more effectively remove
particulates compared to smooth leafsurfaces.4D
Lastly. incorporating a solid built barrier, such as
a wall, with a vegetative buffer has been shown to
result in lower ultrafine particle concentrations.?

necessary. Regarding horizontal continuity, an
effective vegetative buffer must extend beyond
the area of concern. Otherwise, it is possible for
emissions to migrate around the buffer and cause
elevated concentrations of air pollution. Studies
have found that a vegetative buffer should extend
at least 164 feet beyond ihe area of concern

in order to maximize air pollution reductions.?i
However, if this is not feasible, increasing the
height of the vegetative buffer and wrapping it
completely around the vulnerable land use may be
an effective alternative.45

35 Neft l. Scungio M. Culver N, and Singh S, 2016. Simulations of Aerosol Filtration by Vegetation: Validation of Existing Models with
Available Lab data and Application to Near-Roadway Scenario. Aerosol Science and Technology. Vol. 50, Issue 9; pp. 937-946.

36 Richard Baldauf, Roadside Vegetation Design to improve Local, Near-Road Air Quality. Transp. Res D. Transp Environ, May 4, 2017;
52(11): 354-361, available Baldauf RW, Thoma E, A, Isakov V, Bowker G, Long T. 2008. Impacts ofnolse barriers on near-road air quality. Atmospheric

Environment. Vol 42: pp. 7502-7507.

42 Richard Baldauf. Roadside Vegetation Design to Improve Local, Near-Road Air Quality, Transp. Res. D. Transp. Environ. May 4. 2017;
52(11it354-361, available at 

43 Id.

44 Baldauf Rw, lsakov V, Deshmukh Venkatram A, Yang Zhang KM. 2016. Influence ofsolid noise barriers on near-road and on-

road air quality. Atmospheric Environment. Vol 129: pp 265-276.

45 Brantley HL, Hagler GSW. Deslumukh PG, Baltlauf RW, 2014. Field assessment of the effects of roadside vegetation on near-road
black carbon and particulate matter Science of the Total Environment. Vol. 468-469: pp. 120-129.

MEMORANDUM

TO: Detroit Police Chief James E. Craig
Detroit Police Department

Lawrence Garcia
Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit- Law department

FROM: Roy McCalister, Jr., Councilmm@d
City of Detroit

DATE: May 15, 2019

RE: Questions regarding Settlement of Lawsuit of NiKita Smith et a1; verses the City of Detroit
Case No.: 16-11882; File No.: L-16-00328

1- Please explain how many surveillance(s) or controlled buys were made at the location of 18488
Sussex on January 14, 2016 prior to the raid?

2- Please explain why the house was raided. Was it with the expectation of a large sum of narcotics
was expected on the premise?

3- Please explain why not one of the off. Did that automatically dismiss the case?
4- Did any of?cer attempt to re?schedule the case (ticket) for court? If not, why not?

5- Is there any explanation as to the difference from the informant?s information of one small dog on
the premise verses the three larger dogs actually on the premise?

Sincerely,

Roy McCalister, Jr.
Detroit City Council
CC:
City Clerk
Gail Fulton, Mayor?s Of?ce

MARY SHEFFIELD

 


City of EBBtroit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE

DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

TI-IRU:

DATE:
RE:

Donald Rancher, Director, Housing and Revitalization Department

Council President Pro Tempore I- .. he?ield, Chair, Neighborhoods and

Community Services Commi 

   
 
 

James Tate, Chair, Planning an nomic Development Committee
May 14, 2019

Noti?cation Ordinance Update

 

It has been more than a year since City Council passed an ordinance requiring
noti?cation to residents when the affordability period expires.

Please provide a report listing all housing developments that have expiring subsidized
affordability from the years 2018-19. Please indicate which projects fall under the
jurisdiction of the ordinance, and how the ordinance was or will be enforced.

Please contact Ari Ruttenberg at 313-224-4505 if you have any questions.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


 

(?in of ?etroit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

'10: James Tate, Chair, Plarming and Economic Deve10pment Committee

FROM: Council President Pro TemporeM he?ield, Chair, Neighborhoods and
Community Services Committe

DATE: May 14, 2019
RE: Affordable Housing Task Force Resolution

 

Please refer the attached Affordable Housing Task Force Resolution to the Planning and
Economic Development Committee. Please contact Ari Ruttenberg at 313-224-4505 if
you have any questions.

Thank you

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


A Resolution Creating the Detroit City Council
Affordable Housing Taskforce

Presented By: Council President Pro-Tempore Mary Shef?eld

WHEREAS The Affordable Housing Task Force will focus on promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of the City through the
implementation of housing goals, objectives and policies that support
economically integrated housing opportunities in the development or
rehabilitation of housing.

WHEREAS The Affordable Housing Task Force will also advocate on behalf of all
residents within the City including but not limited to those with
disabilities, those of moderate and low income as well as those who are
homeless; NOW THEREFORE BE lT

RESOLVED That the Detroit City Council by this resolution creates the Detroit City
Council Affordable Housing Task Force of Council President Pro-
Tempore Mary Shef?eld until December 20l9 at which time the Task
Force pursuant to City Council Rules shall submit a report with its annual
renewal resolution detailing how its goals and objectives have been met in
the previous calendar year and any other relevant information to the
Detroit City Council and the City Clerk?s Of?ce; and BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED That the Affordable Housing Task Force shall consist of representatives
from a disability rights organization, fair housing experts, developers of
extremely low income housing, an organization representing people
experiencing homelessness, and/or affordable housing policy experts; and

BE IT FURTHER

RESOLVED That the Affordable Housing Task Force will be chaired by Council
President Pro-Tempore Mary Sheffield or her designee; AND BE IT
FURTHER

RESOLVED That the Affordable Housing Task Force meetings are open to the public;

with dates, times, and locations to be noticed by the Detroit City Clerk.

