5- 14 

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

9" 
OFFICE OF CONTRACTING 

AND PROCUREMENT

May 10, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6000228 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1~ To Continue Services for HOME
Investor and CDBG Compliance Monitoring for City of Detroit
Developments Funded by US Housing and Urban Development. 
Contractor: National Consulting Services, LLC Location: 400
Renaissance Center, Ste. 2600, Detroit, MI 48243 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through June 30, 2021 Contract Increase:
$276,000.00 ?Total Contract Amount: $756,900.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000228 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 14, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

339
OFFICE OF CONTRACTING 

AND PROCUREMENT

May 10,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6002053 100% City Funding To Provide Professional Landscape Architecture,
Flaming, and Urban Design to Build Upon the Conceptual Framework for
the Old Redford Land Stewardship Greenway Neighborhood Design
and Implementation Plan for NW Grand River Neighborhood. 
Contractor: Land Collective, LLC Location: 57 North 2nd Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19106 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through May 7, 2020 ?Total Contract Amount: $273,555.50.
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002053 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 14, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

\g 

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING 9

AND PROCUREMENT

May 10, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002125 100% City Funding To Provide an Agreement to Manages the City's Grow
Detroit's Young Talent Program and Project Clean Slate through the FCA
Community Based Project with the City of Detroit. Contractor: Detroit
Employment Solutions Location: 440 E. Congress Suite 400, Detroit, MI
48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through June 30,
2019 Total Contract Amount: $620,000.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002125 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 14, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

   




g: COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
i - . DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

1% PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT k/z FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT ROITMI Gov

 

 

 

May 10,2019

Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center

Detroit, Michigan

Re: Proposed Ordinance To Amend Chapter 50 Of The 1984 Detroit City Code,
Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing,
Extending, Vacating, Naming and Renaming ofStreets, by Repealing Division 3,
Secondary Naming of Streets.

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the request of Council Member James Tate, the above-referenced ordinance is
being submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. This proposed ordinance will repeal
Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places, Article VII,
Opening, Closing, Extending, Vacating, Naming and Renaming of Streets, by repealing Division
3, Secondary Naming of Streets, which consists of Section 50-7-21 through Section 50-7-46, to
repeal provisions of the City Code related to the assignment of secondary street names.

We are available to answer any questions that you may have concerning this proposed
ordinance.

Thank you for your consideration.

Respectfully,

Tonja .LKong
Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets,
Sidewalks and Other Public Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Vacating, Naming,
and Renaming of Streets, by repealing Division 3, Secondary Naming of Streets, which consists of
Section 50-7-21 through Section 50-7-46, to remove the process of assignment of a secondary
street sign.

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks
and Other Public Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Vacating, Naming, and
Renaming of Streets, by repealing Division 3, Secondary Naming 0f Streets, which consists of
Section 50-7-21 through Section 50-7?46, to remove the process of assignment of a secondary
street sign.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Article VII, Division 3, Section 507-21 through Section 50?7-46, be repealed as follows:

CHAPTER 50. STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
ARTICLE VII. OPENING, CLOSING, EXTENDING, WIDENING, VACATING,

NAMING, AND RENAMING OF STREETS AND ASSIGN IN SECONDARY NAMES

REPEALED.

TO STREETS.

 

REPEALED.

I 
. 

 

by?khe?pei?i?l?iene? REPEALED.

 

REPEALED.
Seesaw-2540440? Reserved. REPEALED.
I 1 =agrignmemafrernnel?l'y


 

REPEALED.

 

REPEA LED.

 

REPEALED.

 

REPEALED.

REPEALED.

 

. REPEALED.

 

 

REPEALED.

 

g3, ?JairH?FeH-y?

. REPEALED.

 

REPEALED.

REPEALED.

REPEALED.

 
 
 

WW REPEALED.

10

D-

 

 

 

. REPEALED.

10

11

Secs. 50-7-21 50-7-50 Reserved.

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by a two?thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4?1 18(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is
passed by less than two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become
effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4?118(2) of the 2012
Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

.

Lawrence T. Garcia a . AI. ?a a 

Corporation Counsel 0 6 VJ {7 a?f f4/(

11

Chairperson

are??
Alton James alt? Bf @71 Brenda Goss Andrews

Lisa Whitmore Davis

Lauren Hood, MCD

Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.

Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

May 10, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Mr. aJuan Thomas to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 77 of the 1984
Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a B4 (General Business District)
zoning classi?cation where an R1 (Single-family Residential District) zoning
classi?cation currently exists on one (1) parcel commonly identi?ed as 11620 Westwood
Avenue, generally bounded by Wadsworth Avenue to the north, Chesapeake and Ohio
Railway to the east, Plymouth Rd. to the south and Westwood Avenue to the west.
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

NATURE OF REQUEST AND PROJECT PROPOSAL

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has completed its review and deliberations on the request
of Mr. aJ uan Thomas to show a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation where an
R1 (Single-family Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one (1) parcel
commonly identi?ed as 11620 Westwood Avenue, generally bounded by Wadsworth Avenue to
the north, Chesapeake and Ohio Railway to the east, Plymouth Rd. to the south and Westwood
Avenue to the west.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment of a ?Store of a
generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new merchandise? at
11620, 1 1610 and 11600 Westwood Avenue. The proposed retail use would be permitted on a
by-right basis in the proposed B4 zoning classi?cation per Sec. 8) as a by-right retail
use.

BACKGROUND

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has received a request from Mr. aJuan Thomas
requesting the City of Detroit to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 77 of Chapter 61 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? to show a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation
where an R1 (Single?family Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one (1)
parcel commonly identi?ed as 11620 Westwood Avenue, generally bounded by Wadsworth 
Avenue to the north, Chesapeake and Ohio Railway to the east, Plymouth Road to the south and 
Westwood Avenue to the west. '01

The subject property is located in Council District 7 and measures less than half an acre in area. 23":
The parcel commonly identi?ed as 11620 Westwood Avenue is currently under a lease to own i 

Page 1 of 5

agreement between Mr. Thomas and the Harvey Goldberg Trust, which gives the applicant legal
standing to pursue the requested rezoning.

The subject property is located in Census Tract 5468. Based on the most recent census data, the
total population for the area is 3,171. There are approximately 1,173 occupied residential units
and 480 vacant residential structures which results in a vacancy rate of 29%.

Proposed Development

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment of a ?Store of a
generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new merchandise? at
11620, 11610 and 11600 Westwood Avenue. The proposed retail use would be permitted on a
by?right basis in the proposed B4 zoning classi?cation per Sec. 61 -9-76(38) as a by-right retail
use.

SURROUNDING LAND USE AND ZONING
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: Single-family Residential along Westwood Avenue.

East: Vacant Industrial Site.

South: Vacant Land.

West: R1 Single-family Residential Vinny?s Beer and Wine.

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING OTHER COMMUNITY
MEETINGS

Prior to the submittal of the petitioner?s application CPC staff, along with the petitioner?s
representative, Mr. Mike Semma reached out to several adjacent property owners and residents
in an effort to inform them of the pending rezoning request. Residents of the subject block of
Westwood Avenue conducted a community meeting, at which the rezoning request was
discussed. As a result of the meeting approximately seven residents have voiced their support
for the proposed rezoning, citing that they are excited about additional retail offerings along
Plymouth Road, and that they would rather see general retail on the three subject parcels slated
for development, rather than the illegal dumping which currently occurs.

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS
On January 31, 2019, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on this request. There
were no members of the public in attendance to address the rezoning request.

The Commission requested that staff reach out to the established neighborhood association to
inform them of the requested rezoning and pending development and to solicit feedback. With
the assistance of Commissioner Webb, contact was made with the Weathersby neighborhood
association in this regard.

MASTER PLAN CONFORMANCE

The subject site is located within the Cody area of Neighborhood Cluster 7 of the Detroit Master
Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Light Industrial? for the subject
property. The Planning and Development Department has submitted a report dated
January 28, 2019 which states in part:

Page 2 of5

?While the project use is not industrial in nature, it does sit within a region bound by similar
uses also operating under B4 zoning classi?cations. The proposed district rezoning conforms to
the City?s Master Plan of Policies. 

ANALYSIS

The proposed zoning classi?cation of B4 would permit the requested uses of general retail or
standard or carry-out restaurants on a by?right basis. The proposed B4 zoning classi?cation
would permit 74 by-right public, civic, institutional, retail, service, commercial, manufacturing,
industrial and other uses, compared to the 5 permitted by right uses in the existing R1 zoning
classi?cation. The most intensive uses in the B4 zoning classi?cation includes ?Motor vehicle
services? inclusive of repair and steam cleaning. However, staff will note that many automotive
related uses would not be able to achieve licensure, given the Mayor?s moratorium which is
scheduled to go into effect on April 1, 2019.

The following analysis details how the proposed rezoning either meets or fails to meet the eight
approval criteria of Section 61?3-80 of the Zoning Ordinance, which must be considered in
making recommendations and decisions on standard rezoning requests.

(1 Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some
changing condition, trend orlfact;

The petitioner is currently under a land contact which includes two parcels presently zoned
B4. The intent of the rezoning is to increase the depth of the commercial frontage and to
allow for the aforementioned commercial uses. There are similarly situated commercial
offerings along Plymouth Road.

(2) Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Master Plan and the stated
purposes of this Zoning Ordinance;

While the subject rezoning is not a one-for?one match to the Master Plan of Policies land use
designation, the Planning and Development Department ?nds the request generally
consistent with the Master Plan as detailed later in this report.

(3) Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of
the public;

The intensi?cation of zoning adjacent to residential property is always of concern,
particularly when that new zoning classi?cation allows more abrasive uses. The B4 General
Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a thoroughfare-oriented
nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t by drawing part of their
clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional uses, which may be successfully
blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional. Given the spacing and screening
requirements which are speci?ed for many of the uses permitted in the B4 zoning
classi?cation, staff is of the opinion that this proposed amendment may protect the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public. Staff also cites the community?s desire to see
development, which would eliminate the current illegal dumping which occurs on the site at
present.

Page 3 of5

(4) Whether the City and other service providers will be able to provide adequate public
facilities and services to the subject property, while maintaining adequate levels of?service to
existing development;

The physical characteristics of the subject property will change signi?cantly as a result of the
proposed rezoning. Site plans have been presented which show the landscaping and layout
of the proposed development. Given that the subject property is within a traditional street
grid, disruption to city services is not anticipated.

(5) Whether the proposed rezoning will have significant adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including air, water, soil, wildlife, and vegetation and with respect to
anticipated changes in noise and regarding storm water management,-

There are no concerns regarding any of these aspects.

6) Whether the proposed amendment will have significant adverse impacts on other
property that is in the vicinity of the subject tract;

The vast majority of the uses in the immediate area are either residential or commercial in
nature. However, there is a densely populated residential neighborhood to the north of the
subject property. Given the spacing, setback, landscaping and screening requirements for the
proposed use, staff is of the opinion that no signi?cant adverse impacts will occur as a direct
result of the proposed rezoning. Typically, there is at least an alley separating the
commercial frontage from a residential structure and one point of concern is the introduction
of a restaurant-type business in such close proximity to residences.

7 The suitability of'the subject propertyfor the existing zoning classification and proposed
zoning classification; and

As noted previously, the existing Rl zoning classi?cation is not conducive for the proposed
uses which are commercial in nature. Before making the recommendation to pursue a B4
zoning classi?cation, CPC staff evaluated all zoning classi?cations and determined that the
B4 zoning classi?cation would allow for the proposed use and maintain the character of the
neighborhood along the Plymouth Road frontage.



(8) Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone. 

Given the commercial nature of the corridor in which this rezoning has been requested along
with the proposed rezoning?s consistency with the Master Plan of Policies, CPC is of the
opinion that the proposed rezoning would not constitute an illegal ?Spot zone.?

Suitability ofthe Property

One of the aforementioned criteria for rezoning states, ?The suitability of the subject prOperty for
the existing zoning classi?cation and proposed zoning classi?cation.? Zoning Map No. 77
generally shows a mix of R1 and B4 zoning to the north, south, east and west of the subject
property. This section of the Cody subsector is primarily developed with residential and
commercial uses. The existing residential prOperties along Westwood Avenue were primarily
built in 1942. As previously stated the B4 zoning classi?cation allows for a variety of
commercial offerings and supportive services for traditional residential neighborhoods.

Page 4 of 5

In general, the CPC looks favorably on the rezoning of the subject parcel to accommodate the
expansion of commercial and retail services.

Land Use

CPC is of the opinion that a B4 zoning classi?cation is an appropriate designation consistent
with the characteristics of the adjacent pr0perties, which will allow for the establishment of
commercial and retail related uses.

Significant Impact on Other Property

CPC is of the opinion that the rezoning of this property from a commercial stand-point might add
to the sustainability of the surrounding community by allowing the establishment of an
economically viable, tax revenue generating development.

RECOMMENDATION

On February 7, 2019 the City Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the request
of Mr. aJuan Thomas to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 77 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation
where an R1 (Single-family Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one (1)
parcel commonly identi?ed as 11620 Westwood Avenue, generally bounded by Wadsworth
Avenue to the north, Chesapeake and Ohio Railway to the east, Plymouth Avenue to the south
and Westwood Avenue to the west.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachments:
Zoning Map No. 77
Ordinance

Page 5 of5

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 77 to Show
a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation where an R1 (Single-family Residential
District) zoning classi?cation is currently shown on one parcel located at 11620 Westwood
Avenue, generally bounded by Wadsworth Avenue to the north, Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
to the east, Plymouth Road to the south, and Westwood Avenue to the west.



ls.)
Ix.)


J.)

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zonin'g,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
77 to show a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation where an R1 (Single-family
Residential District) zoning classi?cation is currently shown on one parcel located at 11620
Westwood Avenue, generally bounded by Wadsworth Avenue to the north, Chesapeake and
Ohio Railway to the east, Plymouth Road to the south, and Westwood Avenue to the west.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom'ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Map No. 77 is amended to shot-v a B4 [General Business District) xonina
classi?cation where an RI tSinaIe?llunilv Residential District} zoning classi?cation is currentlv
shown on one parcel. generally bounded by Wadsworth Avenue to the north. Chesapeake and
Ohio Railwav to the east. Plymouth Road to the south. and Westwood Avenue to the west.
identified more sneeitieallv as:

Land situated in the Citv of Detroit. County of Wayne, State of Michigan. as

??iows: [i WESTWOOD 467 PLYMOUTH PARK

SUB NO 1 1.67 P92 PLATS. 23702 42 134.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance
are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation ofthe public peace,

health, safety, and welfare ol?the people 01? the City ofDetroit.



Lu

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth day after publication in

accordance with MCL 125.3401(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph
Charter.

Approved as to Form:

(my 

I 

Lam rcnce Garcia
Corporation Counsel

Ix.)



.3

of the 2012 Detroit City

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 

(313) 224-1629



CITY OF DETROIT
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT

 

 

 

 

May 9, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request to Transfer Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate C2015-036 on behalf of
KNR Detroit Property, LLC in the area of 2831 East Grand Boulevard, Detroit,
Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Related to Petition #822).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department and Finance Departments have reviewed the
application of KNR Detroit Property, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA.
210 of 2005 (?the Act?) and would be consistent with development and economic goals of the Master
Plan.

The Act states that the legislative body of the quali?ed local governmental unit, may transfer
and assign the holder of the certi?cate after the new owner submits an application. We request that
City Council approve the transfer application for KNR Detroit Property, LLC. Attached for your
consideration, please ?nd a resolution approving said transfer.

Res ctfully submitted,

 
    

Donald Rencher
Director

DR/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, 
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD





. ..-



I..I
ll
4?
I

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 210 of 2005, M.C.L. 207.841 et seq. (?the Act?) this City
Council may adopt resolution approving the transfer application of a Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate after the submission of a transfer application by the new owner; and

WHEREAS, Chaps Photography, LLC was the original owner of the property located at 2831 E.
Grand Blvd., Detroit, and

WHEREAS, this City Council approved the application of Chap?s Photography, LLC for a
Commercial Exemption Certi?cate (Certi?cate no. and

WHEREAS, the new owner of the rehabilitated facility is KN Detroit Photography, LLC.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That it is hereby found and determined that the Applicant has complied with the
requirements of the Act; and be it further

RESOLVED, That the application of KNR Detroit Property, LLC for the transfer of a Commercial
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate (Certi?cate no. is hereby approved with the
certi?cate expiring December 30, 2027, in accordance with the provisions of the Act; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, That the City Clerk shall forward said application to the Michigan State Tax Commission
as provided by the Act.

ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT AND CONSENT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

THIS ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT AND CONSENT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT (this
?Assignment?) is entered into by and between ?aps Photography. I.LC a Michigan Limited
Liabilitt (Temptation (?Assignor?), with an o?ice at 1314 Washington Blvd. Suite 201.
Detroit. MI 43226 and KNR Detroit Propertv. LLC a Michi? Limited Liabilitx
Gummy (?Assignee?) with an of?ce at 2831 E. Grand Blvd. MI 4821 I . and is
consented to by the City of Detroit a Michigan municipal corporation acting by and
through its Flaming Development Department, with an of?ce at 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite
808, Detroit, MI 48226, and is made this 'day of 201_9_.

WITNESSETI-I:

WHEREAS, the City and Assignor entered into that certain Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate Agreement (the ?Abatement Agreement?) dated October 28 . gm;
pursuant to which Abatement Agreement the City approved a Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate for Assignor with respect to the Property (as de?ned in the
Abatement Agreement). A copy of the Abatement Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit A and
made a part hereof; and

WHEREAS, Assignor has transferred its interest in the Property to Assignee; and

WHEREAS, Assignee desires to have the City approve the transfer of the CREC from
Assignor to Assignee; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Abatement Agreement, the CREC may only be transferred
upon approval by the City, in its sole discretion, a?er application by Assignee; and

WHEREAS, Assignee has submitted an Application for Commercial Rehabilitation

Exemption Certi?cate (?New Application") for the Property. A cepy of the New Application is
attached hereto as Exhibit and made a part hereof; and

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and of the benefits to accrue to
the parties from this Assignment, the parties agree as follows:

1. The Assignor hereby assigns all of its rights and obligations under the Abatement
Agreement to the Assignec.

2. This Assignment and all actions arising under it shall be governed by the laws of
the State of Michigan.

3. All terms, conditions and covenants of the Abatement Agreement shall remain in
full force and effect, and the Assignce shall ful?ll all such terms, conditions and covenants.

[Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

 

 

IN WITNESS WI-IEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee, by and through their duly
authorized o?cers and representatim, have executed this Assignment.

ASSIGNOR:



NAME: Jordan Wolfe

 

ITS: Manager

ASSIGNEE:

r? I
BY: dig/? 
l- fc AnaiJe 


CONSENT TO ASSIGNMENT BY CITY
OF DETROIT, ACTING BY AND
THROUGH ITS RECREATION
DEPARTMENT:

BY:

 

 

 

 

Exhibit A

Abatement Agreement

 

COMMERCIAL REHABILITATION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE
AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT (?Agreement?), by and between the City of Detroit, a Michigan municipal
corporation, acting by and through its Planning and Development Department (?City?) with an of?ce
at 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808, Detroit, MI 48226 and ?aps Photography, 
(?Applicant") with an office at lSl-?l Washington Boulevard, Suite 20!, Detroit, MI 48226

is made this day of JOE.
WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, 2005 PA 210, also known as the Commercial Rehabilitation Act (1)
provides for the establishment of commercial rehabilitation districts by local governmental units
under certain criteria, (2) provides for the exemption from certain taxes for quali?ed facility owners
that qualify, and (3) allows local governmental units to levy and collect a speci?c tax upon the
owners of certain quali?ed facilities, among other provisions; and

WHEREAS, it is the policy of the City to grant tax exemptions allowable under the Act to
encourage rehabilitation of commercial property that will facilitate redevelopment, remove blighted
conditions and expand the tax base for the City of Detroit; and

WHERAS, the Applicant has submitted an Application for Commercial Rehabilitation
Exemption Certi?cate ("Application") for the City?s consideration for property located at
2331 East (?Property?). A copy the Application is attached

here to as Exhibit A and mEdeE'hereor; and

 

WHEREAS, the City has previously approved a commercial rehabilitation district pursuant
to the Act and the Property is located in such district; and

WHEREAS, the Applicant shall complete a Rehabilitation of the Property and the Applicant
shall hire or retain a certain amount of full time employees during the term of the and

WHEREAS, the City has approved the Application by resolution granting the Commercial
Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate pending approval also by the Michigan State Tax
Commission. A copy of the City resolution granting the CREC is attached hereto as Exhibit and

made a part hereof; and

NOW, THEREFORE, to encourage approval of a CREC and in recognition of the
investments the City will make toward the economic of the Applicant, which in turn will
bene?t the City, the parties hereby agree as follows:

I . General.

3- The Applicant Will complete the Pronerty ?Rehabilitation" as de?ned in the Act and as
set forth in the Application by ?(Wm 1. 2017

version 04-08-2015, ?nalized 10-22-20! 5 i

 

 

The Applicant will take reasonable action to recruit and hire City of Detroit residents in
accordance with speci?ed targets as set forth in a City of Detroit Resident Employment
Plan (?Employment Plan") submitted by the Applicant to the City and approved by the
Human Rights Department. The Employment Plan may be updated or modi?ed
throughout the term of this Agreement with approval from the Human Rights

Department.

This Agreement shall become effective upon approval by the Michigan State Tax
Commission of a CREC covering the Preperty. Unless earlier revoked as provided for in
Section 12 of the Act, being MCL 207.852, or this Agreement, the CREC term and the
term of this Agreement shall be for a period of ten 10) years from the Michigan State
Tax Commission?s approval of the CREC.

The Applicant shall establish, or cause to be established, at least
?ve 5 full time employee(s) at the Property
within two years of the effective date of the Agreement.

For purposes of this Agreement, a ?full-time employee" shall include a person: 1) who is
employed by the Applicant or its af?liates on a salary, wage, commission, or other basis,
for a minimum period of forty (40) hours a week and 2) from whose compensation the
Applicant or its af?liates, including a staf?ng agency, are required by law to withhold
City of Detroit income taxes. Affiliates may include Applicant?s tenant(s) that lease
space at the Property.

Applicant Representations

In compliance with the Act and intending to induce the City to grant a CREC to the
Applicant, the Applicant represents that:

a.

b.

The Applicant is the owner of the Property at the time of the Application.
The Property is a ?Quali?ed Facility? as de?ned under the Act.
The Property will not include property to be used as a professional sports stadium.

The Property will not include prOperty to be used, owned or Operated by a casino or
af?liated company as de?ned in the Act.

The project would not have been considered without an CREC.

Rehabilitation of the Property has not started earlier than 6 months before the Applicant
?led the Application for the CREC.

There are no delinquent taxes owed on the Property.

The Applicant will pay any applicable taxes on the Property as they become due.

version 04?08-20! 5, ?nalized [0-22-20 I 5 2

 

 

i. The Rehabilitation and operation of the Property is in compliance with the City of
Detroit Zoning Ordinance and Master Plan.

j. The Applicant will make reasonable efforts to partner or form a joint venture with small
business enterprises, minority business enterprises or woman-owned business enterprises
that are located in Detroit, or with community-based groups. If the Applicant is
unsuccess?il in these efforts, upon request, the Applicant will explain in writing to the
City the efforts undertaken and the reasons why partnering or forming a joint venture has
not been feasible for the project.

k. If the Rehabilitation of the Property will result in the provision of multifamily residential
use, the Applicant must agree to Fair Housing Practices that meet guidelines set forth by
the US. Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 through 3619).

3. Reporting by the Applicant to the City.

Within one week after the ?rst year of the Agreement and for each year thereafter, Applicant
shall submit to the Planning Development Department and Human Rights Department of
the City of Detroit the following annual reports: 1) a Detroit Resident Hiring Report, 2) a
Contract Compliance Report (Form and 3) a current Employer Information Report
(Form EEO-2) on ferms acceptable to the City.

The Applicant shall provide the Flaming Development Department copies of all
construction plans, building permits and certi?cates of occupancy. These documents, along
with periodic site visits to the Property by the City, will serve to establish whether the
Applicant is making the Rehabilitation to the Property as required by the Act and this
Agreement.

4. Annual Status Report by the Application.

Within one week a?er the ?rst year of the Agreement and for each year thereafter, Applicant
shall submit to the Flaming and Development Department a certi?ed status report (?Status
Report?) signed by an authorized of?cer of the Applicant. The Status Report shall set forth
for the previous year 1) the Rehabilitation work completed at the Property and the
Applicant?s ?nancial investment in the Property for that year and 2) the average number of
full-time employees at the Property for that year- The average number of full-time
employees shall be computed as the average of the number of full-time employees at the
Property on March 31?, June September and December 315' of that year.

5. Review and Audit of Applicant Employment Information.

Applicant agrees to provide the City with suf?cient information, and the City may review
and audit the information provided by Applicant, in order to determine compliance with this
Agreement. If Applicant fails to provide employment information satisfying the needs of the
City, Applicant will provide the City and the Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency
written authorization, in a form acceptable to the City and the UIA, to use and
develop appropriate UIA documents, such as, but not limited to, the UIA Multiple Worksite
Report, to verify the number of full-time employees stated in the annual Status Report. In

version 04-08-2015, ?nalized [0?22-2015 3

 

 

the event Applicant fails to provide the City with any information required under this
Agreement within a reasonable period of time, Applicant agrees to reimburse the City for
reasonable costs, including attorney fees, incurred by the City in obtaining and verifying
such information.

6. Revocation of CREC and Termination of Agreement.

The City may, in its sole discretion and by resolution of Detroit City Council, revoke the
CREC if the City ?nds that the completion of Rehabilitation of the Property has not occurred
within the time authorized by the City in this Agreement or within a duly authorized
extension of that time, or that the Applicant has not proceeded in good faith with the
operation of the rehabilitated Property in a manner consistent with the purposes of the Act
and in the absence of circumstances that are beyond the control of the Applicant.

Good faith efforts include, but are not limited to, the following: 1) Applicant is actively
working with an agency or City Department to hire and ascertain methods of recruiting and
employing Detroit residents, and 2) Applicant is actively working with the Detroit Economic
Growth Corporation and the City?s Planning Development Department to ascertain
methods of obtaining available resources to improve Applicant?s business in a manner that
will allow for compliance with this Agreement.

7. Payment of Exempted Taxes for Shortfall of Employment.

If the average number of full-time employees at the Property for any given year is less than
the number of ?ill-time employees set for in Section 1. d. above, the Applicant agrees to pay
the City, in addition to the Commercial Rehabilitation Tax due under the CREC on the
Property, an amount equal to the difference between the amount of ad valorem tax otherwise
due on the Property without the CREC, and the amount of Commercial Rehabilitation Tax
due on the Property under the CREC, for that given year, multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the shortfall in the number of full-time employees indicated in the
Status Report, and the denominator of which is the total number of ?ill-time employees set
forth in Section 1. d. above. Prior to taking any action to require the Applicant to pay any
amount to the City in addition to the Commercial Rehabilitation Tax pursuant to this Section,
the City must afford the Applicant an opportunity to present at a public hearing reasons for
any shortfall by the Applicant in its compliance with this Agreement.

8. Reimbursement of City Costs upon Discontinuance of Operations.

a. To enable the Applicant to make the improvements and Rehabilitation of the Property as
set forth in this Agreement, the City may incur costs for site acquisition, infrastructure
improvements, or for other related purposes, as may be agreed to in writing between the
City and the Applicant. If during the term of the CREC the Applicant shall discontinue
operations at the Property, the Applicant agrees to reimburse the City for any such
agreed upon costs incurred by the City.

b. The Applicant agrees that if during the term of the CREC it shall decide to discontinue

version 04-08-2015 5

 

operations, the Applicant shall send written noti?cation of the actual date of
operations at the Property, the Applicant shall send written noti?cation to the Director of
the Flaming Development Department within thirty (30) days of the decision. The
Applicant further agrees that, within thirty (30) days of the actual discontinuance of
operations, the Applicant shall send written noti?cation of the actual date of
discontinuance to the Director of the Flaming Development Department.

9. Prevailing Wage Requirements

Pursuant to Section 18-5-65. Conditions for tax abatement. of the Detroit City Code, the
Applicant agrees that it is receiving tax abatements under the CREC for the Property and,
therefore, the Application shall pay, or cause to be paid, prevailing wages on all construction
work performed on the Property.

10. Reservation of Remedies.

The City and the Applicant agree that each of the rights and remedies provided by this
Agreement may be exercised separately or cumulatively, and shall not be exclusive of any
other rights and remedies provided by law. Invalidation of any of the provisions contained
in the Agreement by operation of law, judgment, court order or otherwise shall not invalidate
any of the other provisions of the Agreement.

1 1. Transfer

The CREC may be transferred and assigned by the Applicant to a new owner of the Property
if the City, in its sole discretion, approves the transfer of the CREC after application by the
new owner. For purposes of this section a transfer of the Property shall include any sale of
the Property or any lease of more than ?fty percent of the total usable space of the
Property for a period longer than ?ve years.

12. Headings

The headings contained in this Agreement are for descriptive purposes only, and do not alter
or govern the substantive content of the provisions of the Agreement.

version 04-08-2015 6

 

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the Applicant, by and through their authorized of?cers and
representatives, have executed this Agreement as follows:

 

 

WITNESSES: APPLICANT:

lqui-Zf??drl? LL 
. BY:
Print: ?it 1F Print: pol-{c

 

 

2. ITS: Mm?
Print: ll! El 

WITNESSES: CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPT.

HIM ?21m
MI l?tml UWW

2. ITS: {kn/IX,

Print: 

 

 

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT EFFECTIVE OR VALID UNTIL A COMMERICAL
REHABILITATION EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE IS APPROVED BY THE MICHIGAN STATE

TAX COMMISSION

version 04-08-2015

 

 

Exhibit 

New Application

 

ditty at Detroit

Janie M- OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK West
mm oqmyay Clerk/alkfof?a?
November 8, 2018

Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. Suite 908
Detroit, MI. 48226

Re: KNR Detroit Property, LLC

Please ?nd attached a transfer application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate for the property located at 2831 E. Grand Blvd. (RELATED TO PETITION

#822)

Ht: sulmuutni.



Michael]. 0 Council, 11'. Asst. City Council Clerk
O?ce of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Cum 0 Detroit, Michlgan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3250 - Fax (313} 224-1466

 

 

 

Michioan Department of Treasury STATE USE ONLY

4507 (Rev. 06-09) 
Appkallon Minibar I Date Received I LUCI Code

T/?einj?pc?f? l- 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate
Issued under authority of Public Act 210 2005, as amended

Read the instructions page before campieting the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1. 2 and 3 and ?le one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional c0py with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax bene?ts until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART 1: OWNER I APPLICANT INFORMATION (amiicani must complete all ?elds)
Applicant (Cami-my) Name {applicant must be the owner or the facility) NNCS or SIC Code 
KN Detroit Property. LLC
mix-5E1 FEE- Stale Zip Code
2831 E. Grand Detroit MI I 48211
?ame or City. ?fawn?shining: iiuing authority) County School omna'wrim Faulty is Loci-tee
Detroit . 
- ne 
City El Villas 1 ay Detroit 82010
bite Rahabiltation Cornh'iencernmi (mica?my)? itinerant Rehahlii?tlon completion 
08/1 01201 a I 10/01/201 3
I Eamon?teR-osiol-?eiuodita?on - .. Number of Renae-tiled (1-10} - 
$1 25.000 8
Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)
increase Commercial Activity Rattan Employment Revitalize Urban Areas

q- Create Employment Prevent Loss of Employment Increase Numberof Residents in Facity?s Community i
_No._of prism cr?aeled cue to new. emulsion! No of jobs to be remitted are Faeiuy'sTeitebi-iatmi he. at oonatruci'nn pin to he created during ran-sunset 
5 5 1 1

 

 

.PART 2: APPLICATION 

Prepare and attach the following items:

Ger-oral I'lM-rriptm of the tycar bull, original use. most recent use. in . .
number at am?: square tement of the meme advantages expected from the exemption

 

Desorption 0f the qualiied faciity's proposed use g] Legal description
Description of the general nature and extent of the rehab?ltatlon to be Widertaircn Samarium at matwiuyderl?m area? (unarmed Rel-I Food
staslra?mcnl: . 

Descriptive list or the ?xed buiding equipment thatwiil be a pan of the quali?-d facility Com-woe! Rehabil'lalim Exec-mien Certi?cate mantra Retail Food
Establishments :Form 4153) (Quilter: Floral Food Establishment: only)

Time schedule for undertaking and completing the faclity'a rehabilitation

PART 3: APPLICANT 

 

 

 

 

 

Nan-1c dAuii'Iota'z-d Company Olin-or the authorized agent?) Telephone Nun'ber
Nicholas Stachurski _1 (248) 953-1170
Fm: Number E-rnailAd-cllua
. nickstach@gmail.com
norms; City I State ZIP Code 
2831 E. Grand Detroit 1  Ml 48211

 



certify that. to the best of my knowledge, the infonnah?on contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further, i am familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, and lo the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or will be able to comply with all of the requirements titereof which are praraquisrl?e to the approval of the application by the local
govemmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate by the Stale Tax Commission.

i further certify that this rehabilitation program. when completed. will constitute a rehabilitated facility as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.
and that the rehabilitation of this lacilty would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certi?cate.

Signature of Authorized Ollie-r [m NMRH agents] Title Date
Member

?r

 

 

1081/2018

 

 

 

 

 

Form 4507?. Page 2

 

PART 4: ASSESSOR RECOMMENDATIONS [assessor of LGU must complete Part 4)

Pronde the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property. as provided in 210 of 2005. as amended. for the tax year
Immediately preceding the effective date of the (December 31 of the year approved by the STC).


 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

Land

 



The property to be covered by this exemption may not be included on any other speci?c tax roll while recelvhg the Commerdd Rehabila?on Exempllon. For example.
property on he Eligible Tax Reverted Property (Land Bank) speelic tax real cannot be granted a Commercial Exemption Mermaid also put the some property

on the Commercial Rehlblil?lbn speci?c tax roll.

 

 

 

[1 By this box I certify that. If approved. the property to be covered by exemption will be on the Commercial Reheblltatlon Exemptlon speci?c tax rel
and not on any other spedllc tax rdl.

 

Name of Local Government Body

 

Name of Assessor (?rst and last name) Telephone Number

 

hi'g?tmber E-m-u helmets!

 

 

I certify that, to the best of my knowledw, the mfonnatibn contained in Part 4 of this epph'cetion is complete and emote.

I Assessor's Signature-_ Dela

 

 

 

 

PART 5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION (clerk of LGU must complete Part 5}

Ashen Taken 31 LCD {lunch a cendled copy at the resolution)

 

Exemption approved for years. ending December 30? (not to exceed 10 years}

Exemption Denied
Date District Established (attach for district) Local Unit Classmcatlon Identi?cation (LUCI) Code School Code?

 

 

 

 

PART 6: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERK CERTIFICATION (clerk of LGU must complete Part 6)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clerk?s Nam (?rst and last) Telephone Number

a; Number Email Adm 

Addreas C511 State ZIP Code
LGU Contact Pereon torAddilionel Information LGU contact Person Telephone Number Fax Number

 

 

 

certify that. to the best of my knoMedge. the lnfonnadon contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request
the State Tax Commission issue a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate. as provided by Public-Act 210 #2005. as amended.


 

 

 

Clerk's Slonaturo

 

 

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to:

State lax Commussron
PO. Box 30471
Lansing. MI 48909

 

 

 

[6/1/18]

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate at
2831 E. Grand Blvd, Detroit, MI 48211
Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate
for the property located at (2831 Grand Blvd, Detroit, Michigan) and described on
Attachment A.

A) The property of 2831 Grand Blvd, Detroit Michigan was ?rst built in 1936. It?s

13)

original purpose was a metal warehouse until it was later transformed into a
photography studio. Before we purchased the building it?s most recent uses
included renting to a production company, Eightfold, and a real estate company
called Castle. The Building is 2 stories tall and it measures 7000 square feet in
total.

We have several exciting plans for the future use of this rehabilitated facility.
Eightfold is a commercial production company that has been renting the building
for the past 2 years. Given that the owners of Eightfold are also the new co-
owners of the building we will be looking to expand the company. This expansion
will start with the building of of?ces on the second ?oor of the building. By
moving our offices to the second ?oor and out of the back where the studio is we
will be able to create more opportunities for the studio space. We would like to
establish the studio space as a non-pro?t entity. We will open the space up for
local artists to work at a much lower rate than they would be able to ?nd at a
normal studio. We will also allow events and public gatherings for nonpro?ts and
small businesses to take place in the space as well. Another feature we will be
adding to the building is a coffee shop in the front main ?oor space. This coffee
shop will be focused on servicing those from the existing neighborhoods while
also bringing new faces to the area. We believe this coffee shop is very important
and needed for the New Center area.

 

 

C) In the second floor of the building we will be constructing two of?ces, a
conference room, and a common area. We will be putting a new ?oor down and
repainting the walls. We will be restoring the ceiling and also reinforcing the
supports. Then on the roof of the second ?oor we plan to build a deck that will
operate as additional of?ce Space. The rear half of the building there is a 3000 sq
foot studio. In this studio we have already built a bathroom, kitchen, and an
of?ce. We have also brought in and re-fabricated an old shipping container and
converted it into an editing bay. Because the beams that run across the ceiling are
deteriorating we will be replacing the beams and reinforcing the roof to make it
structurally sound. In the front half of the ?rst ?oor we will be opening a coffee
shop. There are many improvements that we plan to do in order to get the coffee
shop ready for the public. We will be building street lights on the exterior of the
building, setting up security cameras, creating streatside signage, updating the
electrical on the interior, updating the bathroom (sink, toilet, walls), setting up
wifi, installing a kitchen sink, refrigeration, installing 2 ovens, updating plumbing
for sink near roaster, espresso machine, purchasing ?irniture, building a coffee
bar, installation ventilation for the coffee roaster, building a walk up window for
the coffee bar.

D) We have already begun the process of rehabilitation on several of the previously
mentioned projects. We plan to have all of the aforementioned projects completed
within the 12 months of the approval of the tax abatement.

#2

The Eightfold Collective is a commercial production company. They have created
commercials for some of the largest companies in Detroit and across the us. Their clients
include: Ford, GM, Wells Fargo, ESPN, and ACDelco to name a few.
Despite their success, Eightfold is still very much so a small and hungry enterprise.
Eightfold has been in business for over 6 years. The ?rst 4 years of the company?s life
were Spent in Lansing, Michigan. In December of 2016, Eightfold made the move from
Lansing to Detroit. For the past year and half Eightfold had been renting the rear 3000
square feet of 2831 grand blvd. In May 2018 the owners of Eightfold, Nicholas
Stachurski and Kurt Schneider, formed an LLC with a third party to purchase the

building.

The project at hand is the revitalization of 2831 grand to turn it into a staple for
the arts in the New Center district. One facet of the project is the coffee shop that we will
be putting into the front of the building. We will be partnering with an existing coffee
roaster, Coffeehaus to create a new entity. Our goal will be to seamlessly integrate
Eightfold/Coffee Haus into the New Center/North End community by providing coffee
and a snack to existing north end community, a basic commodity that residents and

 

 

workers need in the area that does not exist. While providing a stepping stone into a
larger coffee shop for Coffee Haus.

Another part of the revitalization to the building is the conversion of the rear studio area
into a more public event space. Our goal for this space is to eventually get it registered as
a non pro?t, set up for artists and different non pro?ts to use for shows and various
events. In order to prepare this space to be a more public area we have a variety of
different things that need to be done. We will be knocking out several walls to allow for
more Space. This will require the pouring of additional concrete and a lot of re-painting.
To make the area more secure we will be building a fenced in area around our production]
?lm equipment. This will be essential for keeping our equipment from getting stolen and
keeping guests from getting hurt by using something they should not be using.

The ?nal part of the renovation will be the upstairs portion of the front half of the
building. Here we will be building 2 of?ces, a conference room, and a common area. We
will also be putting a hole in the wall and extending the staircase from the rear of the
building so that you can access this second ?oor from the rear of the building instead of
having to walk all the way around through the coffee shop to get to the stairs.

#3

All of these projects are entirely hinging on the receipt of this exemption certi?cate.
Without the reduction we simply will not have the funds to take on any of these projects
and the growth of the building will be greatly stunted. As a company Eightfold currently
has 2 full time employees and around 15 contract employees. Vt?th these improvements to
the building and the expansion of eightfold we hOpe double both of those numbers within
the next 5 years. Having at least 5 full time employees and 30 or so contract employees
that work with us on a regular basis. Additionally with the coffee shop we plan to start off
with 2 to 3 employees and as the company grows we look to expand that number up to 5

or 6 employees.

#4
All city taxes on this property are current. We are requesting a 10 year exemption for this

project.

#5
The revitalization of this building will have many bene?ts to the New Center community

and the greater Detroit community abroad. The area that this building is currently located
in has very few stores. In fact the only store within a square mile is a gas station. Having
a coffee Shop that is welcoming to the existing community will be very important. It will
be a space where people living in this community can connect with those that are visiting
from other communities. The ripple effect of the non pro?t studio will be enormous.
Having an affordable creative space where artists can create art, showcase it, and build

 

 

their portfolios will help attract more artists to the area. The more artists that are drawn to
the Detroit area will result in more entertainment. Having more entertainment will draw
more people from the suburbs to come and explore the city and spend their money.

KNR Detroit LLC would like to sincerely thank you for considering our request. We are
very excited for the possibilities at hand with this building and the city of Detroit as a
whole. We hope that with this tax exemption we will be able to playr a small role in the
amazing revitalization that is already occurring in Detroit.

Respectfully submitted,

KNR Detroit Kurt Schneider

Attachment A: Site Map that includes the parcel(s) of property Legal Description
Attachment B: Paid Receipt of Current Taxes

cc: K. Bridges, DEGC
N. Marsh, DEGC
D. Bolton, Planning

 

 

 

Property Address: 2831 GRAND BLVD

Kg? 2018 CITY OF DETROIT 
SUMMER TAX BILL



        

(ITV 
DETROIT,
. . - CHAPS PHOTOGRAPHY LLC

11514 WASHINGTON BLVD
DETROIT. MI 4826

. . 

RATE TAX IMPORTANT INFORMATION - SEE REVERSE SIDE 

ILSTAITE EDUCATION ?6 pound - - 
SCHOOL OPERATING 15.130000 2.15339 PARCEL 23002015035!?
INSPECTION FEE 100.00! SCHOOL DISTRICT 82010

I SEV 136,000 .
TAXABLE VALUE 119,661
PREIMBT 96 
PROP CLASS 916-CRA REHAB REAL

i PARTIAL PROPERTY DESCRIPTION

run 
GRAND BLVD 223 112 224 FRISBIE FOXENS L6 P75 FLATS. 

W45 110
Tam-summer Rate; arm? 
wags?? 5751115?
Total Special Fees. 100.00
I Admin Fee: 28.71
TOTAL DUE: 3300.53:
13* Farm-"t Due 1-500-23 IMPORTANT INFORMATION - SEE REVERSE SIDE.
2nd Half Payment Due 111512019 1,500 28

RETAIN THIS PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS. a?
$0qu CANCELLED CHECK IS RECEIPT m.

2018 SUMMER PROPERTY TAX - RETURN BOTTOM PORTION WITH YOUR PAYMENT

2018 CITY OF DETROIT
. SUMMER BILL g; 23002015036N

TOTAL DUE: 3.000.56
DUE DATE: Full Payment - August 31, 2018

[m 151 HaIf Payment - August 15, 2018




CHAPS PHOTOGRAPHY LLC
to rule you payment
NDat kioak. 11514 WASHINGTON BLVD
DETROIT MI 48226

Property Address: 2831 GRAND BLVD

CODTI2018 - WNW. - (DESPHS T554 mom moo 

 

 

 

Property Adan-355: 2831 GRAND BLVD

10%?

It

2018 CITY OF DETROIT

SUMMER TAX BILL

CHAPS PHOTOGRAPHY LLC
11514 WASHINGTON BLVD

DETROIT, MI 48226

77: TAX AMOONT . IMPORTANT INFORMATION - SEE REVERSE SIDE

03001?86. 

82010

23.900
2,534 I
0 I

STATE EDUCATION arm 152211? PARCEL g:
GENERAL CITY 1am 52.55
DEBT SERVICE 7. 1 T:
LIBRARY 4.63070, I1 13 SCHOOL 
I SCHOOL DEBT 13.0mm; 39.94 SEV
SCHOOL OPERATING 46,61 TAXABLE VALUE
COUNTY TAX 5. 14.a1  PREIMBT 96
we RESA ENH 2mm 5.06; PROP CLASS

201-COMMERCIAL .

PARTIAL PROPERTY DESCRIPTION
?muLAI-mmsorms

. GRAND BLVD 223 112 224 FRISBIE FOXENS L6 P78 FLATS. 

 

 

 

Total Summer Rate T635100
'TaTtaI'Taxos - 7353-?
Total Speciai Fees: .00?
Admin Fee: 193?
I TOTAL 196.0613:
Ist Half Payment Due BI15I2018 97.53
2116 Half Payment Due 111512019 97.53

RETAIN THIS TOP PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS- 
YOUR CANCELLED CHECK us YOUR RECEIPT. 



IMPORTANT INFORMATION - SEE REVERSE SIDE.

.9

2018 SUMMER PROPERTY TAX - RETURN BOTTOM PORTION WITH YOUR PAYMENT

2018 CITY OF DETROIT

SUMMER TAX BILL


PARCEL 03001788.
TOTAL DUE: 195m
DUE DATE: Full Payment - August 31. 2018

1st Half Payment August 15. 2018



nun-I 

Scanlme
tomalayourpuymmt
onaDlvDatIdodt.

Property Address: 2831 GRAND BLVD

1077564405617?!

CHAPS PHOTOGRAPHY LLC
11514 WASHINGTON BLVD
DETROIT MI 48226

T554 250615 WI 10W RENT

 

 

 

ddE 2. Ian) 301% ono?r? .34 I till 
.0. 
bi; an: S. mzozumo 300105. am: 5 90:03 395 Bobtail

 

x. Lyn?Em) 30.1111 24. EB .31 :33 mi
.. m?va Muga? M90 01.0! GIFE

 

 

 

 

-

- . 
.. .
. . 
. ..I.
49.5.3.1! rtuan. . (-11 -, . . . 
diamuwan?bjhr

 

 

AMOCIATEQ. 
COPYRIGHT 2018
143-215-6012

?7 (59.6? L??m?uym (53.1.9215; WK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

1

 

PIQELM

o.m..am. nu. . H?b?tw . .

.. 
04mm 2_ .xomnri my? 02999.6 in
. . 33m
:49. Oz? aZExm



SECTION
TAE 3'


1..

??rF

.leE FEE) mud, 444. 501.. a - 
n22. v.81 a7? 230. anmihm DmenRuml 2. 



 

 

1 

1




1

Hid-1 I?h? m?umcn

h'?l
'n?i?o-u

1
-J?'ql
3.h-b?I

 



 

. 4 
. 
?alpha-ONLY


:"pent-up?n-c?p1..
gaggigtb ?Rm

llil.

 

l.

I




.3,
4' 
.-

Iovltl: oli.



.


NICK AND KLRT
2831 E. GRAND BLVD
DEIROIT MICHIGAN

flu-3. 

2. 3'5.


l1.'
1

I 

-
.
I?ll;-



 

11:25; . a 
1.51 119.. 

 

n?i? 900:1: gifkil

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

q.

PRELMINART 1:012 0155115510111. ONLY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4H1
mt 
Wish-i911 4111-11.111. .
1 . . I I?tnnl . u..HF14Llhn?..r?l Ml?: a . .m 0 


1




mmulmmu mg? $3.3.an WEI an
Graig-m a u. 

40m Omnx

>51 Ujmzm?uzm bmxu?OX. <m?=n41 

 

.1
-1 
.. J. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I313:


 

1! 7.1.11.2 rh?r. J. 31.1?
?291.. 311.In.

   

 

 

 

 



nn03.00mu1.wmm_n..10_u can." 

-

amouomumu $236550.? 21mg 5001 ?on nm?n



 

02m. biox (mm?H INFO.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



h;

 

gaze ?9 .14 311011.069?; lwl.h.fn.?s.?? 

 

1.. R.

 

. 1v
TilIll. I
. li?.VI
11.. I. I 
. .nl?lar'l?hj .
. .1. . thz?ul l.lI'll-I5. In All.
1.1 I .I (Imijld . .1.- 
I

 

 



 

055 0: 56.629



hr? an? . mgr. . 



b4 ZME 

.1.. >Er 0.392015 b.0330!? <m?=u4 .Z INFO.

utnn to 
320220 @303 
moth . . 

 

DC. U_3m7.m._02m. b?m blqumox ImrU.

?01008 038$ Umnd?uz >20 90m $5.102

ha 2E wax. w\.brm. Y5 . .10..
1 IF U. le h1?u?0va .2 Emu?U.

1?1 1.
09 Gear Manama; cam-511'


m?u

 

 

NICK AND KURT
293? E. GRAND BLVD
DEIROIT MICHIGAN

 

"l

I-o'

9 SEQ-ans
14" 


3 lb'

was. FLOOR. PLAN



 

NOT FOR consmnou tn -

I1

LEW

.RN DESIGN A56OCIATES. LLC
COPYRIGHT 2018



 

 

 

 

Michigan Department of Treasury
4604 (2-11)

it}? Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Z. Certificate NO. C2015-036

Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, the State Tax Commission
hereby issues a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for the commercial property, as
described in the approved application, owned by Chaps Photography, LLC, and located at 2831
Grand Boulevard, City of Detroit, County of Wayne, Michigan.

This certificate provides the authority for the assessor to exempt the commercial property for
which this Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate is in effect, but not the land on which
the rehabilitated facility is located or the personal property, from ad valorem taxation. This
certificate further provides the authority to levy a speci?c tax known as the Commercial

Rehabilitation tax.

 

This certificate, unless revoked as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, shall remain
in force for a period of 10 year(s);

Beginning December 31, 2015, and ending December 30, 2027.
The real property investment amount for this obsolete facility is $75,000.

The frozen taxable value of the real property related to this certificate is $21,440.

This Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate is issued on December 16, 2015.

Douglas B. Roberts, Chairperson
State Tax Commission

A TRUE COPY

 

Heather Cole
Michigan Department of Treasury

 


5102 (Rev. 04-15) ?air
?filial-5?
STATE OF MICHIGAN
RICK SNYDER DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY NICK A. KHOURI
GOVERNOR LANSING STATE TREASURER

December 18, 2015

Jordan Wolfe

Chaps Photography, LLC

1514 Washington Boulevard, Suite 201
Detroit, MI 48226

Dear Sir or Madam:

The State Tax Commission at their December 16, 2015 meeting considered and approved your
application for a commercial rehabilitation project, in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005, as
amended. Enclosed is certi?cate number C2015-036, issued to Chaps Photography, LLC for the
project located at 2831 Grand Boulevard, City of Detroit, Wayne County.

If you have any questions regarding this exemption please contact the Property Services Division
at (517) 373-0675.

Sincerely,

WM @152

Heather S. Frick, Executive Director
State Tax Commission

Enclosure

By Certi?ed Mail

cc: Gary L. Evanko, Assessor, City of Detroit
Clerk, City of Detroit

P.O. BOX 30471 I LANSING. MICHIGAN 48909
0 517-335-3429

  
  

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 
November 30, 2018

Maurice Cox, Director

City of Detroit

Planning 8: Development Department
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate C2015-036 Transfer Request
2831 E. Grand Boulevard
Parcel Numbers: 03001786., 23002015.036F, 23002015.036N

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the request to transfer
Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate C2015-036 expiring on 12/30/2027 from Chap's Photography LLC
to KNR Detroit Property LLC for the property located at 2831 E. Grand Boulevard.

A certificate may be transferred and assigned by the holder of the certificate to a new owner of the
rehabilitated facility if the qualified local governmental unit approves the transfer after application by the
new owner.

A review of the request for the transfer of the Commercial Rehabilitation Certificate to KNR Detroit

Property LLC indicates that the project located at 2831 E. Grand Boulevard is eligible as it pertains to the
Commercial Rehabilitation Act, PA 210 of 2005, as amended.

Sincerely,

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



COLMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization Department

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning Development Department

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for establishment of Commercial Rehabilitation District
Exemption Transfer for 2831 E. Grand Boulevard

DATE: December 21, 2018

CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure that establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation District is consistent with the City?s
Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity; create,
retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents in a
community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 210 of 2005 (section 207.843), the Planning and
Development Department?s Planning Division submits the following interpretation.

 

Petitioner: KNR Detroit Property, LLC

Project Location: 2831 E. Grand Boulevard

Project Proposal: The project seeks to redevelop and expand an existing 2-story, 7000 square foot
property to accommodate a new coffee shop on the first floor and an affordable office space on the
second floor for local artists and as event space.

Master Plan Interpretation

The Master Plan Future General Land Use Designation for the site is Mixed Residential Industrial (MRI)
Mixed Residential - Industrial areas offer live-work opportunities for artists and trades people to create a
lively mixture of residential, commercial, light industrial and/or entertainment opportunities. This
designation is especially appropriate for historically industrial areas that may be suited to loft
conversion.

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use Designation of the area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map(s): Neighborhood Cluster 4; Middle Woodward, Map 4-7B

 

.?Ezv
4 
ii:
?95:
Highland Park *3
IL ?is
d\3?tr, Hamtramck
?5a RLM . 

 

 

 
  

  
  
 
 
       
             
       
  
 
 
 

Subject Silt-
283i If. Grand .

 

    


it 


il 121' .
. .

. 
lei. 
-. 31 . 

Ldj?j?l?; ?grim-u 'pmn i
a t? . girl.mnnl 
i i? r. r: Multan: all[in?q.
A . I If". alum". in?ll?win I II

Q. It.
?r 
gill? 

 

 

 

4'73 Neighborhood Cluster 4
c'ty ?f Detm't Middle Woodward

Master Plan of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Policies
Future Land Use 
Low Densny Residential (RL) Thoroughfare Commercial (CT) 9f] Mixed - Town Center (MTC)
Low 1? Medium Density ReSIdential (RLM) Special Commercial (CS) 1 Recreation (PRC) 
- Medium Density Residential (RM) General Industrial (IG) Regional Park (PR)
- High Density Residential (RH) -. ?3 Light Industrial (IL) E2 Private Marina (PRM)
Major Commercial (CM) Distribution i Port Industrial (IDP) I: Airport (AP)
Bl] Retail Center (CRC) Mixed Restdenllal (MRC) if) Cemetery (CEM)
Neighborhood Commerc1al(CN) Mixed - ReSIdenlial (Industrial (MRI) Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

