?PcFerrals
(9/4/10!

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

Date: May 30, 2019

To: Honorable City Council

From: Law Department 

Re: Law Department Response to CM Castaneda-Lopez - Olympia Development
Commitments

 

The Law Department has filed a privileged and confidential memorandum in
response to above-referenced matter. Please submit this item for referral to the
Planning and Economic Development Committee so that City Council can take any
action that is necessary.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

   

May 31,2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Public Hearing to Approve a Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate on behalf
of GPC Adams, LLC, in the area of 25 West Elizabeth and 2047 Woodward Avenue,
Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 210 of 2005 (Petition #593).

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department, Planning Development Department and Finance
Department have reviewed the application of GPC Adams, LLC, and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set
forth by PA. 210 Of 2005 and would be consistent with development and economic goals Of the Master
Plan.

Public Act 210 of 2005 states that the legislative body Of the quali?ed local governmental unit,
shall by resolution either approve or disapprove the application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate in accordance with Section 3 and other provisions of this act. Prior to acting upon a resolution
to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of
the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem
tax within the eligible district.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of approving the application for the
Commercial Rehabilitation Certi?cate. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Kelly R. Vickers
Associate Director

KV/vf

Cc: S. Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER 

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act 210 of 2005 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a resolution
approving the application of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate within the boundaries of

the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, GPC Adams, LLC has made application for a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certi?cate whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto;

and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public Hearing, at
which a Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at which Public
Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the City, or any other
resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee Room, 13th
floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above described application
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and shall
give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad valorem

tax within the City of Detroit.

May 28. 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for 25 West
Elizabeth Street and 2047 Woodward Avenue, Detroit. Michigan 48201 for GPC

Adams, LLC

Honorable City Council:

A Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption (PA210) Certificate application submitted April 23, 2019
under Petition #593.

The application identified approximately 300 jobs that would be retained and 200-250 created
over the next 5 years as part of Chemical Bank's move to Detroit and occupancy of the building.
Chemical Bank is committed to the creation of these jobs and responsible for the creation not
GPC Adams, LLC which is the proposed developer of the building and therefore applicant for
this request. Please accept this letter and revised application form as clarification to this

distinction.

In order to secure Chemical Bank as the flagship tenant for the development, this PA210
certificate is being requested. The project is anticipated to bring the proposed jobs to Detroit
along with a significant increase to day?time density in downtown.

Respectfully submitted,

If

.t
A) i


 

Michigan Department of Treasury 
4507 (Rev. 06-09) STATE USE ONLY

 

Application Number Date Received LUCI Codo

 

 

 

 

Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

Issued under authority of Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.

Read the instructions page before completing the form. This application should be filed after the commercial rehabilitation
district is established. The applicant must complete Parts 1, 2 and 3 and file one original application form (with required attachments)
and one additional copy with the clerk of the local governmental unit (LGU). Attach the legal description of property on a separate
sheet. This project will not receive tax benefits until approved by the State Tax Commission (STC). Applications received after October
31 may not be acted upon in the current year. This application is subject to audit by the STC.

PART 1: INFORMATION {applicant must complete all fields)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applicant (Company) Name {applicant must be the owner of the facility) NAICS or SIC Code
GPC Adams, LLC 236220
Facility's Street Address City State ZIP Code
333 Fort Street, Suite 1350 Detroit MI 48226
Name of City, Township or Village [taxing authority} County School District Where Facility is Located
Detroit 
a no 82010
City [3 Township Village 
Date of Rehabilitation Commencement Planned Dale of Rehabilitation Completion 
07/01/2019 12/21/2021
Estimated Cost of Rehabilitation Number of Years Exemption Requested (1-10)
$72,000,000 10
Expected Project Outcomes (check all that apply)
increase CommerciaIActivity Retain Employment Revitalize Urban Areas
Create Employment El Prevent Loss of Employment Increase Number of Residents in Facility's Community
No. of jobs to be created due to facility's rehabilitation No. of Jobs to be retained due to facility's rehabilitation No. of construction Jobs to be created during rehabilitation
0 0 371

 

 

 

PART APPLICATION DOCUMENTS

Prepare and attach the following items:

General description or the taciiliy (year built. original use. most recent use, St [e 
number of stories. square Footage) a men of the economic advantages expected from the exemption

 

Description of the qualifed facility's proposed use Legal description

Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken 01' the :underserved area" (Quali?ed 
sta ailments on y)

Descriptive "5t 0f the ?xed building equipment that Wt" be a part Of the quali?ed facility Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certiiticaie for Quali?ed Retail Food
Establishments (Form 4753) (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)

Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility's rehabilitation

PART 3: APPLICANT CERTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

Name of Authorized Company Of?cer {no authorized agents) Telephone Number
Elie Torgow (313) 963-1212
Fax Number E-mail Address
eliet@sgdetroit.com
Street Address City State ZIP Code
333 W. Fort Street. Suite 1350 Detroit MI 48226

 

 

 

 

certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the Mammalian contained herein and in the attachments is truly descriptive of the property for which this
application is being submitted. Further, lam familiar with the provisions of Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended, and to the best of my knowledge the
company has complied or wit/be able to comply with all of the requirements thereof which are prerequisite to the approval of the application by the local
governmental unit and the issuance of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate by the State Tax Commission.

I further certify that this rehabilitation program, when completed, will constitute a rehabilitated facility, as de?ned by Public Act 210 of 2005, as amended,
and that the rehabilitation of this facility would not have been undertaken without my receipt of the exemption certi?cate.
Date

~5ignaluri7?nnzed Company D?lcer {no authorized agents} Title
x" 5/3 0/1 9
I Wat/W??



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Form 4507. Page 2

 

PART RECOMMENDATIONS (asseSSOr of LGU must complete Part 4) 
Provide the Taxable Value and State Equalized Value of Commercial Property. as provided in Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended. for the tax year
Immediately preceding the effective date of the certi?cate (December 31 of the year approved by the STC).

 

 

Taxable Value State Equalized Value (SEV)

 

Land

 

 

 

Buildingts)

The property to be covered by this exemption may not be Included on any other speci?c tax roll while receiving the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption. For example.
property on the Eligible Tax Reverted Property (Land Bank) speci?c tax roll cannot be granted a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption that would also put the same property

on the Commercial Rehabilitation speci?c tax roll.

 

By checking this box i certify that. it approved, the property to be covered by this exemption will be en the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption speci?c tax roll
and not on any other speci?c tax roll.

 

Name at Local Government Body

 

Name ofAsceseor (?rst and last name) Telephone Number

 

Fax Number Email Address

 

 

i certiij/ that. to the best of my knowledge. the information contained in Part 4 of this application is complete and accurate.
Date

 

Assessor's Signature

 

 

PART 5: LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACTION (cleric must complete Part 5}
Action Taken By LGU (attach a certi?ed copy of the resolution):

 

El Exemption approved for years, ending December 30. (not to exceed 10 years)

Exemption Denied

Date District Established {attach resolution for district) Local Unit Classi?cation identi?cation (LUCI) Coda School Code

 

 

 

 

PART 6: LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERK CERTIFICATION (clerk ,of.LGlJ mttet complete Part 6) f:

Clark's Name [?rst and last) Telephone Number

 

 

ax Number E-mall Address

 

Mailing Address City State ZIP Code

 

 

LGU Contact Person torAddittonai information LGU Contact Person Telephone Number Fax Number

 

 

 

icertiijr that, to the best of my knowledge. the information contained in this application and attachments is complete and accurate and hereby request
the State Tax Commission issue a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate, as provided by Public Act 210 of 2005. as amended.
Date

 

Clerk?s Signature

 

 

 

The clerk must retain the original application at the local unit and mail one copy of the completed application with attachments to:

State Tax Commission
PO. Box 30471
Lansing. MI 48909

 

Instructions for Completing Form 4507
Application for Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate

The Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate was created by Public Act 210 01?2005, as amended. The application is initially ?led,
reviewed. and approved by the LGU and then reviewed and approved by the State Tax Commission. According to Section 3 ot?PubIchet 210
of 2005. as amended, the LGU must establish a Commercial Rehabilitation District". Rehabilitation may commence after establishment of

the Commercial Rehabilitation District.

Owner [Applicant Instructions
1. Complete Parts I, 2 and 3 of application
2. Prepare and attach all documents required under Part 2 of the application:
General description of the facility (year built. original use, most recent use. number of stories. square footage)
Description of the quali?ed facility?s proposed use
Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken
Desoriptive list ofthe ?xed building equipment that will be a part ofthe quali?ed facility
Time schedule for undertaking and completing the facility?s rehabilitation
Statement of the coonomic advantages expected from the exemption
Legal description of the facility
Description of the ?underserved area? (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)
3. Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments:
a. Complete Part I of the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certification for Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments
(Form 4753). Submit to LGU clerk along with application.
b. Describe the ?underserved area? and provide supporting documentation to Show how the project area meets one or more of
the following requirements:

I. An area that contains a low to moderate income census tractts) which. based on per capitu income. are trusts below the
66.67 percentile ($23,643 in 1999 dollars) and a below average supermarket density
ii. An area that has a supermarket customer base with more than 50% living in a low income cenSus tract(s) which based on
the per capita income. are tracts below the 66.67 percentile ($23.643 in 1999 dollars)
An area that has demonstrated signi?cant access limitations due to travel distance and has no Quali?ed Retail
Food Establishments within two miles of the gem-center for an urban area or has no Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments
within nine miles of the gee-center for a rural area.
For assistance in determining the project area?s eligibility. visit and click on
Commercial Rehabilitation Act.

4. Submit the application and all attachments to the clerk of the LGU where the preperty is located.

Freshness-e

LGU Assessor Instructions
Complete and sign Part 4 either application.

LGU Clerk Instructions
1. After LGU action. complete Part 5 of the application.
2. A?er reviewing the application for complete and accurate information, complete Part 6 and sign the application to certify the
application meets the requirements as outlined by Public Act 2] 0 of2005. as amended.
3. Assemble the following for a complete application:
a Completed Appiication for Commercial Rehabilitation Etemptiari Certi?cate (Form 4507)
b. All required attachments listed under Part 2
c. A copy of the resolution by the LGU establishing the district
A certified copy of the resolution by the LGU approving the application
e. Complete Form 4753 (Quali?ed Retail Food Establishments only)
4. Submit the completed application to: State Tax Commission, PO. Box 30471. Lansing, Ml 48909

Application Deadline

The State Tax Commission must receive complete applications on or before October 31 to ensure processing and certi?cate issuance for the
following tax year. Applications received alter October 3] may not be processed in time for certi?cate issuance for the following tax year.
For guaranteed receipt by the State Tax Commission. send applications and attachments via certi?ed mail.

If you have questions or need additional information or sample documents, visit or call
(517) 373-2408.

April 19, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certificate for 25 West
Elizabeth Street and 2047 Woodward Avenue. Detroit, Michigan 48201 for GPC

Adams, LLC

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption
Certificate pursuant to Michigan Public Act 210 of 2005 (Act 210) for 25 West Elizabeth Street
and 2047 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48201. The parcels are located on the
southwest corner of the intersection of West Elizabeth Street and Woodward Avenue, which is
referred to herein as the ?Property" and further described in Attachment A. GPC Adams. LLC, a
development entity of Sterling GroUp, is the owner of the prOperty and has proposed plans to
redevelop the property into the new corporate headquarters of Chemical Bank.

Company Synopsis

Sterling Group, which has been actively involved for over 25 years and has participated in some
of the region's most signi?cant projects from historic restorations and renovations to operating in
all real estate sectors, is the project developer. Founded in 1988, Sterling Group are skilled at
new construction adaptive reuse/restoration techniques including the redeveloping of historic or

challenged buildings.

Chemical Bank, the proposed tenant and project partner, has also made significant
contributions to growing business in the City of Detroit. Chemical Bank led the strategic effort for
investment in Detroit?s neighborhoods through the Strategic Neighborhood Fund and has
committed $5 million to that effort. In the Marygrove Neighborhood, just south of Marygrove
College, Chemical Bank launched the Marygrove Renovation Project to assist Detroit
homeowners with home renovation grants and partnered with a local non-profit to develop
move-in ready homes in the neighborhood. These efforts help to stabilize the neighborhood by
improving property vaIUes and spurring additional development. In addition, Chemical Bank
assisted in the creation of the Detroit Home Mortgage program, designed to enable banks to
lend to qualifying homebuyers when a discrepancy exists between the actual cost of a home
and, often, a lower appraised value. Chemical Bank also provides various other special lending
programs with the City that ensure a path towards home ownership and rehabilitation in Detroit.

Project Synopsis

The proposed Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate (?Certi?cate") is being requested
for the property located in Downtown Detroit, Wayne County on the southwest corner of
Woodward Avenue and Elizabeth Street. The Property consists of two parcels of approximately
0.46 acres containing a ten-story 118,000 square foot of?ce building with a parking garage and
a surface parking lot. The Property is directly south of the iconic Fillmore Detroit at 2115
Woodward Avenue. The Property is also within walking distance to many of the City's amenities.

Request for Establishment of a Commerciai Examption Certi?cate at
25 West Elizabeth Street and 204? Woodmard Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48201 for
Chemical Bank

including Comerica Park, Ford Field, and Little Caesars Arena, the Detroit Opera House, Grand
Circus and Campus Martius Park, and the Detroit Athletic Club.

The current building at the Property was constructed in 1951. Despite being functionally
adequate at the time of initial construction, the building is obsolete in functionality. The building
lacks modern electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and technological systems. In addition, ?oor
plans and the overall building design does not support modern space planning or functionality of
space for today's demand. The building materials are also in poor condition, with water damage.
disrepair, and damage to the ceilings and walls observed throughout the building.

GPC Adams, LLC will demolish the current ten?story building in order to facilitate construction of
a 20-story office building to become the new headquarters of Chemical Bank. The new
headquarters will include ground-level commerciai space, ten?stories of parking Space, and
nine-stories of Class-A of?ce space. Chemical Bank is anticipated to occupy seven stories with
the remaining two stories leased to other office tenants.

The Property is located in Downtown Detroit and is encompassed within the Entertainment
District and the Downtown Business Improvement Zone (BIZ). Since creation of the BIZ in 2014,
popularity of Downtown Detroit has grown, with more amenities to provide safety and security,
cleanliness and maintenance, and much needed infrastructure planning to improve mobility, all
with the goal of drawing businesses, talent, and residents to downtown Detroit.

This investment will redevelop an underutilized and obsolete property in the heart of Downtown
complimenting and enhancing the redevelopment occurring in the Entertainment District by
bringing in new day-time density and the sought after professional talent to the district. The
project will also supply additional parking for local entertainment and sporting events within the
Downtown. Additional information on the project is included in Attachment A.

The Necessity for Tax Relief

Substantial investment is necessary to demolish the existing obsolete building and construct
viable and useable office space. Due to the vertical density and parking requirements, the
development project would not be possible without the receipt of an exemption certi?cate.

In order to secure Chemical Bank as the flagship tenant for the development, the operating
costs of the proposed redevelopment of the District needs to be kept as low as possible

(including the amount of payable property taxes).

PA 210 Request

This application documents the request for the establishment of a District. A 10-year tax
abatement certificate pursuant to PA 210 will also be requested.

Economic Advantages of the Rehabilitation

The project will increase day-time density, investment, and foot traf?c to the entertainment
center of Downtown.

The granting of the Certi?cate will not result in any fewer taxes to the City of Detroit in the short-
term or long-term. Upon successful redevelopment, the project will generate increased income
taxes, aid in the retention of skilled, local talent and fill a need for additional office and

2

Request for Establishment of a Commercial Rehabilitation Exemption Certi?cate at
25 West Elizabeth Street and 2047 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48201 for
Chemical Bank

commercial tenant spaces. The project will encourage continued redevelopment and
improvements in the surrounding area.

Sterling Group is committed to employing Detroit residents on projects and will utilize available
workforce training and presentations to ensure Detroit?based contractors and workers bene?t
from the redevelopment. On a short term basis, approximately 380 temporary construction jobs
will be created during demolition and new construction activities.

Chemical Bank as the proposed tenant anticipates relocating 300 existing jobs and is
anticipated to create an additional 200 jobs over the next five years in the City of Detroit. As a
result of this investment in the City of Detroit. Chemical Bank anticipates creating 100-200
additional jobs throughout the State of Michigan. Upon completion. there will be spin-off jobs
associated with the facilities and maintenance of the property.

On a long-term basis, following expiration of the 10-year abatement the new building will deliver
a significant increase in tax revenue. Over time. the successful redevelopment and cultural

growth will have a city-wide impact.

Closing

The redevelopment of 25 West Elizabeth Street and 2047 Woodward Avenue promotes the
redevelopment efforts already undemay in Downtown Detroit. Sterling Group is looking forward
to pursuing this redevelopment and continuing investing in Downtown Detroit.

Chemical Bank has been a Michigan?headquartered bank for its entire 100+ year history. The
move of its headquarters to Detroit illustrates Chemical Bank's ongoing commitment to
Michigan, to Detroit, and to in-state stability and growth. At the same time Chemical Bank will
continue to enhance all the communities it serves.

Respectfully submitted,
GPC Adams, LLC

    

By: Eli Halpern
Its: Authorized epresentative


313.963.1212

Attachments:

Attachment A: Detailed Project Description
Attachment B: Parcel Map

Attachment C: Incentive Information Chart
Attachment D: Support Letters

Attachment A

General Description

The proposed Commercial
Rehabilitation Exemption
Certificate is being requested for
the property located in Downtown
Detroit, Wayne County on the
southwest corner of Woodward
Avenue and Elizabeth Street. The
Property consists of two parcels of
approximately 0.46 acres
- containing a ten?story 118,000
square foot of?ce building with a
parking garage and a surface
parking lot. The Property is directly
'1 south of the iconic Fillmore Detroit
. .-. . -. at 2115 Woodward Avenue. The
Property is also within walking distance to many of the City?s amenities, including Comerica
Park, Ford Field, and Little Caesars Arena, the Detroit Opera House, Grand Circus and Campus
Martius Park, and the Detroit Athletic Club.

      

    

The Property is located in Downtown Detroit, - 

and in encompassed within the 00
Entertainment District and the Downtown 

Business Improvement Zone (BIZ). Since 
creation of the BIZ in 2014, popularity of mg 
Downtown Detroit has grown. with more an 
amenities to provide safety and security, 's-q
cleanliness and maintenance, and much 039
needed infrastructure planning to improve 
mobility, all with the goal of drawing . . a ..
businesses, talent, and residents to . .

downtown Detroit.

General Description of Proposed Use

The current building at the Property was constructed in 1951. Despite being functionally
adequate at the time of initial construction, the building is obsolete in functionality. The building
lacks modern electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and technological systems. In addition, floor
plans and the overall building design does not support modern space planning or functionality of
space for today's demand. The building materials are also in poor condition, with water damage,
disrepair, and damage to the ceilings and walls observed throughout the building.

Attachment A
Page 1 of 4

 

GPC Adams. LLC will demolish the current ten?story building in order to facilitate construction of
their new headquarters. The new headquarters will be approximately 20-stories tall and will
include ground-level retail space with ten-stories of parking and nine office stories. Chemical
Bank is anticipated to occupy seven stories with the remaining two stories leased to other office

tenants.

The ground level of the building will include approximately 7.500 square feet of commercial
space along Elizabeth Street and Woodward Avenue, in addition to the building lobby and
entrance to the parking ramp. Above the commercial component will be the parking ramp
housed within ten stories and nine stories of office atop. Each ?oor of office space contains
nearly 21.000 gross square feet while the top two floors provide outdoor terraces that overlook

Woodward Avenue and Comerica Park to the east.

Spurring off the successful entertainment district developments. this redevelopment will create a
place making opportunity at a major thoroughfare and district of the City. The centralized
location within the downtown core will allow for increased ridership of the existing public transit
systems and the property will also include bike racks and electric vehicle charging stations

within the parking structure levels.

Nature and Extent of the Rehabilitation

The current building has sustained signi?cant deferred maintenance and lacks in functional use
due to of?ce size and underutilized spaces. The building has been determined to be beyond its
useful life and not suitable for reuse. Successful redevelopment will require abatement of
hazardous materials and demolition of the building to facilitate redevelopment of competitive,

useful of?ce space in the City.

The new building will utilize current and upcoming building technologies for long-term
functionality. Included in the construction will be modern lighting. electrical supply, and data
systems to meet today's office and retail needs. as well as energy efficient HVAC systems that
keep comfortable working conditions in all areas of the building. Structural column placement
and the overall building design is expected to support maximum utility and modern space

demands.

Attachment A
Page 2 of 4

The design of the building will utilize the latest sustainable technology to promote energy
efficiency through the implementation of highly ef?cient mechanical, electrical and plumbing
systems as well as LED lighting and glazing systems. The of?ce ?oor plans will feature open
layouts with raised ?oors that will allow for maximum ef?ciency and flexibility to create modern
office spaces that meet the demand of today?s technological and space planning needs. The
open floor plans will also allow for vast amounts of natural Wherever possible the
design team for the project will be sourcing and specifying local materials to be used in the

construction of the building.

The proposed new building will cover nearly the entire majority of the property. The building will
meet and/or exceed building code requirements.

GPC Adams, LLC intends to apply for a 10-year real property tax abatement under the
provisions of a PA 210 Commercial Rehabilitation tax abatement. The remaining sources of
funds for the project are through Brownfield tax increment financing (TIF), and Owner Equity.
Hard-cost investment is estimated at $71-72 million dollars.

Descriptive List of the Fixed Building Equipment/Renovations
Demolition and new construction for the project include;

- Full Building Demolition

- Upgraded parking structure

- New Mechanical; plumbing and HVAC

. New, ef?cient and upgraded electrical; electrical work and communications
. Energy Efficient windows. curtain walls, and exterior doors

. Modern elevators

. Interior build?outs

. Interior doors/frames/hardware

- Finishes; drywall and steel studs/insulation. hard tile, flooring, painting
. Specialties; ?re extinguishers, toilet accessories, appliances

. Modern fire protection systems

. Improved thermal and moisture protection

Time Schedule

Demolition activities are anticipated to commence in Summer 2019. Completion of construction
activities is anticipated in December 2021.

Attachment A
Page 3 of 4

Statement of Economic Advantages

The project is anticipated to create immense spin-off spending in the downtown, create new
jobs in the heart of Detroit, and create spin-off jobs through facilities maintenance.

The granting of the Certificate will not result in any fewer taxes to the City of Detroit in the short-
term or long-term. Upon successful redevelopment, the development will generate increased
property and income taxes. Furthermore, the project will attract, retain and curate the local job
market, harness a talented workforce pool, increase daytime density, and strengthen security.

On a short term basis approximately 380 construction jobs will be created during demolition and
construction activities. The proposed redevelopment associated with the new headquarters will
relocate 300 existing jobs and create an additional 200 jobs over the next five years. Chemical
Bank anticipates creating 100?200 additional jobs throughout Michigan. In addition, future of?ce
tenants are anticipated to create additional spin?off jobs in the City. The development team has
presented at D2D meetings and intends to utilize skilled trades task force meetings to garner

opportunities to employ Detroit residents.

The increase in banking and tenant based jobs within the building will increase City collected
income tax at a 1.2% rate for non-residents and 2.4% rate for Detroiters.

On a long-term basis, following expiration of the 10?year abatement the building will deliver a
significant increase in tax revenue.

Legal Descriptions

25 West Elizabeth Street Parcel: 02000389
8 ELIZABETH 26-25-24 PLAT PT PARK LOTS L7 P27 CITY RECORDS, 2171 120 90

20 Woodward Avery?: Parcel: 02001865

WWOODWARD 4-3 PLAT PT PARK LOTS L7 P27 CITY RECORDS, 2/71 95.22 
97.14A

Attachment A
Page 4 of 4

Attachment 

.EE 34 no.5

U909 Elms

 




mCNn/wmAI


. .. Ema
Tamc?j m?

 

 

 

 

 

3.4mm
00;. com Donn:
03 Dow oomxa

mun Imnm_ Oman 1. mvb.
Finn 

 

Attachment 

 

(titty of Eetrnit
CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WW
Project Type Incentive Type - InvestmentT?lmount 7 1 District_ 'i
Mixed-Use lCommercial Rehabilitation $71-72mm Hard Cost Downtown Central
Of?ce/Retail Tax Abatement/ Investment Business District
LBrownfield Plan 

.EDSMi?rls__ 
Construction Post Construction
?Professional Non- Skilled Non?Skilled Professional Non- Skilled 'Non-Skilled
Professional Labor Labor Professional Labor Labor

_.321 __Z?ow?neM_ 

 

 

 

1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The development team has presented at a DZD session following determination of the bid needs and procedures to
obtain Detroit-based contractors for this project. The development team plans to also present at a Skilled Trades Task
Force, to assist in connecting with additional Detroiters for the project. The development team is committed to the City
of Detroit. Sterling GroLIp has operated within the City for a long time and is committed pursuing local workforce
trades.

Sterling Group and Chemical Bank will work closely with DEGC to ensure job opportunities are created for Detroit
residents and that they will be included in the planning processes of the project.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above Chart, i.e: job type, job
quali?cations, etc.

In the short-term, approximately 275 construction jobs are anticipated to be created. The proposed
redevelopment associated with the new headquarters will relocate 300 existing jobs and is anticipated to create
an additional 200-300 jobs in the city of Detroit over the next five years. Chemical Bank anticipates creating 100-
200 additional jobs throughout Michigan.

The Construction jobs will consist of;

. Abatement Asbestos workers

. Demolition - Laborers

. Civil Work Teamsters, Operators, Laborers

. Architectural/Interior Buildouts Laborers, Carpenters, Cement Masons, Bricklayers, Glaziers. Iron
Workers, Roofers, Painters, Tile Setters

. Elevators Elevator Constructors

- Fire Protection Pipe Fitters

. Mechanical Pipe Fitters, Sheet Metal Workers

- Plumbing - Plumbers

- Electrical Electricians

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?
This development is not anticipated to cause any relocation as existing tenants have plans to establish

leases in the adjacent building once current leases expire. The creation of approximately 500 new positions
in the City will likely result in the retention of or creation of new residents (estimated at a retained 300 jobs

and up to 200-300 newjobs)

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential
jobs?

Yes. We have discussed with the DEGC the need to participate in their D2D program. The development
team has presented at a DIED session January 2019 to ensure Detroit?based contractors and workers bene?t
from the project. Support letters have also been received by nearby businesses such as the Detroit Theater
District Business Association. NAACP, Michigan Chronicle. and City Market.

5. When is construction slated to begin?
Summer 2019

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

December 2021

*Please contact Linda Wesley at (313) 628-2993 or to schedule a date to attend the
Skilled Trades Task Force.

 

Attachment 

 DETROIT
. 133% THEATRE DISTRICT

l'
at

November 14, 2018

Ms. Jennifer Ross
City of Detroit
Historic District Commission

Re: 25 W. Elizabeth Street Annex Building and Chemical Bank Mixed Use project

DearJennifer:

On behalf ofthe Detroit Theatre District Association and the Grand Circus Park Conservancy, please
accept this letter of support for the proposed Chemical Bank Mixed Use project which also involves the
removal of the Elizabeth Street Annex building to allow the new construction. The Elizabeth Street
Annex building (25 W. Elizabeth Street), a 1950 addition to the historic 1922 Grand Park Centre building
(28 W. Adams Street), is a deterrent to the major improvement program of the Chemical Bank Mixed
Use building (2047 Woodward Avenue) that will be of substantial benefit to the community.

The Chemical Bank project solidifies a density of development adjacent to our Theatre District?s
northern edge which extends the substance of the Grand Circus Park Historic District. The stabilization
of the Grand Centre Building through the transfer of the mechanical and electrical systems in the
Chemical Bank project, will allow this major high occupancy facility to continue its contributions to the
Park district.

For the foregoing reasons, i strongly support the proposed Chemical Bank Mixed Use project.

Sincerely

-
David M. Di Rita

President -Detroit Theatre District Business Association
Board Member - Grand Circus Park Conservancy

 

October 29th, 2018

Mr. Marcel] R. Todd Jr.

Director

City of Detroit,

City Planning Commission

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Mr. Todd,

When I heard of a major bank like Chemical Bank choosing downtown Detroit as its new home, I was extremely
elated. I would like to express my full support for Chemical Bank?s proposed new headquarters located at 2047
Woodward Avenue in the Foxtown neighborhood. The decision to move Chemical Bank?s headquarters to Detroit
and its subsequent development is a signi?cant and historic moment for the economy in the City of Detroit.

I believe Chemical Bank?s attention to the unique needs of Detroit?s Citizens and Stakeholders will prove to be an
invaluable asset that will serve all Detroiters. With its ability to offer ?nancial literacy and educational services,
commercial and personal development opportunities, and an increasing number of obs in Downtown Detroit.

Chemical Bank?s commitment to the City of Detroit illustrated through the development of its Headquarters will
continue to lift Detroit towards even more success. The Development will also offer additional retail, commercial,
and residential space, offering more economic advantages to its neighbors. As a neighboring business owner we
appreciate the inclusion of the community in the planning process and are excited to see the economic and
community bene?ts of the new Chemical Bank Headquarters. I remain;

Sincerely Yours,

Paul Kado
Managing Partner, City Market

575 Brush St. Detroit, MI 48226 

1452 Randolph Street It Suite 400 Detroit, Michigan 48226 - 313-963-8100 .- 

 

 

October 31, 2018

To the City of Detroit City Planning Commission:

Real Times Media/The Michigan Chronicle is in full support ofChemical Bank?s proposed
development for its new Detroit headquarters located at 2047 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,

Michigan.

The move of Chemical Bank?s headquarters to Detroit and its subsequent development is an
added value to Detroit's economy, growth and future progress. With the hundreds of new jobs
and employees moving to Detroit through the potential development, it continues to help
enhance Detroit?s attractiveness to businesses and people across the globe.

Chemical?s new development also opens the doors for new jobs, financial literacy and
education as well as small business, commercial and personal development opportunities. Its
ongoing dedication to the city of Detroit exemplified in its move and the development - will
be an asset to this community. We also believe Chemical Bank has an awareness,
understanding and respect for Detroit?s diversity and will create an infrastructure that
embraces the needs of Detroit citizens, businesses and partners.

As a neighboring business/property owner, we appreciate the inclusion of the community in
the planning processes and are excited to see the economic and community benefits of the

new Chemical Bank Detroit headquarters.

Respectfully,

Hiram E. Jackson
President and CEO

 

8220 Second Avenue - Detroit, Michigan 48202 (313) 871-2087 phone (313) 871-7745 fax

 

Rev. Dr. Wendell Anthony,
President

Kamllia K. Landrum,
Deputy Executive Director

October 31, 2018

City of Detroit

City Planning Commission
2 Woodward Ave, #202
Detroit, MI 48226

To Whom It May Concern:

Please receive this letter in eager anticipation of the new development of Chemical Bank?s Headquarters, in
the city of Detroit. The city of Detroit is on a grand economic journey to rebuild not only downtown but
hopefully our neighborhoods as well. Chemical Bank?s commitment to the city of Detroit would include its
national headquarters and also retail, commercial, and residential space. It will offer even more economic

advantage to the citizens of Detroit.

The Chemical Bank organization has made more than just an economic development initiative in our city. We
remain optimistic about the bank?s commitment to offer educational services, financial literacy, and to
increase job opportunities in our city. Chemical Bank and its leadership have a track record of being
community sensitive and involved with neighborhood revitalization, as well as youth educational scholarship
and support. There are unlimited possibilities of having a bank that is not only concerned about product but is

also very clearly concerned about people.

Chemical Bank and its proposed new headquarters, located at 2047 Woodward Ave., serves as a signal to
companies and businesses standing at the brink of whether or not to invest in the city of Detroit. Hopefully this
new entity presenting such a unique opportunity to the city and its people will lead to even enhanced
development from the riverfront to Eight Mile Road. We are in full support of Chemical Bank and what this
opportunity represents. We are pleased for the city of Detroit and its people for the increased opportunities in
the area of economic and community benefits in order to make a significant difference. If you need any further
information, I am only too pleased to provide the same. I may be reached at (313) 347-2820 or

Willil?nwgimm_
Yours for Our City,
i: 

Rev. Dr. Wendell Anthony

Qtitp cf Eetrnit

Janice M- Whitey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/Chiefofstaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, May 29, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
CITY COUNCIL

900 Detroit Sound Conservancy, request to declare the Legendary Blue Bird Inn at
5 021 ireman an interim historic district.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
[313) 224 3260 - Fax {313) 224-1466

22 May 2019

 

Brenda Jones, City Council President
and Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk
Coleman A. Young Center

Detroit, MI 48226

Dear Honorable City Council President Jones,

I am writing to request that Detroit City Council designate The Legendary
Blue Bird Inn at 5021 Tireman on Detroit's West Side an interim historic
district in Detroit.

The Blue Bird Inn, opened before WWII, became a launchpad for musical and
social revolution during the Civil Rights movement in Detroit. Hundreds of
jazz musicians performed at The Blue Bird until the club's closing earlier this
century. These musicians, including national leaders in modern music like
Miles Davis and John Coltrane explored melody, and improvisation
on a platform that foregrounded Detroit's commitment to serious listening.
Local musicians, such as drummer Roy Brooks and saxophonist Wendell
Harrison, who both attended nearby Northwestern High School, apprenticed
at The Blue Bird, learning the ?Detroit way" to communicate with audiences
and fellow musicians.

The Blue Bird Inn building deserves to be protected under the City of
Detroit?s Ordinance in Chapter 25, Article 2 for Historic Districts. As the owner

of the property, we wish to see this nationally and globally important property
protected for future generations.

Sincerely,

f/
A


Detroit Sound Conservancy
440 Burroughs, Suite I95
Detroit, MI 48202

cc: Janese Chapman, Historic signation Advisory Board

Ill

5102 ?53 WW
?ogged eAaegeg?ej

201 9-05-29

90 0
900 Petition of Detroit Sound
Conservancy, request to declare the
Legendary Blue Bird Inn at 5021
ireman an interim historic district.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION

CITY COUNCIL

Louise Jones

From: Jasmine Barnes

Sent: Thursday, May 30, 2019 3:52 AM

To: Louise Jones; Deonte Agee; Andre Gilbert
Subject: Fwd: Petition 900 - Detroit Sound Conservancy
Attachments: 4934_001.pdf

Please refer to ped on the 6-4 New Business Agenda.

Get Outlook for 

From: Michael O'Connell

Sent: Wednesday, May 29, 2019 4:38:15 PM

To: Janese Chapman; Theresa Thomas; Jasmine Barnes
Cc: Andre Gilbert

Subject: Petition 900 - Detroit Sound Conservancy

Please see attached

Michael]. O?Connell

jr. Assistant City Council Committee Clerk
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Ave. Rm. 200

Detroit, MI 48226
Dj?? (313) 224-2014
a i oconnellm@detroitmi. gov

From: 
Sent: Wednesday, May 29, 2019 5:38 PM

To: Michael O'Connell

Subject: Attached Image

