52: 

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
OMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE - SUITE 332
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3860 . 

HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0738
LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION -

   
 

 

 

May 17,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

Re: Implementation of the 2019 2023 Labor Agreement between the City of Detroit
and the employees Represented by Service Employees International Union, Local
517M, (Non-Supervisory Unit)

The Labor Relations Division is recommending your Honorable Body?s of?cial approval of the
2019 - 2023 Master Agreement between the City of Detroit and the Service Employees
International Union, Local 517M, (Non-Supervisory Unit).

The Master Agreement covers wages, hours and other basic conditions of employment from
January 1, 2019 through June 30, 2023. It has been signed by all parties concerned and meets
with the approval of the Labor Relations Division.

We therefore respectfully request that your Honorable Body adopt the following resolution with

a Waiver of Reconsideration.

Respectfully submitted,

622%?

Hakim W. Berry
Chief Operating Of?cer

 

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit and the Service Employees International Union, Local
517M, (Non-Supervisory Unit) have met the standards for recognition as exclusive agents for
their members in the employ of the City of Detroit under Public Act 336 of 1947, as amended,

and

WHEREAS, the Labor Relations Division, under the direction of the Mayor, is
authorized and directed by the City Charter to act for the City of Detroit in negotiation and

administration of collective bargaining agreements, and

WHEREAS, the Labor Relations Division and the Service Employees International
Union, Local 517M, (Non-Supervisory Unit) have met and negotiated this labor agreement

which cover wages, hours and other economic conditions of employment through June 30, 2023.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Master Agreement between the
City of Detroit and the Service Employees International Union, Local 517M, (Non-Supervisory
Unit), be and is hereby approved and con?rmed in accordance with the foregoing

communication.

SEIU 517 NON-SUPERVISORY UNIT
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
2018-2023

Article 6. Dues and Fees Check Off

 

A.1. reference to dates when an employee may revoke dues DELETED to conform to the U.S. Supreme Court ruling
in Janus AFSCME

C. DELETED to conform to U. S. Supreme Court ruling Ja?s AFSCME
Article 8. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
B. DELETED language referencing Coalition of Unions which no longer exists
P. NEW Expedited Arbitration provides for a fast track system to discharge grievances.
W):

B. New Classification Seniority allows seniority in classification and not overall City Seniority to be used for
selection of shifts, work locate, vacation, transfer and promotion. City Seniority will still be used for Reduction in
Force in conformity with the Civil Service Rules.

 

City to provide seniority list and union to certify.

C.4. Lay off period changed from four (4) years to three (3) years to conform with changes to the Civil Service
Reduction in Force Rules.

I. DELETED language obsolete

Article 18. Employee Input

 

DELETED language referencing meetings with the City?s C.0.0, Purchasing Office and Labor Relations

NEW language commits to providing forum for employee input and allows union to request meeting to discuss
ef?ciencies, cost savings and operation changes

Article 32. Work Week, Work Day, Shift Premium

 

B. 1. NEW Language clarifying that work week is forty (40) hours. DELETED reference to 35 hour work week
E. Language clarifying that employees are paid bi-weekly and the use of direct deposit and debit cards

F. NEW Flex Time language added

Page 1 of 3

Article 33. Overtime
C.1. DELETED language referencing daily overtime.
2. NEW language clarifying that vacation and holiday counted towards overtime.
Article 34. Holidays and Excused Time Off
A. DELETED language referencing swing holidays.
Article 36. Vacations
DELETED Two-tiered Vacation Schedule; all employees earn vacation regardless of hire date.
Article 37. Temporary Assignments
NEW language added qualification for out of class assignments. DELETED prequaliflcation language.
Article 38. Jury duty
Language deleted and added to clarify that Jury Duty counted towards overtime.
Article 39. Hospitalization, Medical, Dental. Optical
A. Language deleted and added to clarify plan participation of RT. employees.
Language added that City has sole discretion to change insurance carriers.
B. 1. DELETED
2. DELETED
C. Language clarifying where medical plans can be found.
Language deleting use of grievance procedure.
D. Clarifying language as to what constitutes breach for City.
E. DELETED reference to Coalition.
Language added City has sole discretion to add plans; city will meet with unions to discuss changes.
F. DELETED reference to Coalition.

G. DELETED reference to Coalition.

Article 39A. Retiree Medical Benefits 

Page 2 of 3

Article 42. Wages and increases
A. Bargaining Unit to receive an eight (8) percent salary market adjustment.
Bargaining Unit members to transition to Step Code R.

Bargaining Unit members hired with no experience shall be hired at the minimum with increase each July 1in
accordance with Step code R.

B. DELETED Lump Sum payments.
C. DELETED Longevity.
D. DELETED Step Increases.
E. DELETED this language moved to Article 32.
Article 43. Clothing and Uniform Allowance
A. Language modified from every two (2) years to (1) yearly.
B. Language modified from every two (2) years to (1) yearly.
D. NEW employees to receive full complement of uniform at the end of probation period.
E. NEW newly hired to receive allowance after one (1) year.

Article Labor Management Restructuring Committee-- DELETED

Article 48. Modification and Duration
Contract expires June 30, 2023.
Request to modify 90 days prior to the expiration of the contract.

DELETED reference to the Emergency Manager, Michigan State Treasurer and Bankruptcy court.

Memorandum of Understanding

0 Re: Instructor-Public Works Equipment

Outlines equipment and office space that must be provided
0 Pesticide License.

City of Detroit to pay 100 percent of the required license.

Letter of Understanding

0 Retiree Health Benefits

Page 3 of 3

 

 

 

 

MASTER AGREEMENT

BETWEEN THE

CITY OF DETROIT

AND THE

SERVICE EMPLOYEES
INTERNATIONAL UNION

LOCAL 51 7-M
(NON-SUPERVISORY UNIT)

201 9 - 2023

 

 

 

 

Table of Contents

Preamble 1
1. Purpose and Intent 1
2. Union Recognition 2
3. Management Rights and Responsibilities 2
4. City and Union Rights and Obligations 4
5. Union Orientation 5
6. Dues and Fees Check-Off 5
7. Union Representation 6
8. Grievance and Arbitration Procedures 7
9. Discipline Procedure 11
10. Special Conference 13
11. Health and Safety 13
12. Seniority 14
13. Seniority of Union Representatives 17
14. Reductions in Force, Lay Off, Demotion, and Recall 17
15. Transfers and Promotions 20
16. Contractual Work 20
17. Preferential Hiring 21
18. Employee lnput 22
19. Leaves of Absence 22
20. Union Bulletin Board 23
21. Strikes and Lockouts 23
22. Severability 23
23. Employee Assistance Program 23
24. Career Development and Training 24
25. EEO and Affirmative Action Statement 25
26. Defense and Indemnification of Employees 25
27. Confidential Employees 25
28. Copies of the Agreement 25
29. Unemployment Benefits 26
30. Funeral Leave 26
31. Sick Leave 26
32. Work Week, Work Day, Shift Premium 27

i

33. Overtime 29
34. Holidays and Bxcused Time Off? 30
35. Unused Sick Leave on Retrrement32
36. Vacations 33
37. Temporary Assignments 34
38. Jury Duty 35
39. Hospitalization, Medical, Dental and Optical Care Insurance 36
40. Workers? Compensation 37
41. Death Benefits and Life Insurance 37
42. Wages 37
43. Clothing and Uniform Allowances 39
44. Private Car Mileage Reimbursement 39
45. Long Term Disability Benefits (Income Protection Plan) 40
46. Retirement Benefits 40
47. Modification and Duration 40
Memorandum of Understanding Re: Instructor-Public Works Equipment 42
Memorandum of Understandiong Re: Pesticide Licenses 43
Letter of Understanding: Retiree Medical Benefits 44

ii

Preamble 

This Agreement is entered into between the City of Detroit (the ?City?) and the Service
Employees .International Union Local (Non-Supervisory Unit) (the ?Union"]. Any
provisions in the City Employment Terms between the City of Detroit and the Union, collective
bargaining agreements, memoranda of understanding, practices, and/or supplemental agreements
that are not expressly referenced in this Agreement or any addenda thereto and that are inconsistent
with this Agreement or any addenda thereto are null and void as of the effective date of this
Agreement.

NOTE: The headings used in this Agreement and Appendices neither add to nor subtract from the
meanings but are for reference only.

1. Purpose and Intent

A. The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth wages, hours, terms and conditions of
employment for the duration of this Agreement and to promote orderly and peaceful
employment relations in the interest of serving the citizens of the City of Detroit,

B. To effectuate this purpose, this Agreement serves to establish employment relations
and workplace processes and functions that serve the interest of the community,
achieve the goals of customer service, excellence for citizens, businesses and
visitors of Detroit, achieve financial stability for the government of the City of
Detroit, provide effective community policing, safe. and stimulating programs for
young people, improve the environment in neighborhoods to instill civic pride and
encourage new development, and to promote job security of City employees. To
these ends, the City and the Union encourage to the fullest degree, friendly and
cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and among
all employees.

C. The City is legally and morally obligated to provide equality of opportunity,
consideration and treatment to all employees in an objective manner. Accordingly,
it will establish reasonable policies, practices and rules, and exercise its discretion
within this Agreement in that vein. The City will act without regard to race, color,
creed, national origin, age, political orientation, sex, sexual orientation, marital
status, or disability or any other protected category in accordance with applicable
State and Federal laws. The City will continue to comply with all laws, rules and
regulations which apply to it and its agents.

D. Nothing in this Agreement will be interpreted to limit an individual employee's
right to file a claim with a Federal or State agency or court. However, in the event
that an employee ?les such a claim, the employee will not be entitled to seek
duplicative monetary remedies through the grievance arbitration procedure of this
Agreement. The grievance and arbitration procedure will be exclusive, final and
binding with respect to any type of claim alleging a violation of this Agreement.

2. Union Recognition 
Consistent with applicable law, the City recognizes the Union as the exclusive
bargaining representative for all employees within the classifications listed in
Appendix A.

The classifications covered by this Agreement are subject to changes in title, duties,
responsibilities and quali?cations, consistent with the law and terms of this
Agreement. Such changes to a classification will not result in a change in current
bargaining unit status or representation, except when two or more classifications
are combined or consolidated, in which case the parties and any other applicable
union will negotiate with respect to bargaining unit status or representation. If
agreement is not reached, this dispute will be submitted to the Michigan
Employment Relations Commission for resolution. The positions may also be
added to or eliminated, consistent with the law and terms of this Agreement, with
new positions performing similar work being placed within the same bargaining
unit. The City may not re?classify or re?title positions for the purpose of
discriminating against the Union, or for the purpose of removing bargaining unit
work from being covered by this Agreement.

Non-bargaining unit members te.g., provisional employees, temporary employees
and private individuals or entities] will not be used to perform bargaining unit work
for the purpose of discriminating against the Union, or for the purpose of removing
bargaining unit work from coverage under this Agreement. Provisional employees
and temporary employees will not replace or supplement bargaining unit employees
in classifications in the recognized bargaining unit, unless it is impossible to hire
Civil Service status employees either from within or from outside the City service,
or in an emergency.

When an operational function performed by a bargaining unit member remains
unchanged, but changes location, representation rights will not be affected by the
location change. Employees will have the right to remain members in the
applicable bargaining unit.

provision in this Article 2 is intended to, and should not be interpreted to, limit
the rights of a party to this Agreement under Article 16 (Privatization).

3. Management Rights and Responsibilities

The City has the right and obligation to operate and manage its affairs in all respects
in accordance with its responsibilities and powers of authority in accordance with
applicable law.

Every incidental duty connected with operations enumerated in job descriptions is
not always specifically described.

The City will have the righl and obligation to determine and establish the policies,
goals and scope of its operations. Consistent with its Operational needs. the City
may reasonably determine and implement: work schedules/shifts, vacation
schedules, ?ex time, the goals and methods and processes by which suchlwork is
performed, the qualifications of employees assigned to do the work, and the below-
listed rights and obligations provided they do not con?ict with the terms of this
Agreement. Except as specifically limited by the terms of this Agreement or
applicable law, these rights and obligations include, but are not limited to:

1. Implement changes in the structure of department operations, including
establishment or consolidation of service areas and work locations within
the department;

2. Cease or outsource functions or operations, consistent with this
Agreement;

3. Initiate new functions or operations;

4. Provide appropriate training, education, performance evaluation and job

assignments for employees;

5. Establish reasonable qualifications and methods for hire, transfer,
assignment and promotion in employment;

6. Revise, create, combine, and/or eliminate classifications, duties and/or
positions, subject to the terms of this Agreement. The City will notify the
Union President and participate in a meeting to discuss implementation of
any revised, new or eliminated classification, duty or position, at least ten
(10) working days prior to implementation. The Union President may
provide input during the meeting with respect to any proposed changes;

7. Initiate promotions and disciplinary actions;

8. Determine personnel hiring and reductions;

9. Discipline and discharge employees for just cause;

10. Recruit, assign, transfer employees to positions within the employee?s
department;

11. Establish reasonable rules and policies, consistent with the operational

needs of the City; adopt and enforce work rules and policies applicable to
this unit and/or all employees, including but not limited to the Universal
Work Rules attached hereto as Appendix 

12. Determine the requirements related to an employee?s job functions
including, but not limited to, equipment, tools, clothing and uniforms;

13. Enforce state and local licensing and other requirements; the City will pay
fora bargaining unit employees? attainment or renewal of required licenses,
bonding, training, registration or certification to the extent such payments
are incorporated in the applicable department?s budget as of the effective
date of this Agreement; nothing in this Agreement obligates the City to
include such payments in a department?s budget;

14. Lay off employees for lack of work or lack of funds;

15. Determine methods, means and employees necessary for departmental
operations; and

16. Control the departmental budget.

4. City and Union Rights and Obligations

Any member will have access to a Union Representative from his/her bargaining
unit. When such a request is made to a supervisor, permission for services from or
discussion with a designated bargaining unit representative will be granted without
undue delay with regard to reasonable consideration of whether the request
adversely impacts operations. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld. This
right will not be abused. When a Union representative goes into a City operation
for the purpose of conducting Union business, the City must be notified of his/her
presence and the nature of their business, prior to arrival or as soon as reasonably
possible. If the employee's requested representative is unavailable, the Union will
substitute another Union representative in the applicable unit, if on duty
and available.

The City will provide to the Union stewards phone numbers for City agents who
should be contacted when the need for a visit arises. If the Union representative is
unable to reach the applicable City agents at such numbers, the representative may
contact the immediate supervisor within the area of concern. Both the Union and
City will act reasonably in arranging for Union representatives to have access to the
work site for the purpose of conducting Union business with due regard to for
departmental operations.

The Union and City will have the right and obligation to assist and c00perate with
each other in effectuating the provisions of this Agreement.

The Union and City will have the right to grieve the interpretation and application
of the terms herein and to exercise such other rights as are set forth in this
Agreement.

Activities involving internal management of the Union may be conducted during
non-working hours. These activities will not interfere with normal operations of
any department or work area of the City.

Requests for meetings by Union officials other than Special Conferences will be
scheduled at a mutually agreeable time, and both sides will act reasonably in the
scheduling of such.

The City will timely provide to the Union, upon request, information, data, and/or
records that are relevant to the Union?s obligations as exclusive bargaining
representative. The requests and responses will be reasonable and carried out in
good faith. The duty to provide information pursuant to this Article 4 is limited to
information, data and/or records that are in the City?s possession, custody or control.

5.. Union Orientation

Within thirty (30) days of a new employee being hired by the City into a bargaining
unit position covered by this Agreement, the City will continue its practice of
providing the applicable Union with the name, address, classification and hire date
of the new employee. The City will also provide the applicable Union with the name,
address, classification and rehire date of any employee returning from layoff or
otherwise separated from payroll or from a leave of longer than six (6) months.

The City conducts periodic orientation for new hires. The City will allow a
designated Union official to meet with new bargaining unit employees for up to a
half hour during new hire orientation at a time and location mutually agreed to
between Labor Relations and the Union. Management officials will not be present
during this meeting.

The City and the Union will agree on a schedule for the Union to address all
bargaining unit employees during the employees? work day for up to twenty (20)
minutes once per calendar year, taking into account, including, but not limited to,
departmental operations, available space and the like.

6. Dues and Fees Check-Off
Dues Deductions

1. The City agrees to deduct Union dues and initiation fees from the wages of
any employee who executed a written authorization for payroll deduction
of such dues and initiation fees. An employee?s written authorization for
Union dues deduction and/or initiation fees will remain in full force and
effect during the term of this Agreement unless revoked by written notice,
executed by the employee, received by the City Finance Department and
the Union. At the expiration of this Agreement, the dues and fees obligation
continues yearly, unless revoked as outlined above. However, an employee
may revoke in writing such authorization for Union dues payroll deduction
at any time. The City will provide the Union with a legend accompanying
dues payments or a similar document, either in hard copy or electronic

form that identifies the Union?s dues paying members as well as the
amouht of dues and/or fees paid by each member for that payroll cycle.

2. Dues and/or initiation fees will be authorized, levied and certified in
accordance with the Union?s Constitution and By-Laws. Each employee
and the Union hereby authorize the City to rely upon and to honor
certifications by the applicable designated Union official, regarding the
amounts to be deducted and the legality of the adopting action specifying
such amounts of Union dues. The City agrees to comply with such dues
deduction authorization form which were executed by City employees.

3. Where administratively feasible, dues deduction authorizations of
employees who are transferred or who work out-of?class, in a position
represented by the Union, on a temporary basis will not be canceled as a
result of such transfer or out?of-class work, and if an employee returns
from a leave of absence, layoff, or temporary promotion, or transfer out of
the bargaining unit, the authorization will resume and will not require any
further action on the part of the employee or the Union.

Other Deductions.

l. The City agrees to deduct from the wages of any employee who is a member
of the Union a Political Action Committee deduction as provided
for in a written authorization executed by the employee in accordance with
the standard form used by the City or previously executed by the employee.
This deduction may be revoked by the employee at any time by giving
written notice to both the Finance Department and to the Union.

2. Where administratively feasible, PAC deduction authorizations of
employees who are transferred or who work out?of?class on a temporary
basis will not be canceled as a result of such transfer or out-of-class work,
and if an employee returns from a leave of absence, layoff, or temporary
promotion, the authorization will continue in effect and will not require any
further action on the part of the employee or the Union.

Administrative Costs
The City agrees to refrain from reinstituting the recurring administrative fee
previously charged to the Union. The parties acknowledge that the cost of

establishing and administering payroll deductions has been considered by the
parties in their negotiation of the overall terms of this Agreement.

7. Union Representation

It is mutually recognized that the principle of proportionate representation is a
sound and sensible basis for determining the number of Union representatives.

In each department, district, building, work location, unit, area, site, division or
floor (?Work Unit?), bargaining unit employees on each shift will be represented
by one Union representative who will be a regular employee working in that work
uniton that shift. Work Units will be defined by the Employer. Where such work
unit is permanently or temporarily discontinued in its current form, Union
representation will be adjusted consistent with this Article 7 Union
Representation. In the absence of the Union representative, an alternate Union
representative will represent the employees in that work unit. The Union will
notify Labor Relations of the names and locations of representatives
selected. At the request of the Union, Labor Relations may agree to exceptions to
this provision.

In the absence of a Union representative and his alternate, the Union will notify the
department of a designated representative and will confirm such
designation in writing.

The number of Union representatives and districts will be that number negotiated
between the Union and the City's representatives for each department.

The Union will reimburse the Employer for all full-time and part?time paid Union
officials, including any additional compensation arrangements (including un?
worked overtime) paid to employees holding Union positions. If the Union fails to
reimburse the City within 45 days of the end of a calendar month the City will have
no further obligation to pay such officials for Union time thereafter until all
reimbursement obligations and arrears are satisfied. Union representatives may
elect to use vacation or compensatory time for attendance at Union meetings,
conferences, conventions and other time on Union activities not included in
activities in paragraph below, or take unpaid time off.

Working Stewards, Chief Stewards and Union officials will request time off for
Weingarten representation duties, grievance processing and investigation (up to and
including arbitration), and negotiating collective bargaining agreements from their
supervisor and the supervisor will reasonably grant or deny such requests in writing.
This time will be part of the Union official?s paid work day.

8. Grievance and Arbitration Procedures

Should any dispute arise between the City and the Union concerning the
application or interpretation of this Agreement, an earnest effort will be made to
settle such dispute in accordance with the below Grievance Procedure.

Any grievance under this Agreement which is not filed within fifteen (15)
working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after the grievant
knew or should have known of the grievance arising will not be considered a
timely grievance.

VT:

The parties agree that exchanging pertinent information regarding a grievance is
beneficial to both parties in attempting to resolve a grievance. The Union will
be advised of the factors considered in the imposition of discipline and will have
the right to request copies of all information or statements pertaining thereto, and
all information which the City proposes to present in defense of the grievance.
Management will be advised of the basis of the grievance and have the right to
request copies of all information or statements pertaining thereto and which the
Union proposes to present in support of the grievance. It is agreed that any
information requested in accordance with the above provisions which is not made
available to the other party will not be admissible as evidence in any arbitration
hearing.

Any agreement reached between the City and the Union under the Grievance
Procedure will be binding upon the City, the Union and the employees concerned
and cannot be changed by any individual.

All claims for back wages will be limited to the amount of wages that the
employee would have earned, less any compensation received for temporary
employment obtained subsequent to his/her removal from the City payroll, and
payments from Unemployment Insurance, Social Security Disability, City-
Funded Long-Term Disability Insurance, or Sickness and Accident Insurance.
Where appropriate, the City will reimburse those agencies and insurance funds
so as to not affect the employee's equity therein.

The City will not be required to pay back wages covering a period more than
fifteen (15) working days prior to the date a written grievance is filed.

In the case of a pay shortage in which the employee would not have been aware
before receiving his pay, any adjustment made will be retroactive to the
beginning of the pay period covered by such pay, if a grievance is filed within
the fifteen (15) working days within receipt of such paycheck.

The grievance procedure contained in this Agreement will be the exclusive
grievance procedure and remedy for all members of the bargaining unit claiming
a violation of this Agreement. Resolutions under the grievance procedure are
final and binding.
The release of a Union representative for the grievance process below will be
without loss of time or pay.
Grievance Steps

Emplovec, Supervisor and Steward

Any employee having a complaint may report the same to his/her Supervisor.
The employee may request a Steward or other Union representative, and the three
will attempt to resolve the matter. Where the matter involves imposition of
disciplinary suspension or above, any grievances will be filed at Step 2.

Department Head Level

Grievances involving acts/omissions at the supervisory level, including without
limitation employee suspensions and discharges, may be filed at this step

Step 3.

Step 4.

initially. For other grievances, if a satisfactory adjustment is not obtained under
Step 1, the grievance will be reduced to writing on a standard grieva'nce form
setting forth all facts believed to be relevant to the dispute, and the grievance will
be signed by the applicable Union President or Steward. When the grievance
involves allegations concerning an individual employee, the Union will ask the
employee to sign the grievance. An employee?s failure to sign a grievance will
not affect the progression of the grievance. The written grievance must then be
submitted to the Department Head. A meeting will be held at a mutually
convenient date and time to discuss the grievance. Up to two (2) Union
Representatives, other than the Grievant, may attend the Step 2 meeting. Any
resolution reached at this meeting will be reduced to writing. The Department
Head will furnish the Union with his/her written decision within twenty (20)
working days of the Step 2 meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.

Labor Relations Division Level

Grievances involving acts/omissions at the department head level may be filed
at this step initially. For grievances from Step 2, if a satisfactory adjustment is
not obtained under Step 2, or timely decision is not made, the Union may request
a Step 3 meeting with the Labor Relations Director. Such appeal and request for
a Step 3 meeting must be submitted in writing to the Labor Relations Director
within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the Department Head's Step 2
answer, if the Department Head?s Step 2 decision was timely. Not more than two
(2) Union Representatives may attend the Step 3 meeting, and the Labor
Relations Director may designate members of his staff to represent the City. Any
resolution reached at this meeting will be reduced to writing. The Labor
Relations Director or his?her designee will furnish the Union with his/her
decision within thirty (30) working days of the Step 3 meeting.

Arbitration

a. If a grievance is not settled after it has gone through Step 3 of the
Grievance Procedure, the Union must file a written notice of appeal and
intent to submit the dispute to arbitration with the Labor Relations
Director. The Notice of Intent to Arbitrate must be filed within fourteen
(14) calendar days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) from
receipt of the Labor Relation Director?s Step 3 answer.

b. Arbitrations will generally be heard by a member of a permanent umpire
panel consisting of individuals mutually agreed?to by the City and the
Union. Arbitrators will hear cases on a rotating basis. In non-disciplinary
contract interpretation cases, however, the parties may agree to have the
dispute arbitrated pursuant to the Labor Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association. The Arbitration's fees and expenses will be borne
equally by the parties, and all other expenses will be borne by the party
incurring them. The Grievant, one (1) witness, and one (1) Union
Representative will not lose pay for time off the job while attending the
arbitration proceeding. Other employees may use banked time to attend

K.

the hearing for the purpose of offering testimony, or to prepare for the
hearing. 

The decision of the Arbitrator will be final and binding on the Union and its
members, the employees involved and the City and its agents and
employees. The Arbitrator will have no power to add to, subtract from, or
modify any of the terms of this Agreement. The authority of the Arbitrator
is limited to the interpretation and application of the provisions of this
Agreement. The Arbitrator will have no authority to apply the provisions of
an expired collective bargaining agreement between the Union and the City,
unless the grievance at issue was submitted or arose during the term of that
agreement, or grant any right or relief for any alleged grievance under the
terms of an expired collective bargaining agreement between the Union and
the City, unless the grievance at issue was submitted or arose during the
term of that agreement.

The arbitrator will limit hisfher decision strictly to the interpretation, application or
enforcement of this Agreement and hefshe will be without power and authority to
make any decision:

1. Contrary to, or inconsistent with, or modifying or varying in any way, the
terms of this Agreement.

2. Concerning grievances filed with the Civil Service Commission for final
resolution pursuant to provisions of the City Charter or to the Mayor
pursuant to applicable State Law.

3. Granting any wage increases or decreases.

4. Granting any right or relief for any period of time whatsoever prior to the
execution date of this Agreement.

No settlement at any Step of the grievance procedure will be used as a precedent
for the resolution of future grievances or in any arbitration and will not be
admissible in evidence in any future arbitration proceeding, unless the parties
otherwise stipulate in writing.

A grievance will be deemed untimely, settled and withdrawn unless advanced
timely (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) through the grievance
procedure, unless the parties have agreed in writing that the time limits would be
waived or extended. If the City fails to provide a timely answer at Step 2 or Step
3 of the grievance procedure, the grievance will advance to the next step after the
Union notifies Labor Relations of the City?s failure to provide a timely response,
unless the Union withdraws the grievance in writing.

Any extensions of time limits provided for in this Article 8 Grievance and
Arbitration Procedures must be agreed to by Labor Relations in writing.

10

Expedited Arbitration: An expedited arbitration system shall be used for all appeals
to arbitration that involve discharge/termination of a City of Detroit employee. The
next arbitrator on the panel shall be contacted within five (5) calendar days of the
appeal.

The selected Arbitrator shall be requested to hear the case within forty?five (45)
calendar days of being assigned the case. The forty-five (45) day calendar limit may be
waived by mutual written agreement of the parties. If the selected Arbitrator provides
notice that the forty?five (45) calendar day time limit cannot be met, the next arbitrator
in rotation on the panel will be selected to meet the expedited time frame.

Briefs, if any, shall be filed by the parties simultaneously with the Arbitrator within
fourteen (14) calendar days from the last day of the arbitration hearing. There shall be
no extension for the filing of briefs.

The Arbitrator shall render a written decision within fourteen (14) calendar days from
the closing of the record. By mutual agreement, the Arbitrator shall issue a bench
decision.

The cost of the arbitration shall be shared equally by the parties in accordance with the
Grievance Procedure.

Court Reporting and transcript costs, if any, shall be paid by the party requesting the
services unless the parties agree to share the cost. In any event, each party shall pay
the cost for their copy of the transcript.

9. Discipline Procedure

The City retains the right to promulgate, amend and modify disciplinary rules,
procedures and penalties, giving the Union at least fourteen (14) days advanced
notice, or if not practicable, as much advance notice as possible taking into account
the operational needs of the City.

All disciplinary action taken against an employee will be for just cause and
subscribe to the general philosophy that the primary purpose of disciplinary action
is to correct employee behavior or conduct. The City will utilize a progressive
discipline process; however, the City reserves the right to reasonably invoke more
severe discipline, up to and including, termination. The issuance of disciplinary
action will take place in a timely manner with due regard for the Employer's right
to conduct workplace investigations of employee misconduct. Any dispute
regarding the timeliness of the discipline will be resolved through the grievance
procedure.

NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: Notification will be given to the
appropriate Union representative of any disciplinary action taken against any
member which may result in any official entries being added to the employee?s

ll

personnel file. Both employee and the Union representative will be given a copy of
such official entry. In all cases when a supervisor contemplates issuance of
disciplinary action, the supervisor will inform the employee and allow the
employee the opportunity to have Union representation. If the employee?s requested 
representative is unavailable, the Union will substitute other Union
representatives in the represented unit, if on duty and available. If the employee
declines Union representation, he/she will indicate so in writing and a copy will be
given to the Union.

When the department has decided to issue discipline, the employee will be allowed
adequate time and an available area to discuss the discipline with his/her steward,
or in the absence of a steward an appropriate Union representative. In the case of a
suspension or discharge, where Union representation is available, this discussion
will take place prior to the employee leaving City property. Upon request the
management representative who is present and issuing the action will discuss the
disciplinary action with the employee and his/her steward. Exceptions to this
procedure would be in situations where the suspended or discharged employee is
absent without leave, or the parties agree that such discussion would not be
beneficial at this time.

In the case of an oral reprimand, a notation by date and subject only will be placed
in the employee's personnel file.

All disciplinary actions will be subject to the grievance procedure. It will be the
responsibility of the grievant to keep the Union and City informed of his/her
mailing address and telephone number(s) at which he/she may be reached for
purposes of notification. Certified mail to the address of record will constitute
proper notification to the grievant.

During investigation, an employee will have the right to request to have his/her
steward present if the employee reasonably believes that his/her statements may
lead to disciplinary action. Before an employee is required to make any statements
pertaining to his/her possible misconduct, the employee will have the opportunity
to discuss the matter first with his/her steward.

PERSONNEL RECORDS: All employees covered by this Agreement will have
the right to review his/her personnel records pursuant to applicable law.

USE OF PAST RECORD: In imposing any discipline on a current charge or in
evaluating an employee for promotion or transfer, management will not take into
account any prior infractions or disciplinary action taken which occurred more than
sixteen (16) months previously.

GUIDELINES FOR ADMINISTRATION OF A CORRECTIVE
DISCIPLINE PROGRAM:

1. Disciplinary action should be appropriate and take into account both the
offense and the employee.

12

Factors which should be considered in imposing discipline in each case

are:

a. The seriousness and circumstances of the particular offense.

b. The employment history of the employee involved including
length of service.

c. The recency and nature of prior disciplinary action taken with
reSpect to the employee.

d. Prior departmental action in comparable situations.

2. Any published departmental standards or rules governing employee conduct

or expected work performance should be fairly and consistently applied.

10.. Special Conference

Special Conferences for important matters including problems of health and safety and
periodic discussions of substantial issues which are of concern to Union members may be arranged
for a mutually agreeable date and time between the Union President and the Department Head or
hisfher designated representative upon the request of either party. Either party may request the
presence of a representative from Labor Relations. Such meeting will be between representatives
of the department, and no more than three (3) and at least two representatives of the Union.

11. Health and Safety

A. The City recognizes its responsibility to provide safe and healthful working
conditions. and the Union recognizes it's their obligation to cooperate in the
maintenance and improvement of those conditions.

B. All existing safety practices and provisions in expired agreements will remain in
effect until such time as the City may amend them pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement, consistent with the operational needs of the City and any applicable
safety standards.

C. All protective equipment and devices, first aid kits or similar provisions, physical
examination or other tests required by the Employer will he provided at no cost to
the employee.

D. The City will act in compliance with Federal, State and Local legislation relating
to use or storage of hazardous materials and incidence of contagious disease in the
work place. Union representatives will be informed of any testing of employees or
precautionary steps taken because of exposure to hazardous materials or a
contagious disease which has occurred within the worksite where members of
his/her Union are employed.

l3

12. Seniorjty

SENIORITY is hereby defined as the length of continuous service beginning on
the date of legal certification to a position in the classified service of the City of
Detroit. Seniority, as defined above, is established to serve as a basis for
determining employee seniority rights provided for in this Agreement including the
order of demotion or lay off in the event of a reduction in force and the
reemployment rights of employees.

Note: Seniority is not the same as "service time" as utilized for the various
economic benefit provisions.

The seniority date of employees in the bargaining unit who were initially hired into
Federal Economic Opportunity Act (FEOA) Service classes will be made
retroactive to the date of placement to a position in such FEOA Service class.

CLASSIFICATION SENIORITY is hereby defined as the length of time an
employee is assigned and continuously employed in the same classification after
the effective date of legal certification or promotion to the classification.
Classification seniority shall be the measure used for determining rights to shift,
work location, vacation selection, voluntary transfers and promotion in series.
However, City Seniority shall be used for reduction in force purposes.

The City will provide the classification seniority dates for its members. Upon
receiving this information, the Union agrees to review and certify the list by
signature of its business representative and the Union President. The signed list
shall be the official list to determine classification seniority. The list will remain in
effect for the duration of this agreement.

Where two or more people have the same classification seniority date, the Union
agrees that it will use the Resolving Ties in Seniority as set forth in this article.

CONTINUOUS SERVICE will mean employment by the City of Detroit without
interruption or breaks. The following will not be considered breaks in service.

Note: Seniority is not the same as "service time" as utilized for the various
economic benefit provisions.

1. Service in the Armed Forces of the United States up to four (4) years, or
five (5) years if requested by the Government as provided under Federal
law.

2. Absence from work due to injuries compensated for under the Workers'

Compensation Act of the State of Michigan.

3. Appointment or election to an exempt non?classified position of the City of
Detroit.

14

4. Lay off as a result of a reduction in force for a period not exceeding three
(3) years.

5. Leave of absence to serve in a qualifying employee labor organization for
the term of said employment.

6. Leaves of absence for Peace Corps service up to two (2) years.
7. Other approved leaves of absence for a period not exceeding one (1) year.

Employees may be granted a personal leave by the City for up to one (1) year.
Seniority accrued prior to the leave will be retained but employees will not
accumulate additional seniority for the period of the leave, except that this provision
will not apply to leaves related to military or Peace Corps.

LOSS OF SENIORITY: An employee will lose his/her seniority for the following
reasons only:

1. Discharge or permanent removal from the payroll and the separation is not
reversed through the grievance procedure.

2. Retirement.
3. Resignation or voluntary quit, which will include:

(3) Failure to report within five (5) working days after receiving notice
of recall from lay off.

Failure to report back to work within five (5) working days after
expiration of an approved leave of absence or extension thereof

Absence from work for three (3) consecutive working days without
notice to the Employer unless he/she can demonstrate that he/she
was physically or mentally incapable of notifying the department of
his/her inability to come to work.

4. For Seasonal Employees, failure to report for work in any given season
within five (5) days of the date of notice to report for work for that season.

ADJUSTMENT FOR SEASONAL, TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME
EMPLOYMENT:

If an employee in a special service classification employed on a seasonal, temporary
or part-time basis is subsequently placed in a regular full-time classified position

the following adjustments to seniority will be made:

1. In the case of the seasonal or temporary employee, for each twelve (12)
month period of employment in which the employee worked six (6) months

15

or less, six (6) months will be deducted from the length of continuous
employment. 

2. In the case of the part-time employee, for each period of employment in
which the employee worked on a half?time or less basis, the employee will
be awarded one-half seniority credit and the length of continuous
employment adjusted accordingly.

Any adjustment of seniority under this section will be made from the
employee's certification date as a seasonal, temporary or part?time
employee.

RESOLVING TIES IN SENIORITY:

1. Where two or more persons have the same seniority date, the employee with
the highest standing (examination rating) on the eligible register from which
the employees were certified will be deemed as having the greater seniority.
In the event of identical examination ratings, the employee with the earliest
examination date will be deemed as having the greater seniority. In the
further event of identical examination dates, the employee who first
submitted his/her employment application (as measured by the examination
number) will be deemed as having the greater seniority.

2. In the case of inducted employees with the same seniority date, employees
will be ranked in accordance with their length of continuous service in the
department, agency or activity in which they were employed when inducted
into the classified service. Insofar as possible to determine, such continuous
service will include any adjustments in accordance with procedures outlined
in this Article.

3. Notwithstanding the above, in all cases of identical seniority dates, persons
entitled to preference under the Michigan Veteran's Preference Act will be
deemed as having greater seniority than those employees without such
preference.

PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES:

New employees hired by the City and others initially placed into the bargaining unit
will be considered as probationary employees for the first six (6) months of their
employment depending on the classification except as provided below. The City
may extend in its sole discretion this probationary period for up to an additional six
(6) months. This decision may not be grieved. The reasons for the extension will
be given in writing to the employee, and a copy given to the Union upon request.

The Union will represent probationary employees for the purposes set forth in this
Agreement except separation from City service or reversion to the formerly held
title for reasons other than Union activities. For probationary employees with prior
City service, the Union will represent such employees when a department issues a

16

suspension or discharge for cause instead of taking action to revert the employee to
his/her prior status. 

H. SENIORITY LISTS: The City will furnish to the Union quarterly, a seniority list
and a separation list showing each employee's name, address, department,
classification, and total City seniority date. Upon request, the City will annually
furnish the Union its relevant city wide seniority list by classification. These
computer generated lists will be based on official Human Resources Department
documents which have been approved and processed as of the date submitted. Any
questions concerning this information or alleged errors should be submitted to the
Administrative Services Division of the Human Resources Department. When the
City has the capability, such lists will be provided to the Union on compact disks
(CD5).

13. Seniority of Union Representatives

A. Except as follows and as provided in Article 33 - Overtime, there will be no
exceptions or special seniority provisions for Union officers. Notwithstanding their
position on the seniority list, all Union Representatives who provide "Weingarten?
representation to employees in the bargaining unit, or who are responsible for the
adjustment of grievances, will in the event of a layoff or reduction in force, be
retained in employment so long as there are:

1. Full-time positions remaining in their current classi?cation in their
respective Department;

2. Full-time positions remaining in their current classification in any other
Departments within the bargaining unit; and

3. Full-time positions remaining in any classification other than their current
one in which the employee has had prior year service or occupational series
and be able to perform the duties and functions of the new job as determined
by the Employer.

B. The provisions of this Article will apply only so long as Union Representatives
engage in the representation and grievance adjustment functions set forth above.

C. Should a Union Representative lose his/her Weingarten representation or grievance
adjustment functions, they will be subject to displacement by employees with
greater seniority who have been laid off or demoted as a result of reductions in force
made prior to the former representative's loss of representation or grievance
adjustment functions.

14. Reductions in Force, Lay Off, Demotion, and Recall

A. NOTICE TO THE UNION: Where practical, the City will provide notice to the
Union at least fourteen (14) days prior to the issuance of any layoffs.

l7

ORDER OF REMOVAL: Reduction in force will be by job classification in a
City department. Within the department, the following categories of employees?
in the class will be removed first in the following order.

1. Provisionally?hired employees.

2. Newly-hired employees who have not completed the probationary period.
3. Employees hired on a seasonal, temporary or other limited term basis.

4. Seniority employees who have recently been promoted into the class and

have not completed the required trial period, and employees promoted to
the class on a limited-term basis. Such employees will revert to the
classification in the department from which they were promoted.

5. Seniority employees who are in the class on a permanent basis and have
completed the required trial period. Such employees will be removed from
the class in accordance with their total City seniority and have those
displacement rights described below.

UNIT-WIDE DISPLACEMENT: Permanent seniority employees who are being
removed from a given class will have the following optional displacement rights in
their bargaining unit:

1. To displace the least seniority employee in a lower class in the same
occupational series; provided the employee can perform the duties of the
new position as determined by the applicable department.

2. To displace the least seniority employee in some other classification which
the senior employee previously held; provided the employee can perform
the duties of the new position as determined by the applicable department.

In addition, employees who are unable to displace lesser seniority employees in
their bargaining unit may be transferred or demoted to other available vacant
positions in the bargaining unit for which they are adjudged to be qualified.

Those employees who are unable to displace lesser seniority employees or are not
status-changed to other available vacancies in the bargaining unit will be laid off
by issuance of a layoff notice from their department.

Employees who have an opportunity to displace a lesser seniority employee in the
next lower class in their occupational series, will have those recall, reemployment
and restoration rights set forth in Section D.

EMPLOYEE RECALL, REEMPLOYMENT AND RESTORATION
RIGHTS: Employees will be recalled by seniority for available positions either:
in their current classification, or in the classification in the same occupational

l8

series; provided they have prior service in such classification within the last three
(3) years and can perform the duties in the position they are recalled into. The City's
right to fill vacancies through transfer, promotion, or new hire will be done in
accordance with the Management Rights or the Transfer and Promotion provisions
of this Agreement.

MULTIPLE TITLES: In determining an employee's rights under this Article, an
employee can have permanent seniority in only one 1) class at a time. An employee
who carries a multiple title will be treated as having permanent seniority in the
lowest part of his/her multiple title.

Exceptions to this general rule would be where the employee previously held a
higher part of the multiple title on a single title basis, or where the parties agree that
the employee's permanent seniority should be in a higher part of the multiple title
based on the employee's nature and history of employment. Such agreement must
be in effect no later than ninety (90) days prior to the announcement of a reduction
in force.

NOTICE REQUIREMENTS: Following notice, a representative of the
department will meet with the Union to discuss the circumstances of the
department?s reduction in force.

Employees to be laid off will receive notice of layoff no less than two (2)
calendar weeks prior to the effective date of the separation. A Union
representative will be permitted to attend the notification meeting. A copy
of such notice will be sent to the Union.

2. Employees diSplaced as a result of a reduction in force, will receive notice
of diSplacement and/or layoff no less than two (2) calendar weeks prior to
the demotion or separation. A Union representative will be permitted to
attend the notification meeting. A copy of such notice will be sent to the
Union.

3. Notice of recall or offer of reemployment to laid off employees will be sent
by certified mail to the person's last address of record. It will be the
responsibility of the laid off employee to notify the Human Resources
Department immediately of any change of address. Failure of the laid off
employee to report to Human Resources within five (5) calendar days of the
date of the notice will be considered a voluntary quit and result in loss of
seniority unless good cause for the employee's failure to report is shown.

4. Exceptions to the above notice requirements will be allowed in individual
cases where the failure to give timely notice resulted from error or
unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of management.

To exercise bumping rights, an employee must have prior service in such
classification within the last three (3) years and can perform the duties of the new
position. Employees will be permitted to work outside their classification.

19

15. Transfers and Promotions

The City will have the right to transfer andfor promote employees within any department
or to any newdepartment in its reasonable discretion that will take into account an employee?s
seniority, training, education, expertise, performance, attendance, and discipline history, as well
as any possible disruption that may result from an inter?depart mental transfer. Such transfer andfor
promotion will be on a six (6) month probationary period, during which time the City may
reasonably determine that the transferred employee is unable to perform the duties and functions
of the new position and may reasonably exercise its right to transfer that person back to their old
position or to another position. Transfers and promotions will be effected without loss of seniority.

A.

16. Contractual Work

It is the intent of this Article to preserve the jobs of City employees, while
maintaining the rights of the City of Detroit to handle its affairs in an efficient, cost
effective contract approval process for the good and welfare of its citizens.

The City agrees to abide by Detroit City Ordinance, City Code Section 18-5-100 et
seq. (for purposes of this Article 16, the ?Code?). This Article 16 (Contractual
Work) will not apply to City contracts that fall under Code Section 18?5-102.
Application of the terms of the Code pursuant to this Agreement will be subject to
the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement, however in no event
will an employee or the Union be permitted to pursue the same claim under both
the Code and the grievance and arbitration procedure. The arbitrator will not have
the authority to amend, terminate or modify this Agreement or to interpret or apply
the Code in a manner that is inconsistent with its terms or as it may have been
judicially interpreted.

In the event the City, in its discretion, determines that it will recommend a contract
for services as defined in the City Code to the Detroit City Council (other than those
contracts covered by Code Section the applicable union(s) will be
noti?ed reasonably in advance prior to a final decision of the City Council on the
contract being awarded, or as soon as possible in emergency situations (as defined
by Code Section 18?5-1011. Such notice to the unionls} will be in writing and will
include the information described in City Code Section to the extent
not already provided to that union.

The Union may prepare alternate plans to the City recommendation upon review of
the above information, working with management employees if it chooses to do so.
The final decision to act is vested solely and exclusively in the City which will not
act in an arbitrary and capricious manner.

Nothing in this Article should be construed to waive, abridge or impair the rights
reserved to an emergency manager appointed pursuant to Public Act 436, MCL 
241.1541 et seq. to reject, modify or terminate any provision of this Article subject
to Section 12(k) of PA 436 This reservation of rights shall expire

20

on September 30, 2014 at which time this Article shall be binding in accordance
with Article 48 of this Agreement.

Insourcing

l. The Union will be granted the opportunity to offer to have work which is
currently performed by private individuals or companies, to be performed
by City employees. This is referred to as ?Insourcing.?

2. Any union may submit an Insourcing proposal to the City?s Purchasing
Director and the Department Head of the relevant Department. Such
proposal will contain sufficient detail demonstrating the economic and/or
qualitative advantages of Insourcing contracted services. The City will
review such proposal on a fair and reasonable basis and respond to the
Union within sixty (60) days of receipt of the union?s Insourcing proposal.

17. Preferential Hiring

Any non?governmental entity awarded work by the City pursuant to Article 16 of

this Agreement Contractual Work (for purposes of this Article 17 a ?Contractor?) will
give City employees who have been or will be separated from employment as a result of
the award of the contract preferential hiring rights for open positions for which they are
qualified based on their level of skill and ability as of the date the contract is awarded.

A.

?Preferential hiring rights? for purposes of this Article 17 means that City
employees separated from employment as a result of the contract award will be
offered employment by the Contractor into any open positions covered by the
contract for which City employees are qualified based on their level of skill and
ability prior to offering employment to any non-City employees. Neither the City
nor any Contractor will be obligated to provide any training, education, or any other
form of assistance, without limitation, to any employees seeking employment with
a Contractor pursuant to this Article 17.

Qualification requirements will be determined in the Contractor?s sole discretion.
Nothing in this Article 17 is intended to restrict a Contractor?s right to set its own
terms and conditions of employment and/or its own hiring qualifications and
employment standards. However, any contract pursuant to Article 16 will include
a provision that prohibits discrimination against former City employees based upon
their union affiliation or for any other reason prohibited by law.

The City will require that all contracts awarded pursuant to Article 16 will, as a
condition of such contracts with the City, comply with the terms of this Article 17.
Contractors will establish appeal procedures, culminating in neutral arbitration, for
the processing of complaints from former City employees who claim to have been
denied the preferential hiring rights established by this Agreement. An arbitrator
will have the authority to order back pay, but not any other form of remedy or relief
in the event of a violation by the Contractor of such preferential hiring rights. The

21

arbitrator will be selected by the Contractor from a list of five arbitrators provided
by the Unio'n and the City. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator be borne by
the Contractor.

D. The City will not be responsible for the Contractor?s hiring criteria or employment
decisions but will take reasonable measures, including written requirements that
obligate a Contractor to comply with this Article 17 in any request for proposal anti
any subsequent contract by the City awarded pursuant to Article 16 to ensure
Contractor compliance with this Article.

E. The parties acknowledge that a Contractor may not have any open positions at the
time a contract is awarded if the Contractor?s then-current workforce is sufficient
to perform the work covered by the contract.

1 8. Employee Input

The City and Union agree that employee input is essential for continuous improvement.
Therefore. the City commits to provide a forum for employees to bring forth ideas to improve
operational efficiency, potential cost savings, and any other union or employee concerns related to
departmental operations.

The City or the Union may request a meeting to discuss efficiency, cost savings, or
operational concerns. The meeting will occur within fifteen (15) working days of the request. The
party requesting the meeting will provide an agenda no later than five (5) working days prior to
the meeting.

19. Leaves of Absence

A. FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993 (FMLA): The City will
promulgate reasonable FMLA policies in accordance with the law. A full
explanation of the employee's FMLA rights will be included in the New Employee
Orientation. Employees may seek information about their FMLA rights from
Human Resources.

B. CITY LEAVES OF ABSENCES: The City may grant leaves of absence for
medical, educational, military, personal or other reasons in its sole discretion,
consistent with the terms of this Agreement and applicable law. The City may also
authorize the extension of a leave of absence in writing signed by an authorized
City representative, at its sole discretion, consistent with the terms of this
Agreement and applicable law. City leaves of absence and/or extensions of such
leaves must be approved by Human Resources. Employees may seek information
about leaves of absences from Human Resources.

C. UNION LEAVES OF ABSENCE: Members of the Union elected or selected by
the Union to do work which takes them from their employment long-term, for an
incessant assignment of more than six months, will, at the written request of the

22

Union, receive leaves of absence for the period of employment with the Union, and
upon return will be resemploycd. During the leave of absence the Union member
will not accrue additional seniority. Upon re-employment, the Union member will
be reinstated with the seniority he or she had accrued prior to the leave of absence.

20. Union Bulletin Board

The City will furnish, for the use of the Union, space for a bulletin board at locations to be
agreed on by the Union and the City where bargaining unit members are assigned, as practicable.
The bulletin boards will not contain anything of a political or libelous nature.

21. Strikes and Lockouts

A. Interference with Work: Employees will not engage in any strike, work stoppage,
slowdown. refusai to cross picket lines, sympathy strike or otherwise neglect of, or
interference of any kind with, the operations of the City.

B. The City will not lockout any employee in furtherance of a labor dispute. However,
if any employee is unable to work because equipment or facilities are not available
due to a strike, work stoppage, slowdown or other interference by other employees,
such inability to work will not be deemed a lockout under the provisions of this
section.

C. If an employee is not engaging in conduct outlined in section A of this Article 21
but is unable to work because equipment or facilities are not available due to a strike,
work stoppage, slowdown or other interference by other employees. such inability
to work will not be deemed to violate section A of this Article.

22. Severability

If any Article, Section or provision of this Agreement or any Supplement thereto, should
be held invalid by operation of Law or by any Tribunal of competent jurisdiction. or if compliance
with or enforcement of any Article or Section should be restrained by such Tribunal, the remainder
of this Agreement and supplements will not be affected thereby, and Employer may negotiate a
satisfactory replacement for such Article or Section.

23. Employee Assistance Program

A. The City and the Union recognize and acknowledge that behavioral-medical
problems have an adverse effect on the employee's job performance and merits
special attention. Examples of these problems include but are not limited to
substance abuse, including alcohol and drugs, physical illness, mental or emotional
illness, marital or family maladjustments and other personal problems. These
behavior-medical problems impair the employee's ability to function, and
contribute to increased absenteeism and tardiness, and violations of other rules,
regulations, and procedures. The combination of factors is recognized as having

23

potentially damaging effects on the employee, the work site and the well?being of
co?workers. The City and the Union believe most behavioral-medical problems are
treatable. The Employee Assistance Program is designed to provide assistance to
employees who are experiencing behavior-medical problems that may result in
deteriorating job performance. 

The City may continue to provide an Employee Assistance Program through a third
party vendor.

Nothing in this statement is to be interpreted as constituting any waiver of
management's responsibility to maintain discipline or the right to invoke
progressive disciplinary measures when applicable in the case of misconduct which
may result from or be associated with the abuse of any substance or other personal
problem; the Union may exercise its right to process grievances concerning such
matters in accordance with this Agreement.

During or following treatment, the employee should not expect any special
privileges or exemptions from standard personnel practices; however, employees
with substance abuse problems or personal problems will be allowed to liquidate
sick leave for the purpose of treatment or rehabilitation upon presentation of
satisfactory medical evidence.

When a leave of absence is necessary so that an employee may undergo behavioral-
medical treatment for alcoholism, drug abuse, or other personal problems in or from
an appropriate facility in accordance with this program, and when the employee has
voluntarily submitted himself for such treatment, he/she may be granted a leave of
absence if the employee has completed one (1) year of continuous classified service
immediately prior to the leave.

The confidential nature of medical records of affected employees will be preserved
in the strictest manner as all other medical records. To the extent feasible, employee
assistance facilities will be located in areas separate from other City activities.

24. Career Development and Training

The City and the Union recognize the need to provide training and career
development opportunities for employees which will develop their skills,
knowledge, and abilities to effectively carry out duties and responsibilities of their
current classification, and to qualify for more responsible positions in the future.

The City subscribes to the principle of promotion from within, and, in keeping with
that principle, the City agrees to focus some of its resources toward those
employees in lower job classifications in order to provide opportunities to train and
enter new careers.

The City and the Union agree that a major goal of training and career development
is improvement of the status of female and minority employees in order to fulfill

24

the City's and the Union?s commitment to effective affirmative action programs,
and to make the work force at all levels reasonably representative of fhe sex and
ethnic composition of the City.

D. The City and the Union recognize that technological or other changes may occur
during the term of this Agreement. Whenever such changes occur, bargaining unit
members may be offered opportunity for training, retraining or reassignment
whenever possible. (Example: Detroit Resource Management System 

E. To insure that employees are adequately trained, The Human Resources
Department may conduct periodic training need assessments and employee
performance reviews.

25. EEO and Affirmative Action Statement

A. The City will adhere to a policy of equal opportunity for all employees and continue
to prohibit discrimination because of race, color, creed, national origin, age,
political orientation, sex, sexual orientation, disability, or any other protected
category, continue to comply with all federal state and local civil rights laws,
ordinances and regulations and promote a full realization of equal employment
opportunity through a positive and continuing effort.

B. The City may, upon request, provide the Union with copies of statistical minority
employment information reports and such reports concerning policies and
programs for equal opportunity in employment regarding City employees.

26. Defense and Indemnification of Employees

Current City policy regarding the defense of and indemnification of employees against
damage suits, claims, etc. is set forth in the Detroit City Code Chapter 13, Article 11, and is
incorporated herein.

27. Confidential Employees

The parties agree that certain City employees are designated as confidential employees and
are, therefore, to be exempt from membership in the bargaining units covered by this Agreement.
These employees are those holding the positions as outlined in Appendix A. The City will not
designate other employees as confidential without the agreement of the applicable bargaining unit
President; but may, if the bargaining unit fails to so agree, petition the Michigan Employment
Relations Commission to approve such designation.

28. Copies of the Agreement

The City will provide the Union with an electronic copy of this Agreement and will post
this Agreement on the City?s website.

25

29. Unemployment Benefits

Employees covered by this Agreement will receive unemployment benefits in accordance
with the unemployment insurance plan administered by the Michigan Employment Security
Commission under the Michigan Employment Security Act.

30. Funeral Leave

A. Ifa death occurs among members of the employee's immediate family the employee,
provided hez?she attends the funeral and submits documentation ol'such upon return
to work. will be granted two days leave not to he charged to sick leave. An
employee may take an additional three (3) days of funeral leave to be charged
against current sick leave and then reserve sick leave upon his/her request.

B. DEFINITION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY: The immediate family is defined as
wife, husband. son, daughter, brother. sister, father. mother, step?father, step-
mother, step-son. step?daughter. grandchild, grandmother, grandfather, and a
member of the employee?s household that has had the same permanent address as
the employee for at least one 1) year prior to the household member?s death.
?Household member? will not include temporary guests or visitors to the
employee?s home.

C. If a death occurs among the relatives of the employee, the employee will be granted
one (1) day leave, not to be charged to sick leave provided he/she attends the funeral
and submits documentation of such upon return to work. If the funeral which the
employee attends is more than 300 miles from the City of Detroit, the employee
may extend the leave by two (2) days to be charged against current sick leave and
then reserve sick leave upon his/her request.

D. DEFINITION OF RELATIVES: Relatives are defined as brother?in?law, sister-
in-law, uncle, aunt, mother?in?law, and father-in?law.

If the Union President is not available to attend the funeral of a City employee who
is a member of his/her local, a representative of the Union, with proper notification
to the department head, will be allowed one (1) funeral day, not to be charged to
sick leave, to attend the funeral, provided he/she submits documentation of such
upon return to work.

31. Sick Leave

A. All employees who have completed three (3) months of continuous service will be
granted one 1) day of sick leave for every service month in which they have
worked 80% of their scheduled hours, not to exceed twelve (12) sick leave days in
any one fiscal year. With respect to sick leave accrual, Employees have the
following, as applicable based on an individual Employee's accrued time: 1) A
Reserve Bank that consists of all reserve sick leave hours accrued on or before July

26

18, 2012, less any hours used from the Reserve Bank after July 18, 2012. The award
of reserve sick days was eliminated as of July 18, 2012, 2) A Prior Bank that
consists of any sick leave hours accrued on or before April 30, 2014. Additional
accruals into the Prior Bank will be frozen as of April 30, 2014, and 3) A Current
Bank that will consist of any sick leave hours accrued on or after May 1, 2014.
Current Banks will be capped at 480 hours, with no additional accrual unless the
balance falls below 480 hours, and any accrual thereafter will not exceed the 480
hour cap. For Employees on the personnel payroll system (PPS), Current sick leave
hours up to 480 hours will be added to their Prior Bank instead of creating a third
Current Bank. Sick leave usage will first be drawn from the Current Bank, followed
by the Prior Bank and finally the Reserve Bank.

All employees must be on the payroll for the entire month to be credited with sick
leave.

Sick leave may not be granted in anticipation of future service.

Sick leave balances will be expressed in terms of hours and will be posted on the
employee's check stub.

32. Work Week, Work Day, Shift Premium

STANDARD SERVICE WEEK:

1. The standard payroll work week will begin at 12:01 am. Monday, and end
at 12:00 pm. Sunday. It will consist of five (5) regularly scheduled eight
(8) hour work periods on as many work days. The two (2) remaining days
in the payroll work week will be known as ?off days.? In accordance with
the Management Rights Clause, the City reserves the right to determine, and
change start and quit times, as well as modify employee schedulestith at
least fourteen (14) days notice, or as much advance notice as possible where
fourteen (14) days is not practicable.

2. The first scheduled ?off day? within the payroll work week will be
designated as the ?sixth day? and the second scheduled ?off day? within the
payroll work week will be designated as the ?seventh day.?

3. Off days in the work week will be scheduled consecutively unless such
scheduling will adversely affect or add cost to operations of the department.

4. The City and the Union will review departmental work schedules which
currently do not provide for consecutive off days. If the parties can agree
that scheduling changes which allow for consecutive off days are feasible,
such changes will be implemented, provided that such changes do not result
in increased costs or loss of productivity.

27

q.

The City and the Union will also review those departmental operations
which currently require rotating shifts. If the parties can agree thaf a more
productive schedule can be established without an increase in cost, the City
will take the steps necessary to implement such schedules.

Employees will be allowed to submit shift preferences within locations for
any new work schedules established pursuant to reviews made in
accordance with Section A-3 and A-4.

SERVICE DAY AND WORK DAY:

1.

Full time bargaining unit employees shall have a work week scheduled for
forty (40) hours.

Two (2) coffee breaks of not less than fifteen (15) minutes per shift will be
permitted.

When an employee is called to work, he/she will be guaranteed no less than
four (4) hours of pay for ?show up? time at the appropriate rate.

A ?ex-time work schedule may be established in certain departments where
the appropriate working conditions exist.

Employees assigned to seven day operations will be required to call in two
(2) hours prior to the start of their shift when requesting a sick day.

AFTERNOON AND NIGHT SHIFTS:

1.

Shift Premium Rates: Employees who work regularly scheduled
afternoon and night shifts will receive, in addition to their regular pay, a
premium of twenty?five cents per hour for the afternoon shift and a
premium of fifty cents per hour for the night, if the employee works
their entire regularly scheduled shift.

Shift Premium Times: The afternoon shift will be any full?time shift
commencing between the hours of 11:00 am. and 6:59 pm.

The night shift will be any full-time shift commencing at the hour of 7:00
pm. or between the hours of 7:00 pm. and 3:59 am. in accordance with
Chapter 13, Article 2, Section 12, of the Municipal Code of the City of
Detroit.

Unless provided for otherwise within this Agreement, all of the provisions of this
Article will be in accordance with Chapter 13. Article 2, Section 12, of the
Municipal Code of the City of Detroit.

28

Currently all employees will receive their pay bi-weekly. When it is
administratively feasible, the pay check for all employees shall be transmitted via
direct deposit or payroll debit card.

Employees shall be permitted to request a ?ex?time schedule. Employees shall
generally be permitted to arrive at their designated work sites and/or areas at any
time up to a half an hour after the department?s designated start time. Quitting time
for these employees would be that time following completion of the required
number of hours for that work day.

If an employee?s presence is required on a specific day at a Speci?c time, the
supervisor may deny said employee or employees the right to fully utilize the
?extime system on that day only. Examples include but are not limited to Court
Appearances or emergency circumstances such as snow emergency and/or large
snow accumulations.

In the event problems arise in any ?ex time program, the Department or operating
division involved shall request a meeting thereon, and the Association President
and the Director of Labor Relations and or his/her designated representative will
meet in special conference within fifteen (15) days of notification of the request.
Upon approval of the Director of Labor Relations the City reserves the right to
suspend or modify the ?ex time system where appropriate based on department
needs.

33. Overtime

The City has the right to schedule overtime work and to require employees to work
mandatory overtime.

In any represented unit where overtime is not equalized, overtime work will be
offered starting with the senior employee. When there are not enough volunteers,
overtime assignments will be made according to inverse seniority. Seniority?based
overtime offers will not be required where an unexpected emergency arises or it is
impractical to seek volunteers. Existing super seniority practices for Union
stewards who engage in activities de?ned in Article 7 of this Agreement for
purposes of overtime will be maintained.

As of the effective date of this Agreement, every City department that employs
Union members equalizes overtime. These departments will determine the
equalization scheme and the sole remedy for a violation of the equalization scheme
will be working the next available overtime opportunity and not payment of any
back pay. In no circumstance will employees be paid for time not worked.
Departments may discontinue equalization of overtime with prior notice to the
Union and approval of Labor Relations Director.

In certain cases, Departments may seek the written approval of the Labor Relations
Director to schedule overtime based on factors other than seniority, including but

29

not limited to: experience, work performance, and/or demonstrated abilities.
Written approval, with a copy to the Union, must state the reason relied upon in
approving such requests.

CASUAL OVERTIME:

1. Casual Overtime is the continuation of employment beyond the normal
service day to complete a particular task. Where a task necessitates
overtime service to complete it, the employee assigned to that task may be
continued in the assignment until its completion.

2. The City may require employees to work Casual Overtime without
consideration of seniority and/or overtime equalization.

TIME AND ONE-HALF OVERTIME:

1. Employees Time and one?half (one?hundred and fifty percent 
will be paid to hourly-rated employees for all hours worked over forty (40)
in one (1) service week inclusive of a seventh day or a holiday

2. Notwithstanding the above paragraph, vacations and holidays shall be
counted as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.

3. When a schedule indicates a lunch period but conditions make it impractical
to enjoy same, the employee or employees involved will be paid the
prevailing overtime rate in lieu of his/her lunch period. The provisions of
this section will not apply to employees whose work day is designated on
a measured task basis. In no instance will payments be made for lunch
periods not worked.

4. Premium payments will not be duplicated for the same hours worked.

5. Except for any contrary provisions above, all of the above will be in
accordance with Chapter 13, Article 2 of the Municipal Code of the City of
Detroit and the Michigan Minimum Wage Law.

34. Holidays and Excused Time Off

Employees will be entitled to the following seven (7) holidays: New Year?s Day,
Martin Luther King?s Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day, during which premium time will be paid
for time worked as set forth below. Employees will be granted eight (8) hours of
?Excused Time? on Good Friday or eight (8) hours on the last scheduled paid day
prior to Good Friday, and eight (8) hours of ?Excused Time? on the last scheduled
paid day before Christmas Day and before New Year?s Day and for Veteran?s Day,

30

and the day after Thanksgiving. Employees will be paid holiday pay for excused
time days, but if employees are required to work on such days, only straight ?time
pay will be paid for hours worked.

Employees will receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for the above mentioned
holidays. Where a holiday is concurrent with the employee?s sixth or seventh work
day, the Department Head will have the option of paying for the holiday or granting
equivalent time off with pay with at least seven (7) days advanced notice to the
employee and the Union where practicable. When the City elects to give the
employee time off, said time will be granted at the request of the employee with the
approval of the Department Head.

An employee will be eligible for holiday pay or excused time pay provided he/she
has received at least eight (8) hours of pay (exclusive of overtime and sick leave)
the workday before and the day after the holiday or excused time day. Provided,
however, the employee continues on the payroll through the holiday or excused
time day and is otherwise qualified for the holiday or excused time day.

For the purpose of this section, an employee will be considered off the payroll if
he/she is fired, quits, or is on a formal leave of absence granted by the Human
Resources Department (generally over 30 days), is on workers? compensation, or
is laid off. An employee?s payroll status not covered by the above will be subject
to a Special Conference. Criteria to be used to determine payroll status will be if
the absence of the employee will be for more than thirty (30) days.

If an employee is absent without just cause on a holiday or excused time day on
which he/she is scheduled to work, he/she will receive no pay for the holiday.

Time and one half (1.5) will be paid for all hours worked on a holiday in addition
to the straight time holiday pay due for a holiday as such. Straight time pay will be
paid for all hours worked on an Excused Time day, in addition to the Excused Time
pay above.

Premium payments will not be duplicated for the same hours worked.

Employees who are scheduled to work on any holiday, but who fail to report to
work, will not be eligible for holiday pay.

For the purpose of this Article, an employee will be considered off the payroll if
he/she engages in a work stoppage which extends through a holiday or excused
time day. All benefits under this Article will be forfeited for the holiday or excused
time in question.

If a holiday or excused time day falls on Saturday it will be observed on the
preceding Friday, and if a holiday or excused time day falls on Sunday it will be
observed on the following Monday for all employees except those assigned to six
and seven day operations. Should two (2) consecutive holidays or excused time
days occur on a Friday and Saturday, or on a Sunday and Monday, Friday and

31

Monday, respectively, will be designated as the official holidays.
If an employee engaged in six or seven day operations works either the actual
calendar holiday or the substitute holiday, he/she will receive the holiday
premium, but he/she will not be allowed to pyramid holiday premium for working
both days.

1. An employee assigned to a six or seven day operation may be scheduled
off for the holiday on either the calendar holiday or the substitute holiday.

2. When an employee works both the calendar holiday and the substitute
holiday, the day selected as a holiday for pay purposes will be the day
which allows the employee the maximum pay credit for working both
days.

3. If an employee works either the calendar holiday or the substitute holiday,
but not both. he/she will be paid holiday premium for the day worked.

4. If an employee is off sick on the calendar holiday, or the substitute
holiday, or both, he/she will receive sick pay. If he/she works either of the
two days he/she will receive holiday premium.

5. If an employee is AWOL on the actual calendar holiday, but works the
substitute holiday, he/she will not be entitled to holiday pay or holiday
premium.

The City will have the option to close all or part of its facilities for the Christmas
and New Year?s holiday season consistent with operating needs and the public
service. Employees will have the option of using vacation, compensatory time or
no-pay for any days off during this period. If an employee has none of the above
listed accrued time, departmental leave may be used if available. If an employee
has no paid time accrued, and wishes to work, the Department will make every
attempt to place an employee in his/her department on a job assignment consistent
with their job classification and ability to perform the work.

The City will determine optional holiday season closing dates and will notify the
Union by November of each year of whether it intends to implement a holiday
closedown.

Any scheduled time off or uses of departmental leave days during these periods will

not be counted against the employees? attendance records nor adversely affect their
bene?ts.

35. Unused Sick Leave on Retirement

Employees will be entitled to payment for unused sick leave on retirement as
follows:

32

Upon retirement, or death with twenty (20) years of service, Employees will be

entitled to payment of sixty percent their unused sick leave hours in their
Reserve Bank (as defined in Article 31 of this Agreement) plus the sick leave hours
accrued prior to July 18, 2012 in their Prior Bank (as de?ned in Article 31 of this
Agreement), reduced by any sick leave that has been taken after July 18, 2012 from
those Banks. All sick leave hours accrued after July 18, 2012 and remaining unused
upon retirement or death will not be paid.

This payment will be made pursuant to City policy, which may be amended
consistent with the terms of this Agreement with respect to the administration of
such benefit but not with respect to the value of the benefit to the employee/retiree.

B. The payments will be made as part of the Employee?s Pension Program, or the
Employee?s Benefit Plan, or through the Finance Department.

36. Vacations

Employees inducted during the course of the fiscal year will not be eligible for vacation
leave without deduction of pay until they will have earned at least one thousand (1000) hours of
paid time, exclusive of overtime or premium time, and until they have attained status as City
employees for a least six (6) months. When employees qualify, as above stated, they will be
entitled to five (5) days of vacation leave. Once employees have earned at least sixteen hundred
(1600) hours of paid time, exclusive of overtime, and have attained status as employees for at least
twelve (12) months, they are entitled to five (5) additional vacation days. In order that an
employee?s time may be computed on a fiscal year basis, on the July 1 following his first year
anniversary date of employment the employee will be entitled to a prorated vacation leave,
computed by multiplying the number of months remaining from the anniversary date, to the end
of the fiscal year by 8.3 percent often (10) days and rounding the product to the nearest whole
number. Thereafter, his vacation will be computed on a fiscal year basis. The City reserves the
right to make changes to the vacation selection process.

Employees hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement, will not be eligible for
vacation leave without deduction of pay until they will have earned at least one thousand (1000)
hours of paid time, exclusive of overtime or premium time, and until they have attained status as
City employees for a least six (6) months. When employees qualify, as above stated, they will be
entitled to ?ve (5) days of vacation leave. In order that an employee's time may be computed on a
?scal year basis, on the July 1 following his first year anniversary date of employment the
employee will be entitled to a prorated vacation leave, computed by multiplying the number of
months remaining from the anniversary date, to the end of the fiscal year by 8.3 percent of five (5)
days and rounding the product to the nearest whole number. Thereafter, his vacation will be
computed on a fiscal year basis.

VACATION SCHEDULE: As of the Effective Date of this Agreement the vacation schedule
for employees shall be as follows:

0-6 months No vacation
6 months 5 days

33

1 year Additional 5 days

2 through 5 years? 10 days 
6 years 11 days
7 years . 12 days
8 years 13 days
9 years 14 days
10 through 12 years 17 days
13 years 18 days
14 years 19 days
15 years or more 20 days

The maximum vacation days earned in a fiscal year will be as follows: Twenty (20} days
for employees with fifteen years of service hired before September 28, 2010; fifteen (15) days for
employees with ?fteen years of service hired on or after September 28, 2010. Maximum annual
accrual amounts at less than fifteen years of service will be in accordance with the vacation policy
promulgated by the Human Resources Department, as amended from time to time with respect to
administration but not value, at the sole discretion of the City. The vacation policy will govern all
aspects of vacations.

Vacation hours are capped at 240 hours and accrual over this amount must be used before
each September 30th of each year. Effective October 1, 2014, vacation hours will be capped at
160 hours and accrual over this amount must be used before September 30?h of each year. Requests
for vacation will not be unreasonably denied.

37. Temporary Assignments

A. The Employer reserves the right to assign employees to positions outside their
classification on a temporary basis.

B. OUT-OF-CLASS ASSIGNMENTS:

1. For purposes of this Article, an employee is deemed to be working ?out-of?
class? if he/she is reassigned by management from hisfher regularly
assigned duties to perform duties and responsibilities not normally
performed and characteristic of and requiring the qualifications of a higher
classification. Assignment of some duties normally performed by an absent
employee will not constitute an out-of?class assignment if such duties are
appropriate to the classification of the person assigned.

2. If an employee is so assigned the duties of a higher classification to replace
an absent employee for one or more consecutive work days, he/she will be
compensated on an out?of?class basis at the rate for the appropriate
classification for all such out ?of?class hours worked.

3. For out-of?class assignments, the most qualified employee will be offered the out-

of?class work provided he/she is readily available and able to do the work.
Qualifications will be determined by an employee?s performance record,

34

attendance/timeliness, training as well as work/discipline history. Seniority may
be considered but it will not be the determining factor for the out-of-class
assignment.

4. The parties recognize that out?of-class work assignments will not be used
to circumvent established procedures for filling vacant positions by transfer
or promotion as provided in this Agreement, nor will supervisors avoid out?
of?class payment by arbitrarily alternating out-of-class assignments.

TEMPORARY PLACEMENT OF EMPLOYEES INTO OTHER DUTIES
DEPARTMENTS:

l. Employees temporarily placed under these provisions will not lose his or
her promotional opportunity at the transferred?out location and will be
treated as if he or she had not been temporarily placed in other
duties/department.

2. Any vacation period the moved employee had approved at the transferred-
in location will continue to be honored at the transferred?out location so
long as the vacation does not adversely impact operations.

38. Jury Duty

Employees who serve on jury duty will be paid the difference between their pay for
jury duty and their regular pay for all days they are required to serve on jury duty.

In the event that an employee reports for jury duty but does not actually serve on a
jury, he/she will be paid the difference between the jury pay received and his/her
regular days pay and be excused for the day.

In order to receive payment for jury duty supplementation, an employee must be
scheduled to work, must give reasonably prompt prior notice to his/her supervisor
that he/she has been summoned for jury duty, and must furnish proof of service for
the days for which he/she claims such payment.

Jury duty will be considered as time worked. An employee on jury duty will be
continued on the payroll and be paid at his/her straight time hourly rate for his/her
normally scheduled hours of work, with a guaranteed eight (8) hours pay which
shall be counted towards overtime computation.

Upon return from jury duty, the City will deduct the amount received or due from
such jury duty service from the employee?s pay.

35

39. Hospitalization, Medical, Dental and Optical Care

A.

Insurance

During the term of this Agreement, regular full-time employees who have reached

their eligibility date will be entitled to participate in one of the City?s Group Health
Care Plans including a Prescription Drug Program in accordance with the City of
Detroit?s Health Care Plan Options for Active employees Booklet.

The City shall have the right to change or add insurance carriers occasionally, at its
sole discretion, to reduce costs, provided such changes do not cause a material
change in benefits offered.

Employees will be required to make contributions for their benefits based
upon the plan and coverage tier selected by the Employee. contributions
will be deducted from Employee payroll disbursements on a pre?tax basis (if
authorized by the employee), in accordance with applicable law.

Except as provided in this Article, the extent of coverage under the City?s Medical
Plans will be governed by the terms and conditions set forth in the City of Detroit?s
Health Care Plan Options for Active Employees Booklet, during the term of this
Agreement. Plan documents may be modified or amended by the City from time
to time in accordance with the terms of the applicable plan documents, provided
that such amendments do not violate the terms of this Article. Any questions or
disputes concerning the denial of a claim or coverage will be resolved in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the applicable insurance policies or plan
documents and will not be subject to the Grievance Arbitration Procedures set
forth in Article 8 of this Agreement.

The failure of any insurance carrier(s) or plan administrator(s) to provide any
benefit for which it has contracted or is obligated will not result in any liability to
the City. The failure of the insurance carrier or plan administrator to provide a
contracted benefit or obligation will not be considered a breach by the City.
However, nothing in this Agreement will be construed to relieve any insurance
carrier(s) or plan administrator(s) from any liability it may have to bargaining unit
Employees or beneficiaries of bargaining unit Employees.

Except as set forth in this Article, during the term of this Agreement, the Medical
Plans provided by the City will provide benefits to eligible bargaining unit
employees with an actuarial value (as determined by the Plan Actuary) that would
fall within the acceptable range for the ?Gold? level as defined by the ACA. In the
event that the actuarial value of the medical benefits provided by the City under
this Article falls below the ?Gold? level as determined by the Plan Actuary during
the term of the Agreement. The selection of a new ?Gold? level medical plan will
be at the sole discretion of the City; however, the City will meet with the Union to
explain modifications to the Medical Plan.

36

F. Notwithstanding any provision in this Article that could be construed to the
contrary, this Article will not be construed to require the City to fall out of 
compliance with the requirements of Public Act 152 of 2011 MCL 15.561 et. seq.
152?). The City?s Plan Actuary will be responsible for periodically
monitoring compliance with the requirements of PA 152. In the event that the Plan
Actuary determines that the City is reasonably likely to fall out of compliance with
PA 152, the City will provide written notice to the Union, and offer to meet with
the Union for a period not longer than thirty (30) days in order to explain potential
modifications to the terms of the Medical Plans or to the allocation of contributions
to the cost of medical coverage by the City and the Employees in order to comply
with the requirements of PA 152.

40. Workers? Compensation

All Employees will be covered by the applicable Workers? Compensation laws.

41. Death Benefits and Life Insurance
A. DEATH BENEFITS:
Death benefits for all regular City employees are authorized by the City Charter,
Title IX, Chapter The City Code, Chapter 13, Article 8, Section 8, currently
provides a death bene?t of $10,000.

1. Membership will be mandatory for regular employees.

2. For the term of this Agreement, contributions will remain at the rate in effect
as of the Effective Date of this Agreement.

B. PAYMENT FOR EMPLOYEES KILLED OR PERMANENTLY
DISABLED IN LINE OF DUTY:

1. A lump sum duty death benefit of $10,000 will be paid to the beneficiaries
or estate of employees who are killed or who die as a direct result of injuries

sustained in the actual performance of their duties.

2. Employees who receive a permanent disability payment under this Article
will be ineligible for the $10,000 Duty Death Benefit described above.

42. Wages
A. WAGE INCREASES:
Upon ratification of this Agreement, Bargaining Unit Employees will transition to
Step Code R. Employees can be hired within the range commensurate with

documented experience and will be paid equitably to current employees with
similar experience.

37

Bargaining unit employees hired in a classification represented in this Collective
Bargaining Unit with no experience shall be hired at the minimum and receive step
progressions annually on July 1.

Bargaining Unit employees who are at the maximum rate shall receive a 2%
increase annually on July 1 during the term of this agreement.

During negotiations, there were discussions regarding the increasing duties of
Environmental Control Inspectors and the ability to recruit and retain persons for
this title. In recognition of this situation, the classification of Environmental
Control Inspector (26?42-21) shall receive a salary range adjustment of $37,867.00
48,012.00. Effective upon ratification of this agreement and approval by City
Council, all current bargaining unit members shall receive a salary/market
adjustment of eight percent It is understood that some bargaining unit
members will receive a higher percentage adjustment to be placed at the new
minimum salary range.

MISCELLANEOUS.

1. All salaried employees will have their hourly rate computed by dividing
their annual salary by 2080 hours.

2. Salary and Rate Adjustments:

The pay rates of hourly-rated employees will be rounded up to the
nearest whole cent.

Each employee covered by this Agreement, whose wages are
classified as a yearly salary with minimum and maximum rates more
than $20,000 annually, and which rates, as a result of any required
change to be made to their wages causes the resulting amounts to fall
between even hundred-dollar levels, will have these rates adjusted
to the next higher hundred dollar level.

CORRECTION OF PAYROLL ERRORS:

Where by payroll error an employee is underpaid or overpaid the City is expressly
authorized to correct underpayment or overpayment by payroll adjustment pursuant
to applicable law. The City will provide written notice of any payroll error to the
affected employee, prior to making any adjustments.

The City reserves the right to seek immediate recovery through appropriate legal
proceedings.

38

43. Clothing and Uniform Allowances

For employees who are required to wear and maintain Specific clothing and/or
shoes, the clothing allowance will be $170 yearly.

For employees who are required to furnish a specific uniform at their own expense,
the allowance will be $350 yearly.

Clothing and uniform allowances will be paid by the last pay period in September.

Upon completion of the probationary period, which includes any extension(s) 0f
the probationary period, a new employee shall receive a full complement of the
work uniform.

A new employee shall not receive the clothing and /or uniform allowance until the
year following the completion of their probationary period.

This Article will be administered according to the Resolution of the City Council
of May 9, 1974 (7.C.C. p. 1107).

44. Private Car Mileage Reimbursement
RATES OF PAYMENT:

When an employee covered by this Agreement is assigned to use his/her automobile
to perform his or her job, he or she will be paid mileage established pursuant to at
the current IRS per mile rate governed by IRS regulations, subject to change when
that rate changes higher or lower.

DEFINITION OF REIMBURSABLE MILEAGE:

1. Trips from home to headquarters and back home will not constitute
reimbursable mileage.

2. Trips in either direction between home and any officially designated point
(when there is no specific headquarters) will not constitute reimbursable
mileage.

3. Trips from headquarters (or from the designated starting point if the

employee has no headquarters) to a job, from job to job, and if directed,
back to headquarters or starting point, will constitute reimbursable mileage.

In the event of an automobile breakdown during regular working hours, the time,
which an employee is allowed for servicing and repairing his automobile is to be
determined by departmental policies.

39

D. When an employee covered by this Agreement is regularly assigned to a job which
requires the use of an automobile during his normal working hours, he/she will be
required to furnish said car.

E. In order to receive mileage reimbursement an employee must actually use an
automobile on City business.

F. Employees will be subject to the City?s Private Car Mileage Reimbursement Policy,
which may be amended from time to time. In case of con?ict, the Policy will take
precedence.

45. Long Term Disability Benefits (Income Protection Plan)

Employees will be eligible for Long Term Disability Benefits ("Income Protection")
pursuant to the terms of the Plan purchased by the City within the cost parameters and providing
the benefits agreed to by the parties.

46. Retirement Benefits

Employees will be eligible for retirement benefits pursuant to the terms and conditions
included in the plan of adjustment approved by the United States Bankruptcy Court.

47. Modification and Duration

It is agreed between the parties that this Agreement will be effective upon the approval of
the Detroit City Council, and will continue in full force and effect until 1 1:59 P.M., June 30, 2023.

If either party desires to modify this Agreement, it may give written notice to the other
party as early as 90 days prior to the expiration and the parties thereafter will bargain in good faith
towards a successor agreement to take effect after June 30, 2023. Any failure to bargain prior to
expiration of this Agreement will not be subject to the Grievance and Arbitration procedure set
forth in Article 8 and will not otherwise be subject to penalty.

In the event the parties fail to arrive at an agreement on wages, fringe benefits, other
monetary matters, and non-economic items by June 30, 2023, this Agreement will remain in effect
on a day?to-day basis. Either party may terminate the Agreement by giving the other party ten
(10) calendar days written notice on or after June 30, 2023.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have affixed their signatures below:

Dated this day of 2019

40

The Service Employees International Union
Local (Non-Supervisory Unit)

47.
51/ /1 

Daryl Bucha?nan, President
SEIU Local 



xii-f" 

Dominic Bai'bato
SEIU Local 

CITY OF DETROIT 

amp

Michael Du gga?dayor

a?gx?

Hakim W. Berry, Director
Labor Relations

APPROVED AND CONFIRMED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL

 

Date

 

Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk

41

RE:

MEMORANDUM OF UNDSTANDING
BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF DETROIT
AND

SEIU 517 NON-SUPERVIOSRY UNIT

INSTRUCTOR-PUBLIC WORKS EQUIPMENT
The City of Detroit will provide office space to the instructor(s); however, the office may
be shared space. Office equipment will consist of deskts}. chair(s), file cabinet, desk or

laptop computer.

The instructor shall have access to and use of a two way radio for communication with
supervision and/or dispatch regarding training.

Vehicles will be made available when there is a documented need to observe during
performance of the trt-tinees. Full time vehicles will not be assigned to the instructor(s).

It will be the responsibility of the instructor to schedule, in advance, classroom facilities at

"Russell Ferry or any other location for training purposes.



?eld *t/aeef? 

SEIU 517M Ns Unit City of ban-on Labor Relations

Date:

42

MEMORANDUM OF UNDSTANDING
BETWEEN THE
CITY OF DETROIT
AND 
SEIU 517 NON-SUPERVIOSRY UNIT

RE: PESTICIDE LICENSES

1. For employees who are required by the City (as outlined in their job specifications) to
possess and maintain a pesticide license issued by the State of Michigan, the City will
reimburse the affected employee one hundred percent (100%) of the fee charged by the
State to renew such license.

2. City reimbursements will not include any other fees or costs that may be associated with
renewing the required pesticide license. All requests for reimbursement must be

supported with adequate original receipts indicating at minimum, the name of the license
holder, the date the renewal was obtained, and the amount of the fee that was paid.

For SEIU For the City:

WW 93%

43

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Retiree Medical Benefits

To: Union Officials

Retiree medical benefits for eligible bargaining unit employees and certain eligible non?
bargaining unit employees who retiree from employment on and before December 31, 2013 have
been establish through a voluntary employees' beneficiary association trust ("Non-Safety 
in accordance with Section 501(c)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The City
shall contribute 2% of base salary earnings, for all Eligible Employees as defined to the Non-
Safety VEBA for retiree health benefits during the life of this agreement.

A. Effective January 1, 2019 and each month thereafter during the term of this Agreement,
the City will contribute toward the cost of retiree health benefits for active Bargaining
Unit members an amount equal to two percent of the straight-time hourly earnings
(and paid time-off, but exclusive of any overtime compensation, premium/differential
payments, etc.) of active employees in the bargaining unit and non bargaining unit
eligible employees to the City of Detroit-Post 2014 on-Safety Employee Retiree Health
Care Trust. (the ?Retiree Medical Subsidy?) Such Retiree Medical Subsidy shall be
contributed by the fifteenth of each month calculated on the straight?time hourly earnings
by such active bargaining unit member and non bargaining unit eligible employees in the
second previous month to the month of payment. The City shall not be required to pay
any additional amounts in connection with retiree health for Bargaining Unit represented
active employees and non bargaining unit eligible employees during the term of the
Agreement, other than as specified herein. The parties agree that the City of Detroit-Post
2014 Non-Safety Employee Retiree Health Care Trust shall have sole responsibility for
maintaining and investing all funds contributed by the City pursuant to this article and
shall be solely responsible for determining the benefit design and form, amount and
timing of all benefit payments to Eligible Retirees pursuant to this Agreement, and the
City of Detroit-Post 2014 Non?Safety Employee Retiree Health Care Trust shall have
sole responsibility to ensure that all the City of Detroit-Post 2014 Non-Safety Employee
Retiree Health Care Trust acts or omissions with respect to the provision of benefits to
Eligible Retirees comply with applicable law. As such, other than its obligation to pay
the Retiree Medical Subsidy, the City shall have no responsibility and shall face no
liability to any party with respect to the provision of benefits to Eligible Retirees pursuant
to this article.

B. The Union agrees to indemnify the City, and hold the City harmless, against any and all
claims asserted by bargaining unit employees or third parties against the City or any of its
elected or appointed officials, employees, agents, attorneys, or consultants that are in any
way related to or connected with employee or Eligible Retiree participation in the City of
Detroit-Post 2014 Non-Safety Employee Retiree Health Care Trust, including but not
limited to any claims for benefits provided to, or denied, City employees or Eligible
Retirees (or their Spouses or dependents by the City of Detroit-Post 2014 Non?Safety
Employee Retiree Health Care Trust, as well as any and all claims by other persons that
are in any way related to any acts or omissions by the City of Detroit?Post 2014 Non-

44

Safety Employee Retiree Health Care Trust, or its officers, directors, trustees, employees
or agents. 

The Non-Safety VEBA shall hole 2% base salary contributions made by the City toward
retiree health benefits 'under the CBA and contributions for other employee groups eligible to
participate in the City of Detroit General Retirement System. The City shall have no other
contribution or payment obligations to the Non?Safety VEBA. The Non-Safety VEBA trust may
be amended solely by the express written agreement of the parties to the (BA (for amendments
relating to administration that do not materially and significantly increase the cost of retiree
health benefits and those required by law, the parties shall consent without demanding
bargaining or concessions of any sort).

The trustees of the on?Safety VEBA shall establish and administer a health plan for
non?safety retirees of the City of Detroit (the "Plan"), which shall provide a Health
Reimbursement Arrangement for each Eligible Retiree, as described herein.

Eligibility for retiree health benefits under the Plan will be made available to:
1. covered employees under the 

2. City employees who are not represented by a member of the Coalition who are
participants in the and

3. Employees of entities where the City (or its General Retirement System) administers the
retirement benefits of the entity Detroit Public Library) and the entity itself makes
contributions to the VEBA for such employees, in an amount as outlined above, unless
determined otherwise by the VEBA Board;

(herein de?ned as "Eligible Employees") provided that any such employees shall only be eligible
to receive a benefit if they retire from the City during the term of the CBA, but on or after

anttary l, 2015; they commence their pension from the GRS (irrespective of any
delay from GRS in payment of said benefit]. unreduced as a result of early retirement. and (0)
they are not ineligible for these retiree medical benefits as a City employee (such retirees,
"Eligible Retirees?). No other employees, retirees, or persons shall be treated as Eligible
Retirees, Eligibility for retiree health, benelits under the Plan for the above-described individuals
shall be under terms materially identical to those described herein, including the City's obligation
to contribute 2% of base salary to the VEBA.

The Plan shall be administered by a third?party administrator acceptable to the VEBA
trustees. The cost of HRA administration and other related costs shall be assumed by the Non-
VEBA. The Plan shall be structured and implemented in the following manner:

1. The City shall afford each Eligible Retiree the opportunity to make an irrevocable
election as part of the application for an unreduced pension from GRS to either begin
immediate coverage under an HRA or defer receipt of the HRA until after the Eligible
Retiree attains age 65.

45

2. For each Eligible Retiree who elects immediate coverage under an HRA, the City shall
report the results to the Non-Safety VEBA, and the on?S afety VEBA shall establish and
credit the electing Eligible Retiree's HRA, beginning. with the first day of the month
following the month in which such election occurs, with a amount. Such amount
shall be $141 per month in 2019 and shall be increased by 3% annually (rounding up to
the nearest dollar) effective January 2020, and each January thereafter through December
2021. Thus, the amount shall be $141 per month in 2019, $145 per month in
2020, and $150 per month in 2021.

3. Effective January 1, 2019, for each Eligible Retiree who becomes an Eligible Retiree on
or after attaining age 65, or who elects to postpone HRA coverage until age 65, the City
shall report the results to the Non-Safety VEBA. The Non-Safety VEBA shall establish
the HRA for such an Eligible Retiree to begin the first day of the month following the
month in which such Eligible Retiree attains age 65. For Eligible Retirees for whom an
HRA is established following age 65, who deferred receiving such benefit until age 65,
such amount shall be actuarially determined to approximate the same amount as if the
eligible retiree, based upon life expectancy, would have receive had they accepted the
benefit at the time of eligibility. Such amount shall be no less than the amounts re?ected
in paragraph 2 above but may be increased to reflect the deferral of when such amount is
received.

4. The credited HRA amounts described herein shall not be reduced by
administrative expenses for HRA and VEBA administration paid out of the VEBA. The
Non-Safety VEBA shall not be required to make credits to Eligible Retiree HRAs on or
after the expiration of the CBA, except as otherwise provided herein.

5. Notwithstanding the expiration of the CBA or to make payments to the VEBA, to the
extent that a City employee becomes an Eligible Retiree during the term of the CBA, but
postpones HRA coverage until his or her attainment of age 65 such Eligible Retiree upon
attaining age 65 shall receive credits toward the HRA equal in number of months and
amount as if he or she had received the benefit on the date he or she became an Eligible
Retiree for the period from such date through the expiration of the contract.

Sine/reg

83 
Hakim W. Berry Date: Mr 153/?
Director of Labor Relations 

46

