TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

MMJUM.

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

Plymouth United Church of 

100TH Church Anniversary 

With humble beginnings and a deeply rooted commitment to growing the body {if Christ,
Plymouth United Church of Christ is celebrating 100 years of service in the City (it; Detroit;
and

Plymouth United Church of Christ was founded May 4, 1919 as the ?rst African American
Congregational Church in the state of Michigan. It was started by the nine founding members
Deacon Edwards M. Hale; Mrs. Carrie L. Thompson; Mrs. Alize Harris; Mr. M.C. Graham; Mr.
Farley; Mr. Joseph Shannon; Miss Thelma Benjamin; Mrs. Thomas Benjamin and .Mr. Stewart
Thompson; and

Plymouth United Church of Christ from 1919 to 1957 served a multitude of people under the
previous leadership of its ministers. It continued to grow spiritually and in membership under the
leadership of Dr. Rev. Nicholas Hood II. He was a humanitarian and activist. He was the Senior
Minister of Plymouth United Church of Christ from 1958 to 1985. In 1963 he began a housing
ministry that led to the development of the Medical Center Courts apartments for low to
moderate-income families. In 1975 he began construction on the Medical Center Village
Apartments, town houses and senior building. His love and willingness raised the community and
Plymouth to new heights; and

Plymouth United Church of Christ elected Rev. Nicholas Hood after his father?s resignation.
Under his leadership many new members have joined the church, and the involvement of young
people have increased. His outlook has been ecumenical and he has borrowed from other
denominations practices and introduced a return to racial roots through such practices as annual
revivals, voluntary baptism by immersion in the Detroit River; and

Plymouth United Church of Christ has been a source of spiritual support and encouragement for
numerous people who have heeded the call to the ministry. The list of sons and daughters of
Plymouth who have been ordained is long and impressive. Rev. Nicholas Hood HI continues the
tradition to serve the community through membership in numerous civic organizations. His
leadership has extended the church?s missionary outreach to include a personal relationship with
several African nations; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council congratulates
Plymouth United Church of Christ on your 100th Church Anniversary. We thank you for not only
making a difference in the lives of the members, but also the community at large. May God
continue to bless your endeavors as you work to grow the body of Christ.

COUNCIL PREIDENT

?ax-50K.?

 

 

NCIL PHESIDEN Pl COUNCIL MEMBER

film EM 

'1?111?1?



list-AIM; .1 .
Ci NC If EMBEH


.. . x01.

A?fl

 

 

COU EMBEFI


May 19, 201
DATE



   

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY 

YVONNE STOKES

Fisher Magnet Lower Academy Principal

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes was raised in Hamtramck, Michigan and educated in the Hamtramck Public
School System until high school. As a high school student she attended Cass Technical High
School where she grew as a person and made life-long friends; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes? professional education was obtained at Eastern Michigan University where she
received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Elementary Education, with a ZA Endorsement in Early
Childhood Education and a Masters of Arts Degree in Educational Leadership. She started her
journey in education as a teacher at Howe Elementary School winning mini-grants for a
classroom library, hands?on science center and a classroom computer; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes also traveled around the city with the Goods School Rappers, a student group that
spread positive messages about staying in school and doing your best. The student rappers
received ?Spirit of Detroit? awards for their positive in?uence. Her work in developing the 
Team? and ?Lady L?s? boys and girls mentoring programs pointed many students in the right
direction and provided college exposure as a seed for future career possibilities; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes ?rst Principal assignment was at Wilkins Elementary/Middle School on the
eastside of Detroit in 2010. It was named a low achieving school. However, she rallied her staff
to develop a plan to move achievement upward. By August 2013, Wilkins was no longer a low
performing school. Her dedication and commitment to helping students achieve educational
goals is unparalleled; and

WHEREAS Yvonne Stokes in November of 2013 was named the interim Principal of Fisher Magnet Lower
Academy where she has since remained Principal. After thirty years of service she will retire on
June 30, 2019; THEREFORE, BE IT

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and the Detroit City Council recognizes
Yvonne Stokes for her contribution as an educator for the children of the City of Detroit. We
appreciate you for molding our next generation. May God continue to bless you in your future
endeavors.

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

June 12, 2019
DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL



WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

I WRESID I 
a

I
at": NO Fliili ii? 

.ljddir?ff 

r. BER

Jul" 
CONI if r: -

DONNA MICHELLE WHEELER

August 10, 1955 June 2, 2019
In Memoriam

Donna Michelle Wheeler was born to the union of Ed Franklin and Rubye Baker in
Detroit, Michigan on August 10, 1955. She was the second for four children; and

Donna Michelle Wheeler received her education from the Detroit=Public School system
graduating from Southeastern High School. She furthered her education and received a
Medical Assistant certi?cate from Crockett Adult Education. After graduation she was
employed as a Teacher?s Aide at Carsten Elementary School. Later she began a career as
a manager for McDonalds where she was honored for her excellence in customer service
and leadership skills; and

Donna Michelle Wheeler was a devoted wife and dedicated mother and grandmother. She
man'ied the love of her life Pastor James Wheeler in 1977. This union was blessed with
three beautiful children: Terri, Lamont and Diom'ca; and

Donna Michelle Wheeler was a faithful woman of God. In 1984 she received Jesus Christ
as her personal savior and was baptized by the late Pastor R.W. McClendon at First
Progressive Baptist Church. There she grew in faith and fellowship. She joyfully served
on the Progressive Usher Board until health issues arose. Afterwards she served as a
member of the Mother?s Board. She possessed a giving spirit. Her passion was bestowing
gifts upon relatives, friends and church members; and

It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of service, Donna
Michelle Wheeler transitioned from this life, from labor to reward on June 2, 2019;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their
deepest condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Danna
Michelle Wheeler. Your loss is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you
during this time and always.

I. 
A 
I COUNCIL PRE 

. 

 

 

 

 

 

 


rig-?r: i 

I DUNCJL MEEFI

June 8, 2 9
DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr.

Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr., was born on July 20, 1929 in Winnsboro, South Carolina.
He was the youngest of ten children. Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr., was the pastor of
Broadstreet Presbyterian Church for over thirty four years; and

In 1968, Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr. was a founding member of the Black
Presbyterian Caucus (Michigan Chapter, National Organization). Later, in 1976, he started
and organized the first annual Broadstreet community parade, where he brought in a young
Rev. Wendell Anthony to be the coordinator. The event?s purpose was to focus on positive
forces that enhanced the growth of our city, schools, churches, civic and social groups,
neighborhood businesses and agencies. In 1981, he organized the mid-northwest
community churches for the purpose of combating crime through positive programs; and

Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr., received his Doctor of Ministry Degree in 1983. He was
elected to serve as moderator of the Presbytery of Detroit in 1987, and was the first African
American to hold that position in the city of Detroit. Rev. Dr. Glenn Sr. received the
Horbart Jackson Cultural Diversity Award and was responsible for building Presbyterian
Villages senior housing in Detroit in 2007. He was a charter member of the Russell Woods
Lions Club, where he served on the board of directors and as a member of the
Management Council of the Boys and Girls Club. Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr.
marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in the Poor Peoples March in Detroit; and

Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr. was married to Vivian Glenn for fifty-five years she
preceded him in death. They were blessed with two children, Lori Glenn Harris and
Lawrence T. Glenn Jr. He was a world traveler, gardener, family man and friend. He was
loved by many because of what he gave to his community, the surrounding areas and will
forever be missed. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Office of Council President Brenda Jones recognize

the remarkable life and legacy of the Rev. Dr. Lawrence T. Glenn Sr., a life of service that
was well lived. May we continue to always remember and honor himEMS 

 

 

 

coumc MEMBER
June 8, 2019
DATE

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

g/Edtc?w?c?? ?ea/dam

Honoring Father?s Day Champions
Great Faith Ministries In ternational?

WHEREAS: Psalm 133:1 emphatically says to us to, ?Behold, how good and how pleasant it is
for brethren to dwell together in unity!? The Brothers to Brothers Ministry
uni?es the men of Great Faith Ministries International for their personal
edi?cation spiritually, emotionally, mentally, and intellectually to dispatch them
into the world empowered and inspired; AND

WHEREAS: The passion and vision of Apostle Wayne T. Jackson has consistently been to
empower and inspire the men of Great Faith Ministries International to be
undefeated and undisputed champions as upstanding pillars in the community, as
professionals in their chosen careers, and most importantly as husbands and fathers
for their families; AND

WHEREAS: Any man can create a child, but being a father takes a lifetime. Fathers play a role in
every child?s life that cannot be ?lled by others; AND

WHEREAS: Fathers, like mothers, are pillars in the development of a child's emotional well-
being. Involved fathers bring positive bene?ts to their children that no other person
is as likely to bring. They provide protection, economic support and male role
models; AND

WHEREAS: Young girls generally depend on their fathers for security and emotional support. A
father shows his daughter what a good relationship with a man is like. With boys,
they generally model themselves after their father?s character; AND

WHEREAS: Father?s Day Champions honors the men who stand up to the challenges of life and
accept their God-given place as committed and unde?led priests and prophets of
their households and offers men who still need guidance a blueprint for success;
AND

RESOLVED: That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and the entire Detroit City Council

jl?ifisi with Great Faith Ministries International in celebrating their Father?s Day
Champions on Sunday, June 16, 2019



COUNCIL PIQQDENT

 

 

 

 

   

oats

