 

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

May 29, 2019 PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Johnson, Quincy COD and James Rollins
Case No: 18-005319-NF
File No: 

On May 21, 2019 a case evaluation panel evaluated the above-captioned lawsuit and
awarded One Hundred and Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars and NO/Cents in
favor of the plaintiff. The parties have until June 18, 2019, to either accept or reject the case
evaluation. Failure to ?le a written acceptance or rejection within this period constitutes a

rejection.

Based upon our review of the facts and particulars of this lawsuit, which are set forth in a
con?dential memorandum that is being separately hand-delivered to each member of Your
Honorable Body, it is our considered opinion that a settlement in the amount of One Hundred
and Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars and NOICents is in the best interest of the

City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request Your Honorable Body to authorize acceptance of the case evaluation
award: and. in the event Plaintiff accepts the award, to deem such acceptance as a settlement and
to direct the Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable to Quincy Johnson and his
attorney, Khurana Firm. PC, to be delivered upon receipt of properly executed Releases.
Stipulation and Order of Dismissal entered in Lawsuit and, where deemed
necessary by the Law Department a properly executed Medicare/CMS Final Demand Letter.



  
 
 

 
 
 

 

'tal Ognstead
Senior Assistant Corporation Counsel

APPROVED: MAY 3 0 2019
LAWRENCE GARCIA
Corporation Counsel

BY: a, -.:

James D. No Eda
Supervising ssis-tant Corporation Counsel
1

Attachments

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and is hereby authorized in the amount
of One Hundred and Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars and NOICents and be it
further

RESOLVED, that in the event Plaintiff accepts the case evaluation, that such acceptance
is deemed a settlement, and that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized and directed to
draw a warrant upon the proper account in favor of Quincy Johnson and his attorney, Khurana
Law Firm, PC, in the amount of One Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars and N0/Cents
in full payment for any and all claims which Quincy Johnson may have against
the City of Detroit and any other City of Detroit employees by reason of alleged injuries
sustained on or about May 4, 2016, and otherwise set forth in Case that said
amount be paid upon receipt of pr0perly executed Releases, Stipulation and Order ofDismissal
entered in Lawsuit and, where deemed necessary by the Law Department a

properly executed Medicare/CMS Final Demand Letter.

APPROVED:

LAWRENCE GARCIA

Corporation Counsel

BY: a? 4., (if)

 

 

?lmes D. Noses/w? 
Supervising As 1stant Corporation Counsel
Kk



 

Approved by City Council:

Approved by the Mayor:

 

    


500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

May 29, 2019

Honorable Brenda Jones

President, City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Dear President Jones:

Please be informed that the term of of?ce for DBRA Board Member, Ms. Donele Wilkins, will expire on
July 1, 2019. As the City Council's recommended appointee to the DBRA Board, we respectfully request
that you take action to recommend to the Mayor the reappointment of Ms. Wilkins or recommend a new
appointee to the DBRA Board to serve a three-year term expiring on July 1, 2022.

Attached please ?nd the contact information and a resume for Ms. Wilkins.

If you have any questions, please contact Jennifer Kanalos, Director of Board Administration at (313)
483-4150. 

Sincerely,



Malinda Jensen

Authorized Agent

c: City Clerk
City Council
David Whittaker

Rodrick T. Miller
Jennifer Kanalos

Ditroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authoritv?BRA] anrd Member
Term Expires 7/1/19

Ms. Donele Wilkins
441 East Ferry
Detroit Michigan 48202

Donele Wilkins

441 E. Ferry Street djwil51@gmail.com
Detroit, MI 48202 586-457-6788 



Qualification Summary

More than 15 years experience as founder and executive of Non Pro?t Organizations

Excels at building consensus and developing cooperative relationships among partners
Recognized industry leader and mentor who produces results at the community and national levels
Strong strategic planning and implementation skills

Experienced at fundraising via major donors and grant writing

Exceptional at communication, leadership and team building a visionary

Creative problem solver who is comfortable initiating or embracing change

Con?dent at handling sensitive internal organizational relationships

Experienced at starting and expanding programs

National and local leader in the areas of conservation advocacy, fundraising, policy reform, litigation,
research, education and grassroots campaigns

Professional Experience

Operations Management

Managed, led, and developed a team of 70 responsible for implementation of community-based
education programs on a national level

Managed, led, and developed a staff of 30 responsible for conservation advocacy, litigation, research,
education, grassroots organization, board relations, af?liate relations, lobbying and fundraising
Developed and implemented a national strategy for expanding outreach to urban, tribal and Hispanic
youth and their families

Controlled an operational budget of 

Managed the day-to-day operations for an of?ce staff of 15 with an operating budget of 

Founded and served as the CEO of two non-pro?ts

Developed and implemented company business plan

Successfully responsible for keeping programs within budget

Leadership Staff Development

Led several statewide and national coalitions for environmental protection
Taught fundraising and professional development skills as an adjunct instructor for the Detroit
Entreprenurial Institute

Partnerships Collaboration

Collaborated with community-based organizations in the greater Detroit area to engage in
environmental health and justice issues

Worked with state-wide af?liate organizations to build consensus and support for environmental
programs

Developed workforce development

Program Development

Wilkins Resume

Wilkins Resume Page 2 Of 2

Created Workforce Development Program focused on Environmental Green Jobs Sector

Created Several Youth Leadership Programs focused on conservation and environmental stewardship
Developed Core Curriculum for Community Based Environmental Education and Awareness Projects
Designed and Implemented Case Management Projects for the City of Detroit Lead Elimination Projects
Participated on several Community Based Participatory Research Projects

Community Development

Authored Build Up Detroit business plan for Detroiters Working for Environmental Justice

Provided Technical Assistance to several Community DeveIOpment Corporations in the City of Detroit
Appointee to the Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority since 2000

Appointee to the Detroit Works Project- Community Advisory Committee

Employment History

THE GREEN DOOR INITIATIVE (GDI) DETROIT, MI
2010? PRESENT
DETROITERS WORKING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE (DWEJ) DETROIT, MI
Founder/Executive Director 1996-2010
WARM Training Program Detroit, MI
Technical Assistant Provider 1994-1996

Board of Directors Experience (current)

Educa?on

WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY DETROIT, MI
Interdisciplinary Studies

April 14, 2015

