?hicks/(alga
ta/ 

BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

June 12, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6002177 100% City Funding To Provide Oils and Lubricants for the City. 
Contractor: Lynden Oil Company Location: 30692 Tracy Rd.,
Walbridge, OH 43537 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through June 30, 2023 Total Contract Amount: $5,250,000.00.
CITYWIDE

Respect?illy submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER AYERS

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002177 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 12, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

GU

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 2l6

. . Detroit. Michi an 48226
Office of the Auditor General 
CITY OF Fax: (313) 224-4091

DETROIT 
Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

 

AUDIT MEMORANDUM

DATE: June 11. 2019

TO: Honorable City Council
Honorable Mayor Mike Dugga

FROM: Mark w. Lockriclge. 0PM
Auditor General

RE: THE CASINO DEVELOPMENT FUND

Office of Neighborhood Commercial Revitalization Small
Business Detroit Microloan Project

CC: Glen Long, Chief Operating Officer, Detroit Economic Growth
CorporationfEconomic Development Corporation
Stephanie Washington, Esq.. City Council Liaison
Daniel Arking. Attorney. Law Department
David Whitaker, Director1 Legislative Policy Division
Casino Representatives

 

Attached for your review is our report on the Casino Development Fund Office of
Neighborhood Commercial Revitalization project. This memorandum contains: our
audit purpose. scope. objectives, methodology and conclusions, background. our
audit summary.

Responsibility for the installation and maintenance of a system of intemai control
that minimizes errors and provides reasonable safeguards rests entirely with the
Economic Development Corporation.

We would like to thank the employees of the above named organizations for their
cooperation and assistance extended to us during the audit.

Copies of all of the Office of the Auditor General reports can be found on our website
at of the Auditor General

-. 
CLERK JUN aria 1-H- LL.

Audit of the Casino Development Fund
Office of Neighborhood Commercial Revitalization
Small Business Detroit Microloan Project

CONTENTS

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, METHODOLOGY
AND CONCLUSIONS

BACKGROUND
AUDIT SUMMARY

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY AND CONCLUSIONS

AUDIT PURPOSE

The audit of the Casino Development Fund Office of Neighborhood Commercial
Revitalization Business Detroit Microloan project was performed in
accordance with the Office of the Auditor General?s (OAG) charter mandate to conduct
audits of the financial transactions, performance and operations of City agencies based
on an annual risk?based audit plan prepared by the Auditor General, or as otherwise
directed by City Council, and report findings and recommendations to City Council and
the Mayor.

City Council requested that the OAG perform an audit of the Casino Development Fund
in relation to a Legislative Policy Division report dated October 11, 2016.

AUDIT SCOPE

The scope of this audit was an independent review and assessment of the Small
Business Detroit Microloan project. Our audit was conducted in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United
States, except for the completion of an external peer review of the OAG within the last
three years.

AUDIT OBJECTIVES
The overall audit objectives were to:

. Review financial reports and audited financial statements from each sub-grantee
to ensure the Casino Development Funds are properly accounted for and spent
in accordance with program objectives and guidelines as stated in the casino
agreements, Economic Development Corporation of Detroit and
EDC/sub-grantee funding agreements.

0 Conduct a performance audit of each sub-grantee to ensure the Casino
Development Funds are effectively and efficiently received and spent in
accordance with best practices and in support of program objectives and
guidelines.

METHODOLOGY
To accomplish our audit objectives, our audit work included:

. Reviewing the Casino Development Agreements, project funding agreements,
City Charter, the project budget reports. and organization charts.

- Gathering policies and procedures of core operations and similar data.

- Conducting an audit-planning meeting to determine the scope and audit
objectives, and to determine the financial transactions and/or areas to audit.

. Developing questions regarding the Casino Development Fund project's
transactions, controls. functions, records, and personnel.

1

. Identifying risks relative to financial transactions and mitigating controls with
appropriate personnel.

. interviewing appropriate personnel, reviewing documentation, and making
observations to aid in developing audit programs.

CONCLUSIONS
As a result of our audit of the ONCFi-Small Business Detroit Microloan Project, we

concluded that Designated Service Provider (DSP), Center for Empowerment
and Economic Development (CEED):

- Properly accounted for and spent the casino development funds in accordance
with the project objectives and guidelines.

- Used the funds for administrative expenses and to guaranty loans in accordance
with the project objectives.

- Fulfilled their responsibilities as the DSP.

BACKGROUND

Origination of Casino Development Func_ 

The Casino Development Fund is a commitment made by the three Detroit casinos
(MGM Grand Detroit, MotorCity, and Greektown) and the City of Detroit (City), to
contribute money for the purpose of assisting minority business development in a
specified area within the City. The assistance to business development focuses on:
financing facade improvements, GAP financing, loan guaranties, rehabilitation,
equipment and working capital for existing and new businesses.

The City received $2.5 million from MotorCity Casino during the period of the initial
Casino Development Agreements (1998-1999). The City received $30.0 million from the
three casinos ($10.0 million from each casino) in accordance with the Casino
Development Agreements.

Economic Development Corporation

The Economic Development Corporation (EDC) is a public body corporation created by
the Detroit City Council by enactment of Ordinance 120-H effective June 9, 1979. All
services to be performed are set forth in the ?Scope of Services" section of the 
personal service contract and is coordinated and performed by the Detroit Economic
Growth Corporation. The Detroit Economic Growth Corporation is a private non-profit
5010.4 organization and is an agent of EDC that acts as a liaison between EDC and the
City.

Office of Neiqhborhood Commercial Ftevitaligation Project

The Funding Agreement for the Office of Neighborhood Commercial Revitalization
(ONCR) project is between the EDC of the City of Detroit and the City acting by and
through its Planning Development Department.

According to the Funding Agreement between EDC and the City of Detroit, the City
acting through ONCR shall provide services to assist the EDC in its administration of
the Project.

The mission stated in the Targeted Business Fund Work Plan ?is to enhance the
City?s support for small business at the City-wide level and to continue and expand our
support for neighborhood commercial revitalization."

Overview of the Micro-Loan Proiect

The Microloan Fund will assist small retail, restaurant or service businesses to begin or
expand. The Small Business Detroit Community Capital Loan Project will also serve as
a coordinating and advocacy body to make small business technical assistance, City
services, and other forms of small business technical assistance more accessible to
Detroit small businesses.

The Small Business Detroit Microloan Project focused on high risk, low-return loans not
offered by conventional lending institutions and the accompanying high level technical
assistance provided to applicants and loan recipients. The program was intended to

3

serve as a compliment to existing conventional and nonprofit offerings by servicing
small businesses that were generally a higher risk than other entities may be
comfortable extending loans.

Center for Empowerment 8: Economic Development

In 2006, the Center for Empowerment Economic Development (CEED) was selected
as the Designated Service Provider (DSP) by the ONCR to operate the microloan
program. The City wanted to offer a lending program for Detroit-based businesses to
support small businesses and encourage small business development. As the DSP.
CEED received casino development funds to be used for administrative expenses and
the guaranty loans (loss reserve).

Audit Summary

The Funding Agreement between EDC and CEED includes the following duties of
in regards to the project:

ONCR will provide contract compliance regarding the Small Business Detroit
Microloan Program and will act as Program Manager to the Designated Service
Provider (DSP). ONCR will:

. Establish a mechanism for performance monitoring and contract compliance,
which will be conducted on a quarterly basis and reported to ONCR Advisory
Board and EDC.

. Act as Program Liaison between EDC and the DSP.

As the DSP, CEED was required to:
- Provide applicant recruitment and per?loan technical assistance.
. Implement and manage loan client counseling and referral services.
- Provide loan processing and serving to all loan clients.
. Provide program 
. Provide proper program recognition on all published/printed documents.

Funding Information

Per the contract terms outlined in the Funding Agreement between EDC and CEED,
Casino Development Funds were designated for administrative expenses and the
guaranty loans (loss reserve) in relation to this program.

According to the EDC Casino Development Funds Budget and Expenditure report dated
December 31, 2017, CEED had a budget of $1,500,000. EDC distributed the full
amount of funds in three installments. According to the records received from EDC and
CEED reviewed by the auditors, the program generated a total of $34,069.14 in
dividend income bringing the total funds available to $1,534,069.14. CEED spent a total
of $1,487,912 on administrative expenses and the loan loss reserve between 2006 and
2016. As of September 2018, the remaining balance of $46,188 is allocated to the loan
loss reserve to secure loan portfolio.

Proiect Outcomes

Between 2006 and 2018, over 200 applications were received for the program. Seventy-
five applications were approved and 59 loans were made to a total of 42 businesses.
These Detroit?Based Businesses received a total of $1.2 million in funding which has
contributed to the start-up of 27 businesses, creation of 72 jobs and retention of 110
jobs. As of October 2018, 32 of the 42 businesses are still in existence.

CEED has conducted several outreach initiatives including meeting with community
partners, organizing business conferences, and hosting loan presentations with various

5

non-profit, community based organizations throughout the City. Currently, CEED holds
loan orientations every Tuesday morning and one Saturday per month at its Detroit
office at the Grand River Workplace. The program provides 15 hours of growth training
primarily focused on successfully identifying and responding to requests for proposals.
CEED plans to continue making loans to Detroit Based Businesses and to employ two
or more employees to assist with the program operations.

 

DATE:
TO:

FROM:
RE:

CC:

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Detroit. Michigan 48226
Phone: (3l3) 224-3l0l
Fax: (BIB) 224-409l

Office of the Auditor General

or 'trnitmi 5m
DETROIT "1
Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

AUDIT MEMORANDUM

June 11, 2019

Honorable City Council
Honorable Mayor Mike Duggan

Mark w. Lockridge. 

Auditor General

THE CASINO DEVELOPMENT FUND
TechTown Project

Glen Long, Chief Operating Officer, Detroit Economic Growth
Corporation/Economic Development Corporation

Stephanie Washington, Esq., City Council Liaison

David Whitaker. Director. Legislative Policy Division

Casino Representatives

 

Attached for your review is our report on the Casino Development Fund - TechTown
project. This memorandum contains: our audit purpose. scape, objectives,
methodology and conclusionsl background and our audit summary.

Responsibility for the installation and maintenance of a system of internal control
that minimizes errors and provides reasonable safeguards rests entirely with the
Economic Development Corporation.

We would like to thank the employees of TechTown and the Economic Development
Corporation for their cooperation and assistance extended to us during the audit.

Copies of all oi the Office of the Auditor General reports can be found on our website
at of the Auditor General.

Audit of the Casino Development Fund
Project: TechTown

CONTENTS

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES. METHODOLOGY
AND CONCLUSIONS

BACKGROUND
AUDIT SUMMARY

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY AND CONCLUSIONS

AUDIT PURPOSE

The audit of the Casino Development Fund - TechTown project was performed in
accordance with the Office of the Auditor General's (OAG) charter mandate to conduct
audits of the financial transactions, performance, and operations of City agencies based
on an annual risk-based audit plan prepared by the Auditor General, or as otherwise
directed by the City Council, and report findings and recommendations to the City
Council and the Mayor.

City Council requested that the OAG perform an audit of the Casino Develooment Fund
in relation to a Legislative Policy Division report dated October 11 2016.

AUDIT SCOPE

The scope of this audit was an independent review and assessment of the TechTown
project. Our audit was conducted in accordance with Government Auditing Standards
issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, except for the completion of an
extemal peer review of the DAG within the last three years.

AUDIT OBJECTIVES
The overall audit objectives were to:

. Review financial reports and audited financial statements from each sub-grantee
to ensure the Casino Development Funds are pmperly accounted for and spent
in accordance with program objectives and guidelines as stated in the casino
agreements, Economic Development Corporation of Detroit and
EDC/sub-grantee funding agreements.

- Conduct a performance audit of each sub-grantee to ensure the Casino
Development Funds are effectively and efficiently received and spent in
accordance with best practices and in support of program objectives and
guidelines.

MIT METHODOLOGY
To accomplish our audit objectives. our audit work included:

0 Reviewing the Casino Development Agreements, project funding agreements,
City Charter, the project budget reports, and organization charts.

. Gathering policies and procedures of core operations and similar data.

. Conducting an audit-planning meeting to determine the scope and audit
objectives, and to determine the financial transactions and/or areas to audit.

- Developing questions regarding the Casino Development Fund project?s
transactions. controls, functions, records, and personnel.

. Identifying risks relative to financial transactions and mitigating controls with
appropriate personnel.

. Interviewing appropriate personnel, reviewing documentation, and making
observations to aid in developing audit programs.

CONCLUSIONS
As a result of our audit of TechTown, we have concluded that TechTown:

. Properly accounted for and spent Casino Development Funds in accordance with
the project objectives and guidelines.

Spent the Casino DeveIOpment Funds in accordance with best practices and in
support of their objectives to provide opportunities to Detroit based businesses
including women-owned and minority-owned businesses.

. Assisted start-up businesses in accordance with their funding agreement.

BACKGROUND

Origination of Casino Development Fund

The Casino Development Fund is a commitment made by the three Detroit casinos
(MGM Grand Detroit, MotorCity, and Greektown) and the City of Detroit (City), to
contribute money for the purpose of assisting minority business development in a
specified area within the City. The assistance to business development focuses on:
financing facade improvements, GAP financing, loan guaranties, rehabilitation.
equipment and working capital for existing and new businesses.

The City received $2.5 million from MotorCity Casino during the period of the initial
Casino Development agreements (1998-1999). The City received $30.0 million from the
three casinos ($10.0 million from each casino) in accordance with the Casino
Development Agreements.

Economic Development Mn

The Economic Development Corporation (EDC) is a public body corporation created by
the Detroit City Council by enactment of Ordinance 120-H effective June 9, 1979. All
services to be performed are set forth in the ?Scope of Services" section of the 
personal service contract and is coordinated and performed by the Detroit Economic
Growth Corporation (DEGC). The DEGC is a private non-profit 5010.4 organization and
is an agent of EDC that acts as a liaison between EDC and the City.

TechTown Proiect

In an effort to further the City's ability to assist small Detroit-based. women-owned, and
minority-owned business throughout the City, Detroit City Council allocated money
towards the Casino Development Fund project. EDC received funding to administer
various programs per their funding agreement including the TechTown project.
TechTown was founded in 2000 by Wayne State University (WSU), Henry Ford Health
System and General Motors to support tech-based spinoffs from WSU and help
strengthen neighborhood small businesses and commercial corridors across Detroit.
TechTown offers a full suite of entrepreneurial services for tech and neighborhood
businesses, with satellite offices across the City.

Audit Summary

According to the Funding Agreement between the EDC and the City of Detroit, the goal
of the project was to provide TechTown with funds for investment in promising high-tech
start-ups to create jobs in emerging sectors of the economy. TechTown was tasked
with providing funds to businesses and creating an environment where start-ups can
take advantage of university research, student internship opportunities, and assistance
in contract procurement, grant-writing, and consulting services.

Proqram Information

Between 2006 and 2018, TechTown operated several programs to support tech start-
ups and local businesses. TechTown is continuing their efforts to support tech start-ups
and local businesses by providing tech and business assistance programs, co-working,
office space, meeting and event space. TechTown also connects entrepreneurs to
resources, and learning and networking events in Detroit.

Through Casino Development funding, TechTown has administered the following
programs:

. Frontline Accelerator for Science and Technolocw 
The FAST program was available to promising start-up companies at TechTown.
FAST companies received a variety of free or low-cost consulting services,
including market research, business plan writing, public relations and marketing,
and human resources, as well as access to investment capital, legal help,
information technology and other forms of professional support. Participants
were also exposed to the Detroit Entrepreneurial Network, a support group of
entrepreneurs, and the Great Lakes Angels, an investment group that targets
entrepreneurial ventures.

. SmartStart
SmartStart was a business boot camp that offered entrepreneurs a series of
focused workshops on subjects like product development, marketing and
funding. Participants were paired with business mentors to develop a viable
business plan and apply for financial assistance through TechTown. TechTown
also provided participants with office space at its 440 Burroughs Street facility,
technology expertise from Wayne State University faculty, and access to the
web-based Angelsoft database to find angel investors.

. Thrive One Fund
The Thrive One Fund was established to ensure that the goals for Detroit were
met through the investment in minority and women owned businesses in the City.
The program provided loans to women and minority businesses that couldn?t get
standard business funding.

- SWOT Cim
SWOT City is a customized support program for brick-and-mortar small

businesses in Detroit neighborhoods. The program provides coaching to
businesses to help them:

0



0

Determine priorities, define strategies, and set actionable goals.
Develop and refine growth plans.

Identify and navigate processes, including real estate purchase/leasing,
permitting and licensing, grants and loans.

Connect to a broad network of tools and resources, including technical
assistance. subject matter experts, sources of capital, and professional
services.

SWOT City, in partnership with community based organizations, is currently
working in seven Detroit neighborhoods:

Brightmoor (Brightmoor Alliance).

East Jefferson (Jefferson East, Incorporated).

Grandmont Flosedale (Grandmont Flosedale Development Corporation).
Mack Avenue (Eastside Community Network).

Osborn (Osborn Neighborhood Alliance).

Southwest Detroit (Ford Resource and Engagement Center).

University District.

Funding Information

According to the EDC Casino Development Funds Budget and Expenditure report dated
September 30, 2018, TechTown had a budget of $4,000,000. EDC revised the budget
to $3,040,936 and distributed the entire amount to TechTown. As of November 2018,
TechTown has spent all Casino Development Funds received in accordance with the
TechTown project?s objectives.

