?her (815
7a /a.s 

BUD GET, 1 .
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

June 21,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002069 100% City Funding To Provide a Leasing Agreement for Copiers and
Printers. Contractor: Canon Financial Services, Inc. Location: 158
Gaither Drive, Mount Laurel, NJ 08054 Contract Period: July 1, 2019
through June 30, 2024 ?Total Contract Amount: $7,000,000.00.
CITYWIDE

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER AYERS

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002069 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 21, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

 

June 19, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Proposed Ordinance to Amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Finance and Taxation, Article V, Purchases and Supplies, Division 7, Slavery
Era Records and Insurance Disclosure.

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the request Of City Council President Pro Tempore Mary Shef?eld, the above-
referenced ordinance is being submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. This proposed
ordinance will amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation, Article V,
Purchases and Supplies, Division 7, Slavery Era Records and Insurance Disclosure, by amending
Sections 18?5-91, Scope, and 18-5-92, A?idavii of disclosure required, to require contractors that
propose to enter into a contract with the City Of Detroit to disclose any use of inmate labor, and
any income derived directly from, and any investments in, the construction, operations, services,
or activities Of prisons.

This proposed ordinance also re?ects a request made by City Council Member Raquel
Casta?eda?LOpez to include within the disclosures required to be made by contractors any income
derived directly from, or any investments in, the construction, operations, services, or activities of
facilities in the United States that are used for the detention of persons who are not citizens or
nationals Of the United States. Accordingly, this proposed ordinance will amend Chapter 18 Of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation, Article V, Purchases and Supplies, Division 7,
Slavery Era Records and Insurance Disclosure, by amending Sections 18-5-91, Scope, and 18-5-
92, Af?davit of disclosure required, to require contractors that propose to enter into a contract with
the City of Detroit to disclose any income derived directly from, and any investments in, the
construction, Operations, services, or activities of facilities in the United States that are used for
the detention Of persons who are not citizens or nationals of the United States.

 

We are available to answer any questions that you may have regarding the proposed
ordinance. Thank you for your consideration.

Enclosure

Respectfully submitted, it

it Mm

Alex Henderson
Assistant Corporation Counsel

 A 
AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation, Article V, Purchases and Supplies, Division 7, Slavery Era Records and Insurance
Disclosure, by amending Sections 18-5-91, Scope, and 18-5-92, A?idavit of disclosure required,
to require contractors that propose to enter into a contract with the City of Detroit to disclose any
use of inmate labor, and any income derived directly from, and any investments in, the
construction, operations, services, or activities of prisons or of facilities in the United States that

are used for the detention of persons who are not citizens or nationals of the United States.

A19-02972 i 6/19/2019

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation, Article V, Purchases and Supplies, Division 7, Slavery Era Records and Insurance
Disclosure, by amending Sections 18-5-91, Scope, and 18-5-92, A?idavit of disclosure required,
to require contractors that propose to enter into a contract with the City of Detroit to disclose any
use of inmate labor, and any income derived directly from, and any investments in, the
construction, operations, services, or activities of prisons or of facilities in the United States that
are used for the detention of persons who are not citizens or nationals of the United States.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation, Article V,
Purchases and Supplies, Division 7, Slavery Era Records and Insurance Disclosure, be amended
by amending Section 18-5-91 and Section 18-5-92 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 18. FINANCE AND TAXATION.
ARTICLE V. PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES
DIVISION 7. SLAVERY ERA RECORDS AND INSURANCE DISCLOSUREAIQ
PRISON INDUSTRY AND IMMIGRATION DETENTION SYSTEM RECORDS AND
INTERESTS DISCLOSURE.
Sec. 18-5-91. Scope.

This division shall apply to each contractor for goods or services with which the

City enters into a contract, whether or not the contract is subject to competitive bid.

Each contractor to which this division applies shall be responsible for searching

and disclosing recordse?hWEh?metmumm??he??h as

1 6/19/2019

well as?all records of any and all of its predecessor?entity entities, if anv. that are within the
possession or knowledge of the contractor regarding?records?ef investments or pro?ts from the
slave industry, including records of any insurance policies that were issued to slave holders?whisk
and that provided coverage for injury, death, or other loss related to slaves who were held during
the slavery era in the United States.

(3) Each contractor to which this division applies shall be responsible for searching
and disclosing its records. as well as records ol?anv and all of its predecessor entities. il'anv. that
are within the possession or knowledge of the contractor and that indicate:

(1) The use of inmate labor in the course of the contractor?s or a predecessor entity?s

business; er

(2) Anv income has been derived from. or anv investments in. the constructi?

operations, services. or activities of prisons.

Each contractor to which this division applies shall be responsible for searching
and disclosing its records. as well as records of any and all of its predecessor entities. if any. that
are within the possession or knowledge of the contractor and that indicate any income has been
derived directlv from. or anv investments in. the construction. operations. services. or activities of
facilities in the United States that are used for the detention of persons who are not citizens or
nationals of the United States.

Sec. 18-5-92. Affidavit of disclosure required.
As part of its contract package, each contractor with which the City enters into a

contract shall submit to Of?ce of Contracting and

Procurement prior to the submission to City Council for approval of such contract, an af?davit that

 

discloses the information indicated in Subsections and and gel of this section. The

2 6/19/2019

af?davit shall be on a form provided by Of?ce of

Contracting and Procurement.

 

The af?davit shall verify that the contractor has searched all records?ef?the
as well as all records of any and all of
it_s predecessor-entity entities. it'any, that are within the possession or knowledge of the contractor


Investments or pro?ts from the slave industry, including records of any insurance

policies issued to slave holders which provided coverage for injury, death, or other
loss related to slaves who were held during the slavery era in the United States;
(2) The use of inmate labor in the course of business;
Q) Financial interests in the construction, operations. services or activities ofprisons:


Financial interests in the construction. operations services, or activities of facilities
in the United States that are used for the detention of persons who are not citizens
or nationals of the United States.

(0) The af?davit shall disclose any information discovered during the search regarding
investments or pro?ts from slavery or slave holder insurance policies-JaLlsiehM accrued to the
aberrant?entity contractor or to any predecessor entity, including the names of any slaves or slave
holders that are described in such records or are otherwise within the knowledge of the contractor.

The affidavit shall disclose anv information discovered during the search regarding:

Q) The use of inmate labor in the course of the contractor?s or a predecessor entity?s

business; and

A19-02972 3 6/19/2019

the contractor?s or a predecessor entity?s income derived directly from, or
any investments by the contractor or a predecessor entity in. the construction.
operations. services, or activities of prisons.

The af?davit shall disclose any information discovered during the search regarding
any of the contractor?s or a predecessor entity?s income derived directly from, or any investments
by the contractor or a predecessor entity in, the construction, operations, seryices, or activities of
facilities in the United States that are used for the detention of persons who are not citizens or
nationals of the United States.

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4-118(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is
passed by less than two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become
effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118(2) of the 2012

Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

A19-02972 4 6/19/2019

