?Pct??cwals
(a/ll/w)

BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

QEitp of ?etrnit 

OFFICE OF THE AUDITOR GENERAL

 

 

Audit of the Coleman A. Young
International Airport
July 1, 2016 June 30, 2018

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216

. Detroit, Michigan 48226
Office of the Auditor General Phone: (313)224-3101
CITY OF Fax: (313) 224-4091

DETROIT 

   

  

Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

MEMORANDUM

DATE: June 3, 2019

TO: Honorable City Council
Honorable Mayor Mike D1111

it

FROM: Mark W. Lockridge, CPA

Auditor General
RE: AUDIT OF THE COLEMAN A. YOUNG INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
CC: Brad Dick, Group Executive, Infrastructure

Jason Watt, Airport Department Director

David P. Massaron, Acting Chief Financial Officer
John Wallace, Agency CFO

Stephanie Washington, Esq., City Council Liaison

 

Attached for your review is our report on the Audit of the Coleman A. Young International Airport
(Airport Department). This report contains our audit purpose, scope, objectives, methodology
and conclusions; background, our audit findings and recommendations; and the responses from
the Airport Department and the Office of the Chief Financial Officer.

Responsibility for the installation and maintenance of a system of internal control that minimizes
errors and provides reasonable safeguards rests entirely with the Airport Department.
Responsibility for monitoring the implementation of recommendations is set forth in Section 7.5-
105(4) of the City Charter which states in part:

Recommendations that are not put into effect by the department shall be reviewed by the
Finance Director who shall advise the Auditor General and the City Council of the action
being taken with respect to the recommendations.

We Would like to thank the employees of the Airport Department and the Office of the Chief
Financial Officer for their cooperation and assistance extended to us during the audit.
Copies of all of the Office of the Auditor General reports can be found on our website at
of the Auditor General.

AUDIT OF THE COLEMAN A. YOUNG INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

July 1, 2016 June 30, 2018

CONTENTS
Page
AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY AND 1
CONCLUSIONS
BACKGROUND 3
STATUS OF PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS 5

AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1. The Airport Department Failed to Secure Lease Agreements for 6
Some Tenants

2. The Airport Department Failed to Obtain City Council Approval for 8
Leases
3. The Airport Department Failed to Maintain Capital Assets- 9
Miscellaneous Buildings
4. Controls Over Refundable Deposits Are Inadequate 13
NOTEWORTHY ACCOMPLISHMENTS 15

AGENCY RESPONSE

Airport Department ATTACHMENT A
Office of the Chief Financial Officer ATTACHMENT 

AUDIT PURPOSE, SCOPE, OBJECTIVES, METHODOLOGY, AND CONCLUSIONS

AUDIT PURPOSE

The audit of the Coleman A. Young International Airport (Airport Department) was
performed in accordance with the Office of the Auditor General?s charter mandate as
noted in Section which states:

Make audits of the financial transactions, performance and operations of City
agencies based on an annual risk-based audit plan prepared by the Auditor
General, or as otherwise directed by City Council and report findings and
recommendations to City Council and the Mayor.

AUDIT SCOPE

Our audit focused on the Airport Department?s internal control procedures for
transactions of cash receipts, disbursements, revenue, capital assets, and year-end
closing procedures for the period from July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2018; and the
status of prior audit findings.

Our audit was conducted in accordance with Government Auditing Standards issued by
the Comptroller General of the United States, except for the completion of an external
peer review of the Office of the Auditor General within the last three years.

AUDIT OBJECTIVES
The audit objectives were:

. To determine the efficiency and effectiveness of the department?s core
operations.

a To evaluate the adequacy of the department?s internal controls over the major
financial reporting processes, specifically, cash receipts, disbursements, capital
assets, and revenues noting any control weaknesses.

. To determine whether the department is complying with applicable Finance
Directives, policies, plans, procedures, laws, and regulations.

- To determine the status of each audit finding and issue of non-compliance in the
prior audit report.
AUDIT METHODOLOGY
To accomplish the audit objectives, our audit work included:

0 Reviewing the prior audit report and working papers, City Charter, Municipal
Manual, City?s financial reports, the department?s budget reports and
organization charts.

. Gathering policies and procedures of core operations and similar data.

. Conducting an audit-planning meeting to determine the scope and audit
objectives, and to determine the financial transactions and/or areas to audit.

 Developing questions regarding the department?s transactions, controls,
functions, records, and personnel.

- identifying risks relative to financial transactions and mitigating controls with
department personnel.

- Interviewing department personnel, reviewing documentation, and making
observations to aid in developing audit programs.

CONCLUSIONS
We determined that the Airport Department:
Was efficient and effective in their core operations.
- Controls over refundable deposits were inadequate.
- Did not comply with applicable procedures. The Airport Department:
0 Failed to secure Lease Agreements for tenants.
0 Failed to obtain City Council approval for Leases.
0 Failed to maintain Capital Assets Miscellaneous Buildings.

. Resolved four of six prior audit findings and the one prior issue of non-
compliance.

BACKGROUND

The Detroit City Airport opened in 1927. The original terminal building located at the
southeast corner of the airport was completed in 1930. In 1966, a new terminal was
added to the northwest corner of the complex, and the original terminal/administration
building and adjoining airplane hangars became known as the Executive Terminal.

A runway expansion occurred in 1988, but the runways were still too short for many
commercial flights. All commercial airlines left the airport by 2000. The Detroit City
Airport was renamed the Coleman A. Young International Airport in 2003 and is
currently owned by the City of Detroit. The current terminal (built in 1966) is used for
private, cargo, and corporate flights under the Department of Transportation, Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) jurisdiction.

Today, the City of Detroit leases space in some of the hangars for storage of private
and corporate airplanes. Other hangars are used for storage and display of airplanes
that are part of the World Heritage Air Museum and two Hangar bays are currently
rented out for events by AVFlight, a third party contractor.

AVFlight became the fixed based operator for the Airport Department in 2011. The
most recent contract was approved in April 2016, by City Council for a three year term
expiring on June 30, 2019. As part of the contract, the vendor also collects landing and
aircraft parking fees on behalf of the Airport Department. According to the agreement,
the Airport Department is to receive the following percentages of fees generated or
collected by AVFlight.

 

 

AIRPORT DEPARTMENT
REVENUE TYPES PERCENTAGE OF FEES
T-Hangar Rental 100%
Bay Rental 100%
Parking/Tie Down Fees 85%
Landing Fees 85%
Fuel Flowage Fees $0.10 per gallon of aircraft fuel received
Concession Fee 4% of Total Gross Receipts
Office Space Rental 100%

Special Events

The Airport Department?s mission is that it continues to evolve by bringing costs in line
with revenue and improving services. The emerging strategy is to accelerate the growth
of Detroit as a commercial and industrial transportation center and maximize the
Colman A. Young Airport?s economic benefit to the community and region.

The Airport Department is an enterprise agency, and receives a general fund subsidy.
The general fund subsidy for the Airport Department for fiscal year 2017-2018 is
$900,000. Mr. Jason Watt was appointed director of the Airport Department in March
2014.

Office of the Chief Financial Officer

Emergency Manager Order no. 41 dated March 28, 2013 ordered in part, that the Chief
Financial Officer establish a centralized financial management organizational structure,
to be called the Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO). The OCFO is a
centralized financial management operation which consolidates all finance related
functions within the City. The OCFO oversees, controls and directs all finance personnel
within all City departments, divisions, and agencies. The OCFO includes the following
divisions: Executive Office of the Office of Chief Financial Officer, Office of Budget,
Office of Assessor, Office of Contracting Procurement, Office of Controller, Office of
Departmental Financial Services, Office of Financial Planning Analysis, Office of
Grants Management, and Office of Treasury.

The Office of Departmental Financial Services (ODFS) is a financial partner to City
agencies. Areas of focus include budget administration, program analysis/evaluation,
finance and accounting, internal controls, financial systems, strategic planning, and
performance metrics. Finally, John Wallace is the current ODFS Agency CFO assigned
to the Airport Department and is responsible for the ODFS staff assigned to the Airport
Department. Every city department has an ODFS Agency CFO assigned to assist it in
various financial transactions.

STATUS OF PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS

The prior audit report on the Airport Department dated September 2009 contained six
findings and one noncompliance issue. The status of each prior audit finding is noted.

1.

Airport Department Does Not Verifv the Accuracy of Concession Revenue
This finding has been resolved.

Inadequate Controls over Refundable Deposits
This finding has not been resolved and is discussed in Finding #4 on page 13 of
this report.

Inadequate Controls Over Cash Receipts
This finding has been resolved.

Inadequate Controls Over lmprest Cash
This finding has been resolved.

Airport Department Does Not Fullv Comply with the Citv Purchasinq Directive
This finding has been resolved.

Airport Department Did Not Obtain Lease Aqreements
This finding has not been resolved and is discussed in Finding #1 on page 6 of
this report.

Airport Department Did Not Fullv Complv with the Year-end Closing Procedures
This finding has been resolved.

AUDIT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1. The Airport Department Failed to Secure Lease Aqreements for Some Tenants
The Coleman A. Young International Airport (Airport Department) currently rents 58
units including Hangars (Small, Medium, and Large), Bays and other. The Airport
Department acts as its landlord. A landlord is the party agreeing to transfer possession
and use of the rental property, usually the owner (but may also include an agent or
employee of the owner, or a management company). The business or individual
occupying space at the Airport are tenants. A tenant is the party taking possession and
use of the rental property from the landlord under a lease. A tenant?s right to
possession and use is called a tenancy or leasehold.

A lease is a contract between the tenant and landlord, transferring possession and use
of the rental property. The Airport Department leases are Periodic Tenancy or Tenancy
at Will. This type of tenancy is perpetual in duration. It is created by actual or implied
consent. ln month-to-month tenancy, the lease is considered renewed at the end of
each rental period (month-to-month or week?to-week, depending on how often rent must
be paid). The termination procedure is governed by Michigan Complied Laws and
requires notice.

We determined that:
- 16 of 58 (or 28%) tenants currently do not have leases.

42 of 58 (or 72%) leases of current tenants were available for review.

. 9 of 58 (or 16%) tenants have leases that were originated between 1988 and
2007.

. Tenants are paying rates that were last modified in August 2006.
- 4 of 58 (or tenants with leases do not have a rent amount listed.

- 8 of 58 (or 14%) tenants are not paying the amount of rent listed in their
agreement.

A Practical Guide for Tenants and Landlords prepared by the Michigan Legislature
reads as follows:

A lease can be written or oral, but a written lease provides the best protection for
both the landlord and the tenant. Whether there is a fixed-term tenancy or a
periodic tenancy, it is best to have a written record of the rental agreement. A
written record is a permanent record that may be used for reference if
misunderstandings arise.

The common-law requirements for a commercial lease (or an agreement to lease) are
minimal. An agreement on four basic points is required: (1) the parties, (2) the property,
(3) the amount of rent to be paid, and (4) the duration of the lease.

Failure to secure appropriate lease agreements from the tenants increases the risk that
misinterpretations regarding the provisions and conditions of the tenant?s occupancy
may occur. The Airport Department is not collecting the appropriate amount of revenue
and no one is reviewing the amount of revenue collected which reduces the amount of
funds they have available for operating cost. In addition, the Airport Department is not
provided with any certainty as to how long the tenants will occupy the premises.

According to an Airport staff member, they are in the process of converting lease
agreements to license agreements with the assistance of the City?s Law Department.

We determined that written lease agreements are not always obtained nor updated for
tenants. Rental rates have not been changed since 2006 and leases may have been
lost or misplaced because some of the leases are more than 30 years old.

RECOMMENDATIONS

We recommend that the Airport Department:

. Implement annual or multi-year tenant leases with definite term limits which will
require the Airport to review leases at some pre?determined level.

. Obtain, update and retain leases for all tenants ensuring that all required
provisions are included in the document.

. Review the Revenue Fee schedule to determine if an increase in fees is
appropriate.

- Document any variation to rental amounts including the reason why the variance
was granted.

2. The Airport Department Failed to Obtain City Council Approval for Leases

The Airport Department has 58 tenants. None of the respective lease agreements had
any documentation indicating that they were reviewed or approved by City Council as
required by the City's Charter.

In the City Charter?s Detroit Code of Ordinances, Section 18-5-21, requires Council
approval for certain contracts including all revenue contracts, regardless of dollar value.

Also, Section 4-1-2 of the City?s Charter, Responsibilities of Airport Department
requires:

a The department may, with the approval of City Council lease any of the buildings
or land under its control whenever required by the interest of the City.

- The department may make, with the approval of the City Council, all contracts or
leases necessary to carry out the objectives and purposes of the department, as
provided in this section.

All leases:

. Are not authorized by City Council and have not been reviewed by the Law
Department.

- Are missing information such as rent amounts, tenant signatures, and/or
signatures from appropriate City representative(s).

- May not be enforceable as written.
Some tenant leases

An Airport Department staff member was not aware of the exact language contained in
the Detroit Code of Ordinances. In addition, the staff member believed that a change
from a lease agreement to a license agreement would not require the City Council
approval.

RECOMMENDATION

We recommend that all revenue contracts (as determined by the Law Department) be
approved by City Council in accordance with the Detroit Code of Ordinances.

3. The Airport Department Failed to Maintain Capital Assets-Miscellaneous
Buildings

We toured the miscellaneous buildings at the Airport which included hangars, bays, and
buildings. We determined that the following capital assets were not properly maintained
by the Airport Department:

The Executive Terminal

 

 

 

 

Below are photos of four hangars in poor condition. In total there are 53 North Connor
T-hangars, 9 small, 20 medium and 8 large Southwest T-hangars and 6 bays.

 

The Government Finance Officers Association Capital Asset Management Best
Practices requires:

- Allocating sufficient funds in the multi-year capital plan and annual operations
budget for the condition assessment determination and reporting, preventative
maintenance, repair, renewal and replacement of capital assets in order to
continue the provision of services that contribute to public health, safety, and
quality of life of the public.

10

. Each government should establish an on-going source of funds in both the multi-
year capital plan and operating budget for the maintenance and renewal and
replacement needs of its capital assets consistent with this best practice. If the
capital assets are part of the function of an enterprise fund, the rates, fees and
charges may need to be adjusted to meet the funding requirements.

Failure to maintain the units resulted in potential lost revenue for these units is as
follows:

 

Potential
Unit Type Units Not Lost Revenue
Occupied for 12 months
North Connor T-Hangars $210/month 53 $133,560.00
Southwest Small Hangars $210/month 9 22,680.00
Southwest Medium Hangers $235/month 20 56,400.00
Southwest Large Hangers $350/month 8 33,600.00

The Bays Below are rented based on square footage $3.30:

POtential
Bay Number Lost Revenue
89. Feet for 12 months
3 12,342 40,728.60
4 11,763 38,817.90
6 11,763 38,817.90
7 11,763 38,817.90
8 11,763 38,817.90
12 11,763 38,817.90
Total Annual Lost Revenue $481,058.10

The lack of investment makes it increasingly difficult to sustain the asset in a condition
necessary to provide expected service levels. Ultimately, deferring essential
maintenance or asset replacement reduces the Airport?s ability to provide services and
could threaten public health, safety and overall quality of life. In addition, as the
physical condition of the asset declines, deferring maintenance and/or replacement
could increase long-term costs and liabilities.

The hangars are causing a dangerous environment for Airport Department staff and
guest. There are four families of coyotes living on the Airport property, birds have
inhabited some of the hangars causing a bio-hazard from waste ultimately
compromising the health and safety of individuals as well as impacting the City?s ability
to rent these facilities to generate revenue.

We determined that budgetary pressures have impeded the Airport Department?s
expenditure and investment for maintenance and replacement of capital assets.

11

RECOMMENDATION

We recommend that the Airport Department specifically include plans to maintain the
hangars, bays, and buildings in its capital agenda.

12

4. Controls Over Refundable Deposits Are Inadequate

The Airport Department collects refundable security deposits for hangar, bay rentals,
badges and keys. Refundable deposits are liabilities. Tenants who terminate their
leases with the Airport Department are entitled to a refund of their deposit. The Airport
Department?s Refundable Deposits as of June 30, 2018 are as follows:

Amount Purpose
$10,619.50 Rent
1 ,725.00 Badges
6.00 Keys
$12,350.50 . TOTAL

The following conditions exist:

- The refundable deposits are commingled with Airport Department?s general
operating funds.

- There is currently no written policy on how to handle refundable deposits.

. The list of refundable deposits does not have the date that the deposit was
received nor the contact information for the individual that paid the deposit.

- 8 of 38 (or people with refundable rent deposits tested on the list do not
have a current lease.

a 8 of 10 (or 80%) people with refundable badge deposits tested did not have
current Airport Security Badges

Tenants are entitled to a refund of their initial deposit once the Airport Department
receives a thirty-day written notice indicating the tenant is vacating their rental space
and there is no outstanding balance due on the tenant?s account. Refundable deposits
should be held separately from all other funds and should be available once the
aforementioned conditions are met.

Refundable deposits are not revenue to the Airport Department. When Tenant
Refundable Deposits are commingled with the Airport Department?s general operations
and maintenance funds, enough funds are not available to cover the tenant liabilities of
the airport.

According to an Office of the Chief Financial Officer staff person:

- The refundable deposits are not in a restricted account.

0 The funds were deposited in the Airport Department Operations account prior to
2016, 2017 and 2018.

. Office of Departmental Financial Services (ODFS) deems the amount to be
immaterial taken as a whole and it?s highly unlikely that all customers with
deposits would require a refund at one-time.

13

RECOMMENDATIONS

We recommend the Airport Department:

Work with the Office of the Treasury to secure the Refundable Deposits in
accordance with Treasury?s mission which is ?to effectively, timely and
accurately collect and record all taxes, special assessments, fees and other
monies received by the City of Detroit; act as the custodian of all funds and
other assets belonging to the City; and disburse all funds as authorized by the
City Chief Financial Officer/Finance Director.?

Create a written policy regarding the handling of Refundable Deposits.
Revise tenant lease agreements (if necessary) to include language that
specially states what will happen to the refundable deposit when a tenant
vacates the property by abandonment, regular lease termination or eviction
due to default of lease payments.

Update the list of Refundable Deposits and return Refundable Deposits if the
tenant is longer at the Airport.

14

NOTEWORTHY ACCOMPLISHMENTS

The old Southwest Airline Office building located at 11499 Connor which was vacated in
1993 has recently been renovated and reopened in October 2018 as the Youth in
Aviation Building.

 

With dOnated funds over the past year, non-profit 'We the?Friends of Detroit City Airport
have renovated the building just east of the terminal for Youth Education in
Aviation. The building has two classrooms, as well as meeting and office space. The
program includes aviation, science, technology, engineering, mathematics and the
potential economic opportunities.

FDCA also collaborated with the Tuskegee Airmen - Detroit Chapter to bring aviation
student training. The Tuskegee Airmen are remembered and commemorated on a wall

inside the building.

1? I 1
ill DILTRQIT Cw.

Ii Somme->4



 

During the audit, the audit team met with the following groups that are trying to assist
the Airport Department and the City of Detroit with revitalizing the Airport and the
surrounding neighborhood by introducing City residents, especially children to aviation
and aviation careers.

Civil Air Patrol The Civil Air Patrol (CAP) is the official U.S. Air Force auxiliary and is
a nonprofit organization. CAP is tasked by the Air force to perform 90% of US. inland
search and rescue missions. Members play a leading role in aerospace education and
serve as mentors to nearly 24,000 young people in the cadet program. They
currently have 20 members at the City Airport.

Tuskegee Airman Detroit Chapter Founded in 1941, and nicknamed, ?The Red-
Tails,? the Tuskegee Airmen were the group of African-American pilots, who were
allowed to fight in World War II, after First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt highlighted their
training. Officially they formed the 332nd Fighter Group and the 477th bombardment
Group of the Army Air Force.

Many veteran Tuskegee Airmen have distinguished themselves and made substantial
contributions to our country. Detroit has the distinction of starting the first membership
chapter, and has several Documented Original Tuskegee Airmen in our community to
inspire and mentor our youth. They have approximately 20 children in their program
right now.

Friends of Detroit City Airport Mission is to expose the aviation industry to Detroit
area youth as a career path and showcase the leadership and development
opportunities of this community. They provide opportunities focusing on:

0 Youth education in aviation (with a S.T.E.M. curriculum base)

. Community improvement/economic development

. Increased efforts to return youth aviation education back to airport grounds
. Celebrating sponsor investment (successful donor fundraising)

. 90 years of continuous service on the east side at Gratiot Conner

The Detroit City Council Airport Task Force Their purpose it to maximize the return
to the city of Detroit through retaining the airport functioning for aviation purposes.

Black Pilots of America (BPA) Their purpose is to encourage youth to remain in

school and to enter the field of aviation and promote aviation to people from all walks of
life. EPA is a branch of the Tuskegee Airmen.

16

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CI NTI 
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. SUITE 126
DETROI I. MICHIGAN 48226
Cm, DETROIT PHONE 3 I 3-224-3400
OFWCE FAX: 3 3.224 "1 i 28


March 28, 2019

Mark W. Lockridge, Auditor General

Of?ce of the Auditor General

2 Woodward Avenue

Room 216, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Dear Mr. Lockridge:

The following presents the Coleman A. Young International Airport?s responses for the indicated
?ndings and recommendations for the Audit of the Coleman A. Young International Airport report
as prepared by the Of?ce of the Auditor General.

Finding No. 1 Airport Long Term Lease

Response:

The Airport's long term leases are all being placed under contract. Purchasing is waiting on ?nal
clearances from two of the tenants - Law Department is reviewing what they have so far. When
this is completed we will send to Council.

Finding No .2: Airport Short Term Leases

Response:

For the short term leases (under 30 days) we are going to present Council with a Resolution
allowing the Airport Director to negotiate and settle those leases internally for a period of IS
months. During that period we will work with Council on a potential ordinance change allowing
this process to occur - if approved by Council - with corresponding reporting to appropriate parties.

We believe we have a good action plan in place and 1 working with Jason and his team to "tighten"
up these long neglected processes with the Airport.

?iincerel 
616/ 97??
Brad Dick

Group Executive

MICHAEL E. DUGGAN. MAYOR

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

 

CITY OF DEIROIT 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1010
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Detroit, MI 48226
OFFICE OF DEPARTMENTAL FINANCIAL SERVICES Phonet (313) 224-3379
(ITYOF
DETROIT
March 28, 2019

Mark Lockridge, Auditor General
Office of the Auditor General

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 216
Detroit, MI 48226

Dear r. Lockridge:

The following presents the Department's response for the indicated findings and related
recommendations in the Audit of the Coleman A. Young International Airport prepared by the
Office of the Auditor General.

Finding No. 4 Controls Over Refundable Deposits Are Inadequate
RECOMMENDATION
We recommend the Airport Department:

Open a separate bank account for the Refundable Deposits to ensure that the funds are
safeguarded and available.

Create a written policy regarding the handling of Refundable Deposits. Revise tenant lease
agreements (if necessary) to include language that specially states what will happen to the
refundable deposit when a tenant vacates the property by abandonment, regular lease
termination or eviction due to default of lease payments.

Update the list of Refundable Deposits and return Refundable Deposits if the tenant is longer at
the Airport.

AIRPORT RESPONSE

Management is in the process of updating the Refundable Deposit procedures in connection
with the Airport Revenue Resolution. These procedures will be updated to align with the policy
statements contained in CFO Directives 2018-101-017: Cash Management and 2018-109?001:
Cash Handiim, which govern cash management and handling. This update is expected to be
completed before June 30, 2019.

The Refundable Deposits liability (list) was posted in the General Ledger and CAFR year-end
report at June 30, 2018. Refundable Deposits were also reported via the City of Detroit's year-
end forms closing process.

Finally, the Of?ce of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO) does not agree with the
recommendation to open a separate bank account for Airport refundable deposits. Consistent



OCFO-ODFS Response to Coleman A. Young International Airport Audit Page 2 of 2

with CFO Directive 2018-101?017: Cash Management, the OCFO is in the process of
consolidating City bank accounts into a common cash pool. Section 6.5.1 of this Directive states:
"In order to optimize earnings, City Funds shall be deposited into the City's main cash pool
unless a segregated account is required by State, Federal or other guidelines bond
documents).? No such requirements or guidelines govern refundable deposits and we believe
that it is proper for them to be maintained in the common pool.

Sincerely,

L,

John Wallace

Agency CFO

Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Office of Departmental Financial Services
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1100
Detroit, MI 48226

CC: Brad Dick, Group Executive, Infrastructure
Jason Watt, Airport Department Director
David P. Massaron, Acting Chief Financial Officer
Stephanie Washington, Esq., City Council Liaison



'City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN SCOTT FL BENSON

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: Alvin Horhn, Assessor?s Of?ce 

  

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 j/ 1?

CC: Hon. James Tate Jr., Chair, Standing Committee
Hon. anee Ayers, Chair, Standing Committee
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Marcell Todd, Director, CPC
David Massaron, CFO
Maurice Cox, Director, 
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 5 June 2019
RE: PARKING LOT TAX RECEIPTS

As Detroit looks to be as ef?cient as possible with our downtown property, please
provide the following data in a spreadsheet and on a map:

Percentage of downtown property that is made up of surface parking lots.
Total property tax revenue accrued from these lots annually.

Total income tax revenue accrued from these lots annually.

Current zoning for each of the surface parking lots.



Please provide the information by 15 June 2019. If you have any questions do not
hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

