71c Farrah:

v/z/tq

NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 Woomwmp AVENUE. SUITE l026

Cm .1- DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226
0 mm - - PHONE: 3 l3 - 628-2l58
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF L-R Fax: 3? . 224 . 0542

or IENT GR NTS
OFFICE DE EL Pit: AND A 

May 29. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 Summer Mini Grant

The United Way for Southeastern Michigan has awarded the City of Detroit General
Services Department with the FY 2019 Summer Mini Grant for a total of $31,213.00.
There is no match requirement. The grant period is May 1, 2019 through August 31.
2019.

The objective of the grant is to support the implementation of the 2019 Summer Food
Service Program. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to develop and
implement a replicable strategy to improve staff quality through hiring practices. training,
or other innovative approaches.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20662.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:

Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants

Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department

This request has been approved by the Of?ce of Budget

Office of Development and Grants cm 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the United Way for Southeastern Michigan. in the amount of $31,213.00, to
support the Implementation of the 2019 Summer Food Service Program; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20662, in the amount of $31,213.00. for the FY 2019 Summer Mini Grant.

Page 1 OH

United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Grant Agreement

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

1. Introduction
United Way for Southeastern Michigan, a Michigan non-profit corporation of 3011 W. Grand Blvd. Suite 500,
Detroit. MI 48202 has approved a grant $31,213 (the ?Grant") to City of Detroit Perks and
Recreation Department of 18100 Meyers Road. Detroit. MI 48235 (the ?Fartner?L The Grant is being made to
support several speci?c strategies that combat known barriers to Meet Up and Eat Up (MUEU) expansion and
increase the number of meals served. as well as specific strategies to improve children's experiences at MUEU
sites through nutrition education and physical activity programming. This Grant Agreement establishes the legal
terms and conditions of the awarding and use of the Grant and constitutes the entire agreement between parties.

2. Overview
UWSEM's strategic response to community need will focus on creating measurable Opportunities for communities
in Southeastern Michigan to succeed and thrive, with an emphasis on addressing those issues that the
community cares about.

UWSEM values the strategies and outcome(s) proposed by the Partner and invests in its efforts to measurably
improve the Southeastern Michigan region.

3. Model Description
United way for Southeastern Michigan is designed to improve the overall quality of life for the people of
Southeastern Michigan. Our efforts are focused on creating stronger communities. neighborhoods and families
- especially those most at risk and vulnerable. We strive to make sure that every child is born into an environment
that supports their development and nurtures their potential; that there is nutritious food on every table. that
residents have safe and connected neighborhoods and that individuals and families are able to ?nancially support
and sustain themselves.

4. Issue Date
The Grant has been Issued by UWSEM on April 30, 2019

5. Grant Period
The effective funding cycle Is May 1. 2019 August 31. 2019 unless otherwise indicated (the ?Grant Period").
Funding may be adjusted based on UWSEM's overall campaign performance.

6. Grant Contingencies
Contingencies are defined as issues or concerns that arises during the grant period and was an unforeseen
event period with written notification to the other party of the event or circumstance. Mutually, it will be
determined if any contingencies arise that will need to be resolved before the Grant is able to continue with
payment and deliverables outlined in this grant agreement.

7. Expectations

Expectations of Partners

0 To maintain up to date contact information for the organization with Partner's UWSEM staff liaison.

- To adhere to all expectations, policies, procedures. ?nancial and programmatic reporting deadlines as
outlined in this Grant Agreement.

- To comply with and support all applicable laws concerning unlawful discrimination and having a written
policy that is in compliance with such laws.

- To support undesignated giving to the United Way campaign. This includes not actively soliciting for
designated contributions in the workplace or for payroll deduction gifts Independent of United Way and
not advertising or promoting the UWSEM campaign as a vehicle for designating contributions.
To not affiliate with a fundraising campaign that operates in competition with the UWSEM.
To inform UWSEM staff in writing of strategic alliances and mergers or collaborations and partnerships
(see Appendix i for details).

Participate in MUEU Sponsor meetings convened by UWSEM as scheduled.

United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Grant Agreement

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

If you are not already using the MUEU Meal Counting app for Summer 2019. the partner is required to
contact the Health Kids team to learn more about Its utility In the program and discuss options.

If you have not already done so for Summer 2019. the partner is required to contact the healthy Kids team
to learn more about FEAST and how it can be Incorporated in the MUEU feeding environment.

Expectations of UWSEM:

To provide access to reasonable support from UWSEM staff to assist with applying for grants. outcome
measurement. building partnerships. training opportunities and other types of technical assistance.

To conduct an annual community-wide fundraising campaign and use its best efforts to solicit gifts and
contributions to support human service needs in Southeastern Michigan.

To respect Partner's autonomy to determine its policies of operation and to administer its own internal
affairs.

To utilize trained volunteers and staff who sign both a conflict of interest and con?dentiality statement in
matters regarding the making of Community Investment funding decisions.

Conditions

The Grant Is made. and all proceeds of the Grant must be used. in accordance with all applicable procedures.
including. without limitation: the following stipulations. Please read the following carefully:

1.

Type of Investment

This Grant is Issued through the Community Investment Fund. which allows for funding to an agency.
program. strategy or collaborative that addresses need to the community. The total amount of funding
available for each year of the grant cycle Is based on campaign collections from the year before and will be
approved by the UWSEM Board of Directors in the spring of each year.

Governance

Partner agrees to maintain a responsible governing board or local advisory group whose members serve
without pay. are representative of the community and meet at regular Intervals. lnforrnation regarding
governance and management of the organization (articles of incorporation, and written policies and
procedures) will be made available to UWSEM upon request. Partner agrees to offer opportunities for
participation in programs. services. policy formulation. and staff employment to persons without
discrimination based on race. religion. age. gender. economic status. weight. sex. cultural heritage. national
origin and disability.

Outcomes Based Funding

UWSEM's mission and business model re?ect a focus on measuring outcomes for funded programs and
strategies. Details regarding outcome alignment. revisions of outcomes. indicators and related data. and
use of on-Iine data reporting tools are outlined In Appendix C: Reporting and Evaluation. Specific outcomes
for this Grant are available in Appendix A: Speci?c Outcomes and Deliverabtes and Appendix 8: Additional
Expectations for Partner.

Financial Reporting Requirements

Partner agrees to keep comprehensive and accurate ?nancial records that conform to basic accounting and
?nancial reporting requirements and to have these records audited annually by an Independent auditing ?rm.
Three different levels of requirements have been established that are based on the Partner's overall budget.
Details regarding these requirements are outlined in Appendix D: Financial Reporting Requirements. and
Appendix E: Financial Review and Audit Policy.

United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Grant Agreement

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

5. Publicity and Marketing
Marketing
- All printed promotional materials including but not limited to brochures. programs. newsletters.
press releases. educational materials and announcements, which reference the funded program(s)
must include mention of United Way for Southeastern Michigan as a funder.

. The use of the brand name United Way for Southeastern Michigan via digital (Le. website. biogs.
electronically distributed releases and social media) must hyperlink back to the website.


- Prior approval is required by United Way to develop branding campaigns that promote any funded-
program.

- A United Way-branded decal should be prominently placed in the designated space of the funded
program. The decal will be mailed to your organization.

0 Should you have questions please send an email to 

Publlg Rglg?g?g

All media?related communication that recognizes other funding sources must also recognize United
Way for Southeastern Michigan as a funding source.

0 Acknowledgement of the funded partnership may be facilitated with the use of a credit line or
United Way logo. (Logos may not be altered.) Sample Credit Line: "(Name of program) is made
possible with grant funding from United Way for Southeastern Michigan. 

For questions. contact United Way Director of Public Relations Vickie Winn at
Vickie.mn@iiveoniiedsamore

mama
. United Way should be tagged in any mention of United Way-funded programs via social media (FE.
Twitter. etc.) using the following social media handles:

Facebook: United Way for Southeastern Michigan Twitter: @UnitedWaySEM
Linkedln: United Way for Southeastern Michigan Instagram: @UnitedWaySEM

- To uplift the partnership via social media. please share your social media handles and relevant
hashtags with United Way.

- For questions. contact United Way Manager of Social Media Jessica Page-Carreras at


B. Crediting United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Acknowledgement of the United Way partnership may be facilitated by using the United Way for Southeastern
Michigan logo and/or credit line.
. The logos provided to you must be produced as a unit without alteration.
. In addition to the use of the United Way for Southeastern Michigan logo. funding recipients may also use
the following line of text (or reasonably similar wording) to credit United Way: "This program is supported
in part by a grant li'orn United Way for Southeastern Michigan."

7. Standards of Eligibility
All partners must adhere to the standards outlined in Appendix M: Standards of Eligibility. If Partner
experiences a change and is no longer compliant with the Standards of Eligibility. it is Partner's
responsibility to notify UWSEM with both information on the standards no longer being met and the plan to
return Partner to compliance.

8. Counterterrorism

United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Grant Agreement

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

The Partner agrees to adhere to the standards outlined in Appendix F: Counterterrorlsm Compliance.

Payment Terms

Payment schedules and requirements are available in Appendix K: Payment Schedule. Payment schedules
and requirements for donor designated funds are available in Appendix J: Designation Guidelines. UWSEM
reserves the right to withhold the distribution of funds due to programmatic or ?nancial impropriety or failure
to comply with the terms of this Grant Agreement until the issue(s) is resolved to the satisfaction of UWSEM.

Termination Options
UWSEM reserves the right to terminate this Grant Agreement at any time in the event that UWSEM
determines that the Partner has not performed In accordance with this Grant Agreement or satisfied the
specific contingencies of the approved program (see Appendix H: Change in Funding Status). including in
the event that. based on UWSEM's determination. in its sole discretion, that:

- 501 Partner loses its exemption from federal income taxation under Section

501(c)(3) of the internal Revenue Code of 1986. as amended.
. Partner is non-compliant with any federal. state and local laws or regulations, or
- Partner ceases program operations.

Partner may terminate this Grant Agreement by providing reasonable notice of their intent and rationale for
doing so to UWSEM staff in writing.

In the event of a termination of this Grant Agreement. any funds that have not yet been paid to the partner
will be immediately forfeited.

Severabllity and Governing Law

In the event that any provision or any part of a provision of this Grant Agreement is finally determined to be
superseded. invalid. illegal or otherwise unenforceable pursuant to applicable laws by an authority having
jurisdiction. such a determination shall not affect the legality or enforceability of the remaining provisions or
parts of provisions. which shall remain in full force an defect as if the unenforceable provision or part were
deleted. This Grant Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Michigan.

Indemni?cation To the extent pannitted by law. Partner hereby agrees to indemnify. defend and hold
harmless UWSEM. its trustees. officers. and employees. from and against. and in respect to. any and all
losses. expenses. demands. costs. obligations. liabilities and damages. including interest. penalties and
reasonable attorney's fees and expenses. that may be incurred by UWSEM as a result of any negligent or
willful acts or omissions of Partner or any of its agents or employees.

Scope of Work Changes

In the event that the Partner deems a change necessary to the requirements as set forth in Appendix A:
Speci?c Outcomes and Deliverables (the ?Scope of Work"). the Partner will consult with UWSEM regarding
these changes in advance. Any proposed changes will be assessed to determine the reasonis) behind the
need for a change and the potential impact to the project. No change to the Scope ofWork will be made
without explicit written consent from UWSEM in the form of an amendment to this Grant Agreement.

Change Requests

UWSEM reserves the right to request any changes to the requirements and speci?cations of this Grant
Agreement and the Scope of Work to be performed by the Partner under this Grant Agreement. During the
course of ordinary business. it may become necessary for UWSEM to discontinue certain business
practices or create additional servicesfdellverables covered by this Grant Agreement.

United Way for Southeastern Michigan United 

Grant Agreement

15.

16.

17.

18.

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

Ownership of Deliverabies and Data

All deliverables created by Partner and delivered to in connection with this Grant Agreement (the
?Bettye-rabies?) shall be owned by UWSEM and shall be considered works made for hire by the Partner for
UWSEM under United States Copyright law. UWSEM shall own all United States and international
copyrights, trademarks, patents or other proprietary rights In the Detiverables. All data submitted to
UWSEM in connection with this Grant Agreement (the ?Data?) is considered property of UWSEM.

Individual client con?dentiality is protected and UWSEM will never disclose a clients? name or photo without
prior consent and approval. Partner shail. in a timely manner. secure such consent and approval upon
UWSEM's request. Partner agrees to execute and deliver any additional documents reasonably required
to effectuate the intent of the parties with respect to the ownership of the Deliverables and/or the Data upon
request.

Acceptance of Grant
Signing this Grant Agreement indicates Partner's acknowledgement and acceptance of the terms outlined
above and in all appendices.

Counterparts

This Grant Agreement may be executed simultaneously in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an
original. but all of which together shall constitute one and the same in addition, signatures
transmitted by facsimile or other electronic means shalt be deemed the same as originals and shall be
effective upon receipt.

UWSEM contact
Any noti?cations related to this Grant Agreement sh0uld be sent in writing to the following:

Contract Administration:

Jessica Stone

Director. Budgeting and Financial Compliance
United Way for Southeastern Michigan

3011 W. Grand Blvd., Suite 500

Detroit. MI 48202


Administration 
Sara Gold

Director. Healthy Kids and Basic Needs
3011 W. Grand Blvd., Suite 500
Detroit. Mi 48202
Sara.Gold@liveunitedsem.org

[slg nature page attached]

United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Grant Agreement

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

As evidence of the Parties' mutual understanding of and agreement with the terms herein. they have signed
this Grant Agreement as of the Issue Date of the Grant set forth above.

UNITED WAY FOR SOUTHEASTERN MICHIGAN

By: Date:
Name:
Title:

CITY OF DETROIT PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT

By: Date:
Name:
Title:

United Way for Southeastern Michigan
Grant Agreement

 

United Way
for Southeastern Michigan

Appendix A: Speci?c Outcomes and Deliverables

The City of Detroit Parks Recreation Department will use grant funds for the Summer Meal program being
offered their community. The integration of tasting stations into recreation centers' MUEU sites will allow for the
expansion of the Summer Food Service Program. The Eastern Market will conduct survey work to understand
youth opinions and eating behaviors. Surveys will be collected before testing stations occur and after the
completion of the tasting station series. Surveys will be collected at recreation centers where tasting stations will
not occur. Data will be compared between sites that receive tasting stations with sites that do not receive tasting
stations). Tasting Stations will engage children in the preparation of food and allow for active engagement with
youth. Tasting stations will assist with menu development for the SFSP. Having positively reviewed menu options
will increase meal consumption of summer meals by youth. The funds will be used as follows:

 

Outcome
Develop a replicable strategy to improve staff quality through hiring practices. training. or
other innovative approaches

 

 

Explore methods to serve more children in MUEU and additional programs throughout the
year
Promote positive feeding environments in MUEU and other Child Nutrition Programs

 

 

 

 

Conduct research and collect data in the ?eld on topics that impact participation in MUEU

 

Appendix 8: Additional Expectations for Partner

Data Collection: United Way for Southeastern Michigan will be collecting information through Apricot for Funders
on outputs and budget.

. Reggning
During the grant period. partner will:
Participate in all conference calls and cohort convenings as scheduled by UWSEM.
Provide a mid-term budget update of funds spent as of July 1. 2019.

At the end of the grant period. partner will provide UWSEM with a final report which shall include:

0

A narrative that details the impact these funds have had on your Meet Up and eat Up program.
Outline of the strategy implemented with grant funding, including changes made throughout the
summer to overcome dif?culties.

Actual Number of breakfast meals served

Actual Number of lunch meals served.

Actual Number of sites supported.

Actual number of days enrichment was provided.

Actual Number of interactions with children at MUEU sites.

A final itemized budget of funds spent.

0

000000

. Final re?rt due ?egtember 3t], 201g

All information and reports requested must be provided to UWSEM by the dates Speci?ed. Failure to
provide timeiy information may result in payments being held (see Appendix for more information).

(City of Benoit
CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL BRENDA JONES
0 RA 

TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
Law Department

CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk

FROM: Council President Brenda Jones
DATE: June 25, 2019
RE: Senior Citizens Recreation Fee

 

Please draft an ordinance exempting Senior Citizens from paying a fee to utilize recreation
centers, services, or classes.



