

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

$l

Testimonial Resolution for Secondary Street Name in Honor of $782.. Q2. 9E

91% Wintersection of Plymouth Road and Southfield Fwy. Service Drive
Submitted by Councilman Gabe Leland

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

05.21.19 -tcb

Rev. Dr. Everett N. Jennings, Sr. has been bestowed a high honor of having the intersection of
Plymouth Road and Southfield Freeway Service Drive named as a secondary street. This
dedication is historic and such a momentous occasion as we celebrate on behalf of New
Providence Baptist Church; and

Rev. Dr. Jennings Sr. has served admirably for 31 years as the pastor of New Providence
Baptist Church, which is located at the intersection of Plymouth Road and Southfield
Freeway Service Drive and is historically a significant milestone being the location of the
ministry for any good works carried out under his leadership; and

Dr. E. N. Jennings, Sr. has gone above and beyond what is expected by partnering with the
Detroit Public Schools Community District to provide a location for the Detroit Innovation
Academy K-8 School. For feeding the hungry, clothing the naked and providing shelter to those
in need is a part of a church?s mandate; and

Dr. E. N. Jennings, Sr. has been a leader to thousands of lives of residents within the City of Detroit
have been touched through his personal giving as well as that of his congregation, whom on a 
bases contribute to Alternative for Girls, American Heart Association, Angel House, Autism Speaks,
Black Family Development, Bridges to Hope Program, Capuchin Kitchen, Children?s Hospital of
Michigan, COTS, Covenant House, Detroit Rescue Mission, Department of Human Services, Focus
HOPE, Forgotten Harvest, The Guidance Center, Habitat for Humanity, Harford Rehabilitation Center,
Henry Ford Village Nursing Home, Mariners Inn, Matrix Human Services, New Day Mission, Operation
Get Down, Ronald McDonald House, Salvation Army, Sound Mind Sound Body (Youth Football),
Starfish Youth Shelter and Turning Point Agency West Wayne Family Services. NOW THEREFORE

BE IT

That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members of the Detroit City Council share in this historic
milestone for Dr. E. N. Jennings, Sr., Pastor of New Providence Baptist Church in the celebration
of his noteworthy achievements as the intersection of Plymouth Road and Southfield Freeway

Service Drive be assigned the secondary street name W:

May 26, 2019



Testimonial Resolution b1 Memonam for 9m November 30, 1.923 - May 7, 2019
Submitted by Councilman Gabe Leland

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

05.20.19 

Willie Turner, Jr. was born to the late Willie Turner, Sr. and Ella Hicks in Midville, Georgia, and was the
second child born to this union. Willie was also preceded by both his siblings in death, his older brother
Charles Corker and his younger sister, Ruby Harmon-Harris; and

Willie was affectionately known as Son, Slim, or Turner depending on the company he was in. In 1940,
with just $10 to his name, Willie joined the Great Migration and left Georgia headed to Detroit, MI. Willie
landed on the doorstep of a boarding house on Detroit?s eastside; in the renowned community, Black
Bottom. After settling in Detroit, Willie worked various jobs to make ends meet. He landed employment
as a welder with Kelsey-Hayes, Massey Ferguson, and ?nally, Ford Motor Company. He retired from Ford
after 25 years of service in 1997. He never missed a single day?s work in 25 years. Willie was a recipient
of Ford?s Perfect Attendance Award; and

Willie met the love of his life, Dorothy Bagwell, while visiting friends in Ferndale, MI. Willie loved and
adored Dorothy and they were wed in holy matrimony on October 23, 1954. They were married for 51
years until her death in July 2005. To this union two sons were born, Marcus and Darryl. Willie and
Dorothy were loving parents and provided a warm and loving home for their children. The Turner home
was one of the staples of the Collingwood community. Willie and Dorothy joined Detroit?s Oak Grove
AME Church in 1955 and attended regularly until health impeded their ability to worship; and

Willie had an entrepreneurial spirit. In 1962, using his own muscle and grit, he built and operated his own
gas station. The station was located in Sumpter Township, at the corner of Sumpter and Oakville Waltz
Roads. This was a signi?cant accomplishment for a black man with limited ?nancial means, but plenty of

determination; and

Willie made his transition on Tuesday, May 7, 2019, peacefully at Cedar Woods Assisted Living facility in
Belleville, MI, near his beloved family. He leaves to cherish his memory, his beloved sons Marcus (Angela)
and Darryl; grandchildren Marcal, Mia, Mycah, Jesia, Devon and Ladonna; great granddaughter Tayla, a
special niece Marjorie Stevens and his Collingwood Family. NOW THEREFORE, LET IT BE

That Councilman Gabe Leland and Members of Detroit City Council hereby join family and friends in
celebrating the life and legacy of Willie Turner, Jr. May the memories of his love, faith, and hard work be
cherished always and continue to ?ll the hearts of his many love ones.

MAY 21. ZIJIH

