VOTE

 

la/ll/IOI

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
I O/gi at I 017/ 9+

GREATER ST. PAUL BAPTIST CHURCH

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

L1

 
 
   

40TH Church Anniversary

With humble beginnings and a deeply rooted commitment to grqip?fing the body of Christ,
Greater St. Paul Baptist Church IS celebrating 40 years of service in the City of Detroit; and

Greater St. Paul Baptist Church started as a vision given to Reverend Ricardo Bartlett, Sr. and
was launched in 1979. The ?rst charter members included families such as: the Bartletts, Burns,
Harris, Howze and Means. The ?rst service was of?cially conducted on Sunday, February 19,
1979 at 2431 East Grand Boulevard in Detroit; and

Greater St. Paul Baptist Church by September 1979 under the leadership of Pastor Bartlett the
church raised over sixty?five thousand dollars and purchased 7203 East Harper in Detroit. More
blessings were poured over the congregation as the church started ministering to the Harper-
Frontenac community. They started outreach projects such as the Senior Citizens Meal Program,
a Food Co-op, a Senior Citizens Recreational Program, Youth-Oriented ministries, a Radio
Broadcast, and a Community Fun Festival and Carnival; and

Greater St. Paul Church grew spiritually and in membership. On Sunday, November 11, 1984 the
congregation was led to their new church home at 17300 Chandler Park Drive where the ministry
continued. Currently the church is located at 15325 Gratiot Avenue. They have been there since
Sunday, May 2, 1999. Their membership increased to over one thousand faithful citizens; and

Greater St. Paul Church under the leadership of Reverend Ricardo Bartlett, Sr. created ministries
to address the needs of the community and congregation while located on Gratiot Avenue. They
have Christian Education, a Child Development Center for ages six weeks to 5 years, Michigan
School Readiness for four year olds, a Radio Broadcast, Tutoring services, Youth Ministry,
Giving Tree, Foreign Missions for Africa, Macomb Montessori Academy, and Substance Abuse
and Crisis Management; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council congratulates Greater
St. Paul Baptist Church on your 40th Church Anniversary. May God continue to bless your
endeavors as you work to grow the body of Christ.

?auL

COUNOLMEMBER

 

 

   

 

MEMBER

 

COUN

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

k(3 CyriasaKM/tmn

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

Douglas J. Diggs

In Memoriam


Douglas Jackson Diggs was born in Detroit in 1964 to Anna Di state?s ?rst African
American female federal judge, and Charles C. Diggs Jr., who became the ?rst African American
elected to Congress from Michigan. His stepfather, S. Martin Taylor, former head of New Detroit
and later, Vice President at DTE Energy was a prominent and caring ?gure in his life. Diggs credits
all his parents for his work ethic and his sense of civic responsibility that became his way of life;
and

Douglas Diggs graduated from the University of Detroit High School and Wayne State University.
He also received his Masters of Business Administration from Davenport University. Throughout
his career he was focused on growing the economy of Detroit. He served as Detroit?s Planning and
Development Director and was Director of Business and Economic Development for Detroit
Renaissance; and

Douglas Diggs was the catalyst for a variety of programs to boost minority business development
in the City including the Detroit Community Loan Fund, Michigan Statewide Minority Business
Development Center and the Detroit Entrepreneurship Institute. Most recently, he was responsible
for creating and implementing the Business and Workforce Participation and Outreach Plan for the
Little Caesars Arena and The District Detroit to ensure that Detroit businesses and residents
participate in the construction of the project; and

Douglas Diggs was the President and CEO of the Diggs Group Heritage developed and
implemented numerous economic development projects in the city. More important to him was the
work he did to create workforce opportunities for Detroit residents. He loved Detroit and saw it as
his mission to create opportunities for minority businesses to engage and thrive in the city?s growth;

and

Douglas Diggs was a devoted husband and father. He married the love of his life Dr. Shauna Ryder
Diggs. This union was blessed with two daughters; Jaqueline Exyie Diggs and Alexandra Anna
Diggs; THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their deepest
condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Douglas J. Diggs. Your loss
is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you during this time and always.

couscnt an yaw, 

 

LIFE, COUN IL MEMBER


 

 

 

 

 

 

NJ . . . - cou ILMEMBEH
if" - 
(3:le I H. COUNCILME 
CMCEBEFI NEILMEMB 
May 25, 19

 

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

. I

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

?de?a?m:
Eastside Church of God

?1 00th Year Celebration. 

On the ?rst Sunday in June 1919, the ?rst service for EASTSIDE Church Of God was held in a small
storefront at the corner of Clinton and Rivard street. in Detroit, Michigan. Membership consisted of Elder and
Sister Theophlis Dickerson McGhee. their daughter Emma, the Reverends J.Z. and Minnie Stewart, Brother
and Sister Bruce Davis {The Original seven); AND

In four and one-half years, the Lord added to the church and a larger building would be needed. In 1924,
EASTSIDE Church Of God moved to the comer of Mullet and Orleans, where many souls found the Lord.
Children were born to families, grew up, and found their mates and married there. Far as it is known, Sister
Marion K. Lane is the only remaining member from this location on Mullett and Orleans St. The other two
members were Sister Janie Hair and Sister Lucille Kelly, who have gone on to be with Lord; AND

In 1929-1930, there was a great depression in the land; during this time, the church grew stronger in the faith.
Unable to depend on possessions, EASTSIDE Church Of God stood ?rm. As the neighborhood
began to change, and many of the Saints moved away. The Church also moved and found a new home at Jos
Campus and Gratiot Avenue. On March 9, 1935, the church paid off the $25,000.00 mortgage which included
a parsonage and Janitor?s quarters; AND

Several Churches were born out of EASTSIDE Church Of God; Elder John Gilbert, birthed Church of Christ
Holiness, Elder Glover and Elder Aikens birthed churches. Elder Mosely formed Grace Chapel, Elder Hezekiah
Burruss from Atlanta established Mount Moriah Church of God Holiness. Elder Samuel Randle and his wife
Sister Ef?e Randlc birthed Northwest Church of God; Bishop T.D. McGhee was very liberal and productive in
helping to establish churches in Michigan(Pontiac, Flint, Ypsilanti, and Romeo); AND

Bishop T.D. McGhee was an outstanding eloquent speaker and Leader. He had an extraordinary talent for
making everyone feel necessary in the proclamation of" Jesus Christ to the world. Bishop TJ). MeGhee was a
humble, devout 'l'eaeher and Preacher in the Church oFGod Sancti?ed, Incorporated. lle remained Pastor for 46
years until his passing in 1%6. After his passing. the Lord blessed EASTSIDE Church Of God with Bishop
William Kieth Lane, Sr. who was very appreciative of his humble beginnings and always strived to maintain
the high standards already established. Bishop William K. Lane, Sr. pastored the EASTSIDE Church Of
God for iill years and retired July of 2006. Alter his retirement, Elder Timothy R. Keene, Sr. became the
Pastor of EASTSIDE Church Of God. Elder Timothy R. Keene, Sr. is continuing the legacy "following in
the footsteps ofthese remarkable men oftiod." moving EASTSIDE Church Of God forward reaching the city,
the nation, and the world for God; NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and the entire Detroit City Council joins with

EASTSIDE Church Of God, in celebrating their 100th Church Anniversary. May God continue to
bless EASTSIDE Church Of God with many more years of Service to God?s people.

game?r
I 

   

I COUNCIL PM DENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

584455565429? .

Valerie Stevenson-Berry
Equal Employment Opportunity Officer USA CE, Detroit District

WHEREAS: Mrs. Valerie Stevenson -Berry worked for the US Government for thirty-nine years
beginning her federal career in December 1979, as a ?Stay?ln-School? Student Aide with the Internal
Revenue Service. Mrs. Stevenson-Berry joined the U.S. Army, Corps of Engineers, Detroit District, as a File
Clerk in January 1986. in June of 1986, she joined the District?s Real Estate Division. In August 2003, she
changed career paths and accepted the position of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Of?cer retiring on
May31, 20l9; AND

WHEREAS: Mrs. Valerie Stevenson-Berry, as EEO Of?cer, served as the principal Civilian EEO
adviser to the District Commander, and was delegated authority to act as the sole agent on behalf of the
Secretary of the Army, in processing discrimination complaints under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the
Age Discrimination in Employment Act and other employment anti-discrimination statues. Mrs. Stevenson-
Berry holds Department of the Army (DA) certi?cations as an EEO Counselor, and DA Mediator, and has
provided these services for other districts and agencies as well; AND

WHEREAS: During her time with the Detroit District Mrs. Stevenson-Berry?s most notable
achievements included Letters of Appreciation from Lieutenant General Bostick, and Brigadier General Kaiser
(2015); the USACE. Chief of Engineers EEO Award (2015): the Secretary of the Army?s Diversity and
Leadership Award (EEO Professional) (2015): and the USAGE Of?ce of the Diversity and Leadership Best
District for Traditional Counseling (20 AND

WHEREAS: Mrs. Valerie Stevenson-Berry is a product ol?the Detroit Public School system, attended
Mackenzie High School and completed her education at Detroit College of Business. in her Spare time, Mrs.
Stevenson-Benji serves as Vice President on the Board of Directors, for the New Hope Community
Development Non-Pro?t Housing Corporation in Detroit, Michigan. She is a long time member of Corpus
Christi Parish in Detroit, Michigan where she previously served as an assistant Youth Minister, and an
alternate on Parish Council. She currently serves on the Faith Formation Committee, an assistant Catechist for
First Reconciliation .iliirst Communion, Children?s Litur and as an EME. Mrs. Valerie Stevenson?Berty?s
interest includes youth and family related activities. Mrs. Stevenson?Berry is a native Detroiter, she is married
and has a son and daughter; NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

RESOLVED: That Councilman Roy MeCalister, Jr. and the entire Detroit City Council now extends its
heartfelt congratulations to Valerie Stevenson-Berry on her retirement after nearly 39 years of dedicated and
exemplary service to the City of Detroit. May God continue to bless you with success and prosperity.

?gs-J. Qm'h?
I, '1 course RESID
4  I

. F, 



 

 

   

 

 

