(City of ?etrnit
CITY COUNCIL

Councn. PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

June 4, 2019
Hello Detroit!

The Detroit City Council will hold the District 2 Evening Community Meeting on Tuesday, June 18,
2019 from 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM at GESU Catholic School located at 17139 Oak Dr. (Quincy Street
gymnasium entrance).

The District 2 Evening Community Meeting is focused on Health and Wellness. The following vendors
will be present to provide community resources and information: City of Detroit Health Department,
Temple I Am, Phlebotomy Express Training Center, National Alliance on Mental Illness, AETNA,
Beaumont Health, The Children Center and Commissioned Care Counseling.

The Detroit Water and Sewage Department will be present to discuss billing issues, payment plans
and other resident concerns. DTE Energy will be present to discuss tree trim concerns, 4.8 kv
hardening/reliability issues, safety around wire-down and billing issues. Representatives of City
departments will be present to note complaints and explain departmental plans and policies.

Citizens and community organizations have the opportunity to make known by phone, prior to the
meeting, their specific concerns, the addresses of problem locations, or other community-related
issues for inclusion on the meeting agenda. Individuals or groups can also request to have discussions
or hearings at the Evening Community Meeting on issues related to their neighborhoods. Requests for
discussions or hearings should be made via phone by Friday, June 14th to the Legislative Policy Division
(LPD) staff at, (313) 224-4946.

Also, interpreters for hearing-impaired residents may be present, if requested at least 48 business
hours in advance. To make a request, contact the Department of Civil Rights, inclusion 8: Opportunity
at 224-9516.

Please note, in order to better ensure the safety of all participants, the Executive Protection Unit of
the Detroit Police Department will conduct security screenings of all persons attending the
meeting.

The City Council looks forward to this meeting and hopes that you and other members of your
community will be able to attend.

Sincerely yours,

Brenda Jones, j?oy acCalister, 

Detroit City Council President Council Member, District 2

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite I340 Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 2244095

I ?all!

