NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMANA YOUNG MIENICIPAL CENTER
2 WoonwARo AVENUE, sum: 1026
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48210

CITY or DEruoir . .- PHONE: 3 l3 . 628-2 I 58
OFFICE OF THE CHIEFFINANCIAL UH ICER 3'3 . 314 . 054')
.. OFFICE or AND GRANTS ww? .0ch om 1mm
April '29. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the Strategic Neighborhood Fund
Agreement to Sopport the Revitalization of Certain Parks

The Invest Detroit Foundation has applied for and been awarded, or expects to be
awarded. grants in a cumulative amount of $56.000.000.00 from various corporations
and foundations for the Strategic Neighborhood Fund. of which up to $14.000.000.00 is
budgeted for the purpose of improving catalytic parks and greenways within the Strategic
Neighborhood Fund neighborhoods. Invest Detroit has also been awarded Civic
Commons grant as part of the Strategic Neighborhood Fund initiative in Livernois-
McNichols, up to $400,000.00 of which is budgeted for catalytic park and greenway
improvements in that neighborhood.

Invest Detroit has agreed to act as ?scal sponsor for these funds on behalf of the City of
Detroit General Services Department. and will reimburse the City's costs and expenses
for these improvements on a project-by-project basis.

The objective of this agreement is to revitalize certain parks and greenways as part of
the Strategic Neighborhood Fund Initiative. The funding allotted to the department will
be utilized to improve multiple parks and greenways throughout the City of Detroit;
improvements to each park or greenway will be governed by an individual project scope
and budget. This is a reimbursement agreement.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation
number is 20656.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance

with Ettached resolution.
Sinc rely.

Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

This request has been approved by the Law Department
This request has been approved by the Office of Budget

g?

Office of Development and Grants mmorr

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

 

WHEREAS, the General Services Department is requesting authorization to accept a
reimbursement agreement from Invest Detroit. in the amount of $14.400.000.00. to revitalize
certain parks and greenways as part of the Strategic Neighborhood Fund Initiative; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Law Department; and

WHEREAS, this request has been approved by the Office of Budget; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the reimbursement agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Budget Director is authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20656. and appropriate these funds up to the amount of $14,400,000.00 on a project-by
project basis. for the Strategic Neighborhood Fund Parks Revitalization Agreement.

Page 1 of 1

STRATEGIC NEIGHBORHOOD FUND PARKS REVITALIZATION
FISCAL SPEONSORSHIP AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF DETROIT
AND
INVEST DETROIT FOUNDATION

This Fiscal Sponsorship Agreement (?Agreement?) is entered into by and between INVEST
DETROIT FOUNDATION, a Michigan non-profit corporation, located at 600 Renaissance
Center, Suite 1710, Detroit, Michigan 48243 and THE CITY OF
DETROIT, a Michigan municipal corporation acting though its General Services Department,
located at 18100 Meyers Rd, Detroit, Michigan 48235 for the purpose of establishing
INVEST DETROIT as the ?scal sponsor for certain funding to support the revitalization
of certain parks as part of its strategic neighborhood fund initiative (?Project?). INVEST
DETROIT and the CITY may each be referred to herein as a ?Party? or collectively as the ?Parties?
to this Agreement, as applicable.

RECITALS:

Whereas, the CITY and INVEST DETROIT have established a Strategic Neighborhood Fund
which is intended to spur economic development through layered improvements of parks
and other open spaces, strengthening commercial corridors including streetscape improvements
and investment in mixed-use multifamily development, and single family stabilization in multiple
selected neighborhoods in Detroit which are on the verge of growth; and

Whereas, INVEST DETROIT has applied for and has been awarded, or expects to be awarded,
certain grants (?Grants?) in a cumulative amount of up to Fifty-Six Million and 00/100 Dollars
from various corporations and foundations (collectively, the oundations?), of
which up to Fourteen Million and 00/ 100 Dollars is budgeted for the purpose of
supporting the Project; and

Whereas, INVEST DETROIT has been awarded funds for the Civic Commons Initiative in the
Livernois-McNichols neighborhood, which is also part of the Project, and desires to use a portion
of such funds up to an amount of Four Hundred Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars for
the purpose of supporting the Project; and

Whereas, the $14,000,000.00 in funding from the Foundations and the $400,000.00 in Civic
Commons Initiative funding identi?ed herein may be collectively referred to as the ?Grant Funds?
for purposes of this Agreement; and

Whereas, the Project will include improvements to multiple parks and greenways throughout the
City of Detroit and improvements to each park or greenway (each an ?Individual Project?) will be
governed by an individual project scope and budget; and

Whereas, INVEST DETROIT desires to serve as the ?scal Sponsor of the Grant Funds for the
Project, which will include management of the Grant Funds; and

Whereas, INVEST DETROIT and the CITY desire to enter into this Agreement in order to set
forth each Party?s roles and responsibilities regarding the management of the Grant Funds in
support of the Project;

NOW THEREFORE, INVEST DETROIT and the CITY agree as follows:

Section 1: Fiscal Sponsorship. INVEST DETROIT shall serve as the ?scal sponsor for the
Project. In that capacity, INVEST DETROIT will (1) manage a segregated general ledger account
(?Account?) for the Grant Funds, (2) disburse Grant Funds from the Account to the CITY in
furtherance of the Project and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and (3) retain a
portion of the Grant Funds for administrative purposes in accordance with the agreements between
INVEST DETROIT and the Foundations governing the Grants.

Section 2: Fiscal Re5ponsibilities. INVEST DETROIT will notify and provide documentation to
the CITY of its receipt of all Grant Funds from the Foundations and deposit of such Grant Funds
into the Account. INVEST DETROIT will guarantee the availability of ?inds for each Individual
Project upon approval that such Individual Project is eligible for reimbursement in accordance
with the terms of Section 4, herein. Any failure by INVEST DETROIT to guarantee the availability
of funding for Individual Projects constitutes a material breach of this Agreement. Throughout the
Term of this Agreement, INVEST DETROIT will provide regular reports to the CITY as to its
management of the Grant Funds and current balances in the Account.

Section 3: Project Management. The CITY will serve as the general project manager for the
Project. The Parties acknowledge that the Project will include the improvements to multiple parks
and greenways throughout the City of Detroit. For each Individual Project the CITY will (1)
establish general goals, objectives, and priorities for the Individual Project, (2) delineate the scope
of the Individual Project, (3) develop a budget for the Individual Project, (4) manage
implementation of the Individual Project, including identi?cation of speci?c activities to be
undertaken within the Individual Project scope and key milestones for such activities, and (5)
solicit, select, and engage all contractors, consultants and other third-party vendors (?Vendors?)
for the Individual Project and oversee the day-to-day activities of all such Vendors.

The CITY understands and acknowledges that no such Vendors may be considered third-party
bene?ciaries to this Agreement and that INVEST DETROIT will not have any privity of contract
with or obligations to any Vendors. INVEST DETROIT understands and acknowledges that the
CITY will have sole discretion, in accordance with its own standards and procedures, to solicit,
select, engage, and oversee all Vendors, including sole discretion to negotiate the pricing and
schedules for payment to Vendors and to determine whether any Vendor has failed to adequately
perform in accordance with its contract. Within that discretion, the CITY may from time to time
keep INVEST DETROIT apprised of its project management of the Project to enable INVEST
DETROIT to tailor its ?scal sponsorship activities accordingly

Section 4: Disbursement of Grant Funds. Grant Funds will be disbursed by INVEST DETROIT
to the CITY as reimbursement for the costs and expenses on an Individual Project?by-
Project basis. For each Individual Project, the CITY will submit such Individual Project?s scope,
speci?c activities, key milestones, and budget to INVEST DETROIT. Upon receipt of such
information, INVEST DETROIT must review the Individual Project for consistency with
the applicable terms and conditions of the Grants, as well as consistency with the purpose of the
Project and, if consistent, approve such project as eligible for reimbursement. If INVEST
DETROIT reasonably determines that the Individual Project is not consistent with the applicable
terms and conditions of the Grants or the purpose of the Project, it shall notify the CITY
of the specific points of inconsistency and collaborate with the CITY to resolve such
inconsistencies as quickly as mutually possible, such that INVEST DETROIT can then approve
Individual Project as eligible for reimbursement. Any signi?cant change to an approved Individual
Project?s scepe, speci?c activities, key milestones, or budget is subject to additional review and
approval by INVEST DETROIT according to the same process as applicable to the approval of a
new Individual Project. Any increase of a budget line item of 5% or more will constitute a
signi?cant change to the budget.

INVEST DETROIT shall create and maintain a written register (?Register?), which must make
express reference to this Agreement and must identify all Individual Projects that have been
approved as eligible for reimbursement under this Agreement and set forth the scope, speci?c
activities, key milestones, and budget associated with each such Individual Project. Upon approval
by INVEST DETROIT of a new Individual Project or revision of the associated information for
an existing Individual Project, INVEST DETROIT shall update the Register accordingly. The
Register is hereby incorporated into this Agreement by reference; however, any revision of the
Register will not constitute an amendment of this Agreement subject to Section 13, herein.
INVEST DETROIT shall provide the CITY with a copy of the Register upon request by
the CITY.

For any approved Individual Project, INVEST DETROIT must disburse the Grant Funds to the
CITY as reimbursement for the costs and expenses associated with the Individual Project,
including payments to all Vendors. Immediately upon the incurrence of a monetary
obligation to compensate a Vendor for such Vendor?s work in furtherance of the Project, the CITY
may invoice INVEST DETROIT for reimbursement up to the full amount of such monetary
obligation. Within thirty (30) days following the date of such invoice, INVEST DETROIT shall
provide reimbursement by way of payment to the CITY from the Account in the amount identi?ed
on the invoice. INVEST DETROIT must not disburse or otherwise obligate Grant Funds in any
amount that exceeds the existing balance of Grant Funds in the Account. Overdrafts of the Account
are at INVEST sole risk and expense. INVEST DETROIT must not disburse or
otherwise obligate any Grant Funds that have been allocated to any Individual Project that has
been approved as eligible for reimbursement in accordance with the terms of this Section of this
Agreement to any third party other than the CITY without prior written approval by the CITY and
is solely responsible for all disbursements or obligations that may be made to any such third-party,
with the exception of disbursements necessitated by INVEST ?duciary obligations
to the Foundations, as such obligations are established in the terms and conditions of the Grants.
INVEST obligation to provide reimbursement to the CITY is limited solely by the
cumulative amount of the Grant Funds, less the amount retained by INVEST DETROIT as

reasonable compensation for its ?scal sponsorship activities, as set forth in Section 1, herein of
this Agreement.

Section 5: Meetings. The Parties will meet at their mutual convenience, whether in person or via
video conference, telephone, or other convenient means on a periodic basis to review the progress
of each Party?s activities under this Agreement, to coordinate further activities as may be necessary
in furtherance of the purpose of this Agreement, and to discuss other relevant issues that may arise
from time to time.

Section 6: Recordkeeping and Reporting. Each Party will maintain, and the CITY will request
that its Vendors maintain, information pertinent to its activities under this Agreement for at least
four (4) years following the conclusion or earlier termination of this Agreement, but in no case for
less time than may be required to maintain compliance with Applicable Laws (as de?ned below).

Section 7: Insurance. INVEST DETROIT will obtain at its sole cost and maintain during the
entire Term of this Agreement ?delity bonds or other similar dishonesty insurance protection in
an amount not less than the total amount budgeted for any single Individual Project that is approved
as eligible for reimbursement under Section 4 of this Agreement, naming the CITY as the insured
and covering losses the CITY may incur as the result of fraudulent of dishonest acts by INVEST
DETROIT's employees, agents, or contractors.

Section 8: Compliance with Laws. Each Party acknowledges that it is individually responsible
for maintaining compliance in all respects with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules,
regulations, and orders having the binding effect of law (collectively, ?Applicable Laws?). Neither
Party will be responsible for ensuring the other Party?s compliance with Applicable Laws at any
time, unless so required under Applicable Laws.

Section 9: Non-Discrimination. The Parties will, in performing its respective activities set forth
herein, refrain from refusing, restricting, withholding, or denying any accommodations, services,
privileges, advantages or facilities or otherwise discriminating, whether directly or indirectly, on
the basis of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religious beliefs or practices, age, disability,
pregnancy, marital status, parental status, military status, employment or educational status,
gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other protected classi?cation,
in accordance with Chapter 27 of the Detroit City Code and other Applicable Laws.

Section 10: Accordance with Tax-Exemption. The Parties understand that INVEST DETROIT
is incorporated as a nonpro?t corporation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (?Section The Parties will use best efforts to perform all activities
as part of the Project in accordance with INVEST nonpro?t status and to refrain from
any activities that could foreseeably jeopardize such status, including but not limited to efforts to
in?uence legislation or participate or intervene in any political campaign on behalf of or in
opposition to any candidate for public of?ce or otherwise engage in the carrying on of propaganda,
within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3). In the event that INVEST DETROIT determines, in its
sole but reasonable discretion, that the Project or any Project activities could foreseeably
jeopardize its tax-exempt status, it may terminate this Agreement immediately and wind down the
activities hereunder as contemplated by Section 12 of this Agreement; provided, that INVEST

DETROIT will notify the CITY and the Foundations of such termination in writing and otherwise
comply with the applicable provisions of Section 12 of this Agreement.

Section 11: Avoidance of Con?icts. Neither Party presently has any interest, direct or indirect,
and does not intend during the Term (as de?ned below) of this Agreement to acquire any such
interest or employ any person having any such interest, which would con?ict in any manner or
degree with the performance of this Agreement.

Section 12: Effective Date, Term, and Termination. This Agreement is effective upon its
execution by an authorized representative of each of the Parties, approval by the City of Detroit
Law Department and Purchasing Director, and adoption by resolution of the Detroit City Council,
approved by the Mayor of the City of Detroit, in accordance with the terms of the 2012 City Charter
(?Effective Date?). This Agreement will be effective for a term commencing on the Effective Date
and continuing until the later of the term of the Grants, or two (2) years, and will remain in
effect until the expiration of the later of and above (the ?Term?), unless earlier terminated
as set forth in this Agreement.

This Agreement can be terminated for cause by either Party upon a finding of material breach and
failure to cure such breach by the other Party. If a Party determines that the other Party is in
material breach of this Agreement, it may provide written notice of such determination that other
Party. The breaching Party will have thirty (30) days after such written notice to cure the breach.
If the breaching Party fails to timely cure, the Party not in breech may terminate this Agreement,
effective fifteen (15) days after giving notice of termination to the breaching Party. This
Agreement can be terminated without cause by mutual agreement of the Parties. Such mutual
agreement must be in writing and executed by both Parties, and is effective ?fteen (15) days
following the date of its execution by both Parties.

Upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement, each Party will wind down its activities
under this Agreement so as to reasonably minimize the inconvenience to the other Party. Among
other wind down activities, the CITY will provide to INVEST DETROIT final invoicing for all
reimbursable obligations and INVEST DETROIT will provide a final accounting of its fiscal
Sponsorship activities to the CITY. The Parties understand and agree that, upon expiration or
termination of this Agreement, the CITY has no obligation to terminate or otherwise wind down
its contracts with any Vendor; however, monetary obligations of the CITY to the Vendor incurred
after the date of expiration or termination of this Agreement are not eligible for reimbursement
under this Agreement.

Section 13: Amendments. No amendment to this Agreement will be effective unless it is in
writing, expressly references this Agreement, is executed by a duly authorized representative of
each Party and is approved in accordance with the procedure for approval of this Agreement.

Section 14: Notices. Notices, requests, noti?cations, and other communications (collectively,
?Notices?) related to this Agreement by either Party will be given in writing, signed by an
authorized representative of the Party, and hand delivered, mailed by first-class mail or by
overnight courier, or emailed with receipt confirmation enabled, and addressed as follows:

If to INVEST DETROIT: Invest Detroit Foundation
600 Renaissance Center, Suite 1710
Detroit, Michigan 48243-1802
Attention: Carrie Lewand-Monroe
Email: 

If to the CITY: City of Detroit General Services Department
2 Woodward, Suite 808
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Attention: Jan Anderson
Email: jan@detroitmi.gov

Section 15: Miscellaneous Terms.

A. Independent Parties. Each Party acknowledges that INVEST DETROIT and the CITY
are independent of each other and do not intend, as a result of this Agreement or otherwise, to
become a joint venture, partners, employees, servants, agents, representatives, contractors, or any
type of related business entities to one another with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.

B. Assignment. This Agreement sets forth each Party?s intended activities in furtherance of
the purpose of this Agreement and neither Party intends to delegate or assign this Agreement, or
any portion of this Agreement, either voluntarily or involuntarily, or by operation of law, without
the prior written notice to the other Party.

C. Merger. This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between the Parties as to their
activities in the purpose of this Agreement and all prior discussions, negotiations, communications,
and understandings, whether written or verbal, are hereby merged into this Agreement.

D. Choice of Law and Venue. The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement will be governed
by the laws of the State of Michigan, excluding its choice of laws rules. Any legal suit, action or
proceeding arising out of this Agreement will be instituted in the federal courts of the United States
of America or the courts of the State of Michigan, in each case located in the City of Detroit and
County of Wayne, and each Party irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts
in any such suit, action, or proceeding.

E. Severability. In the event that any provision in this Agreement is found by a court to be
impermissible or illegal, then that provision shall be stricken from the Agreement and shall be
replaced by a provision that is permissible and legal and by mutual agreement of the Parties comes
closest to expressing the intent of the stricken provision. The remainder of the Agreement shall
remain in full force and effect in accordance with its original overall intent.

F. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed to be an original, all of which together shall constitute but one document. Each
counterpart may be executed by facsimile or electronic signature, which will be deemed to be an
original signature, to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

[Signatures appear on next page.]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the dates shown

below, to be effective as of the Effective Date.

INVEST DETROIT FOUNDATION,

a Michigan nonpro?t corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By:
Name:
Its:
Date:
Approved as to Form Only:
By:
Carrie Lewand-Monroe, Counsel to INVEST
DETROIT FOUNDATION
CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation
By:
Name:
Its:
Date:

 

THIS CONTRACT WAS APPROVED BY
THE CITY COUNCIL ON

APPROVED BY LAW DEPARTMENT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 7.5-206 OF
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

 

 

Purchasing Director Date

Corporation Counsel Date

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL AND SIGNED BY THE PURCHASING

DIRECTOR.

