PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

June 7, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002183 100% City Funding To Provide a Separate Authority to Acquire,
Develop, and Re?Sell Land located in the City through the Rehabbed and
Ready Program. (Fitzgerald Project). Contractor: Detroit Land Bank
Authority Location: 500 Griswold, Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Period:
Upon City Council Approval through June 30, 2020 Total Contract
Amount: $500,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002183 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 7, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

Alton James air? of Eetta it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis

Damion Ellis
Vlce Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza LEED

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory 

[garcell R. Todd, Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.

?ect? Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitrni.gov
June 7, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Mr. Bernard Butris to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 19 of the 1984
Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a P1 (Open Parking District) zoning
classi?cation where an R1 (Single-family Residential District) zoning classi?cation and B4
(General Business District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on three (3) parcels
commonly identi?ed as 5710 E. Eight Mile Road, 20564 and 20576 Syracuse Avenue,
generally bounded by E. Eight Mile Road to the north, the north?south alley ?rst east of
Syracuse Avenue to the east, Hamlet Street to the south and Syracuse Avenue to the west.
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

NATURE OF REQUEST AND PROJECT PROPOSAL

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has completed its review and deliberations on the request of
Mr. Bernard Butris to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 19 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a P1 (Open Parking District) zoning classi?cation where an R1
(Single?family Residential District) zoning classi?cation and B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation currently exists on three (3) parcels commonly identi?ed as 5710 E. Eight Mile Road,
20564 and 205 76 Syracuse Avenue, generally bounded by E. Eight Mile Road to the north, the north-
south alley ?rst east of Syracuse Avenue to the east, Hamlet Street to the south and Syracuse Avenue
to the west.

BACKGROUND

The subject properties are located in Council District 3 and measure less than half an acre in area.
The subject parcels are under the sole ownership of the petitioner Mr. Butris according to a Quit
Claim Deed dated June 20, 2018 in which the petitioner acquired 20576 and 20564 Syracuse from
the Detroit Land Bank Authority.

The subject properties are located in Census Tract 5067. Based upon the most recent census data the
total population for the area is 1,051. There are approximately 384 occupied residential units and
187 vacant residential structures which results in a vacancy rate of 48%.

Proposed Development

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment of an ?Open Parking
District? at 5710 E. Eight Mile Road, 20564 and 20576 Syracuse Avenue. The proposed use would
be permitted on a by-right per Sec. 61-11-43. This district is designed for off-street parking of private
passenger vehicles on property which abuts, or is separated by an alley or easement from, a non-
residential district. The regulations permit the establishment of parking facilities to serve the non-
residential uses, and at the same time do not permit the non-residential uses themselves to extend into

Page 1 of 5

residential areas. The district will assist in reducing traf?c congestion caused by non?residential uses
and at the same time will protect abutting residential areas from the deleterious effects of adjacent
vehicular parking areas.

This use is speci?cally being sought to allow the petitioner the ability to maximize the utilization of
their current Medical Marihuana Caregiver Facility, Flavors Detroit located at 5730 W. Eight Mile
Road. State licensure is currently being sought to convert the facility into a Medical Marihuana
Provisioning Center, and in order to utilize the maximum square footage of the facility, additional
parking must be provided.

The parcels identi?ed as 5710 E. Eight Mile Road and 20576 Syracuse Avenue are presently zoned
B4. 5710 E. Eight Mile Road is presently developed as an accessory parking lot for the petitioner?s
business and could as a matter of right be expended to the south, given the absence of an alley-way
or any easements. The parcel identi?ed as 20564 Syracuse is zoned R1 and is adjacent to an occupied
single-family residential structure to the south. Should the requested zoning change be granted, there
must be strict adherence to the design standards for off-street parking areas as outlined in Secs. 61-
14-221 and 61?14-222 for right-of?way screening and residential screening respectively.

SURROUNDING LAND USE AND ZONING
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: General Commercial Warren, Michigan.

East: R1 Single-family residential Flavors Detroit.

South: Single-family.

West: R1 Single-family Residential Salvation Army Outlet Store.

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING OTHER COMMUNITY
MEETINGS

On April 25, 2019, the City Flaming Commission held a public hearing on this request. There were
no members of the public in attendance to address the rezoning request.

The Commission raised a number of questions in regards to perimeter security for the facility, as well
as the composition of the masonry wall which is required to separate the P1 parking area from the R1
residential properties to the south.

Forty-two notices were sent out to residents and property owners within 300 radial feet of the subject
site. None have been returned as undeliverable. To date, staff has received no communications via
mail or telephone either in opposition or support of the requested rezoning.

MASTER PLAN CONFORMANCE

The subject site is located within the Pershing area of Neighborhood Cluster 1 of the Detroit
Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Thoroughfare
Commercial? and ?Low Density Residential? for the subject properties. The Flaming and
Development Department has submitted a report dated April 3, 2019 which states in
part:

he proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area. 

Page 2 of 5

ANALYSIS

The proposed zoning classi?cation of P1 would permit the requested use of an open parking area for
an adjacent business on a by?right basis. The proposed Pl district is designed for off-street parking
of private passenger vehicles on property which abuts, or is separated by an alley or easement from, a
non-residential district. The regulations permit the establishment of parking facilities to serve the
non-residential uses, and at the same time do not permit the non-residential uses themselves to extend
into residential areas. The district will assist in reducing traf?c congestion caused by non-residential
uses and at the same time will protect abutting residential areas from the deleterious effects of
adjacent vehicular parking areas.

The following analysis details how the proposed rezoning either meets or fails to meet the eight
approval criteria of Section 61-3-80 of the Zoning Ordinance, which must be considered in making
recommendations and decisions on standard rezoning requests.

(1) Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some changing
condition, trend or fact;

Two-thirds of the subject property are currently zoned B4 and would allow for the expansion of the
existing parking lot on a by-right basis. The proposed zoning change allows for the continuation of
an ongoing use while prohibiting more deleterious and injurious uses adjacent to residential
properties.

(2) Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Master Plan and the stated purposes
of this Zoning Ordinance;

While the subject rezoning is not a one for one match to the Master Plan of Policies land use
designation, the Planning and Development Department ?nds the request generally consistent with
the Master Plan as detailed later in this report.

(3) Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public;

The P1 district is designed for off-street parking of private passenger vehicles on property which
abuts, or is separated by an alley or easement from, a non-residential district. The regulations permit
the establishment of parking facilities to serve the non-residential uses, and at the same time do not
permit the non-residential uses themselves to extend into residential areas. The district will assist in
reducing traf?c congestion caused by non?residential uses and at the same time will protect abutting
residential areas from the deleterious effects of adjacent vehicular parking areas.

(4) Whether the City and other service providers will be able to provide adequate public facilities
and services to the subject property, while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing
development;

The physical characteristics of the subject property will change signi?cantly as a result of the
proposed rezoning. Site plans have been presented which show the landscaping and layout of the
proposed development. Although alterations to the sight plans need to be made in order to the met
the requirement of the zoning ordinance in terms of interior landscaping, and right-of?way screening.
Given that the subject property is within a traditional street grid disruption to city services is not
anticipated.

Page 3 of 5

(5) Whether the proposed rezoning will have signi?cant adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including air, water, soil, wildlife, and vegetation and with respect to
anticipated changes in noise and regarding storm water management;

There are no concerns regarding any of these aspects. Existing infrastructure is in place to address
stormwater and drainage concerns.

(6) Whether the proposed amendment will have signi?cant adverse impacts on other property
that is in the vicinity of the subject tract;

The vast majority of the uses in the immediate area are either residential or in nature.
However, there is a sparsely populated residential neighborhood to the south of the subject property.
Given the spacing, setback, landscaping and screening requirements for the proposed use staff is of
the opinion that no signi?cant adverse impacts will occur as a direct result of the proposed rezoning.

(7) The suitability of the subject property for the existing zoning classi?cation and proposed
zoning classi?cation; and

As noted previously, the existing B4 zoning classi?cation is conducive for the proposed uses,
however the R1 zoning classi?cation is not. In making the recommendation to pursue a P1 zoning
classi?cation, CPC staff considered what would grant the petitioner use of their property, while
maintaining a reasonable separation from the adjacent residential properties to the south.

(8) Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone.?

Given the commercial nature of the corridor in which this rezoning has been requested along with the
proposed rezoning?s consistency with the Master Plan of Policies, staff is of the opinion that the
proposed rezoning would not constitute an illegal ?spot zone.?

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Pershing area of Neighborhood Cluster 1 of the Detroit Master
Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Thoroughfare Commercial? for the
subject property. The Planning and Development Department has submitted a report dated
April 3, 2019 which states in part:

he proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use Characteristics of the area. 

Suitability of the Property

One of the aforementioned criteria for rezoning states, ?The suitability of the subject property for the
existing zoning classi?cation and proposed zoning classi?cation.? Zoning Map No. 19 generally
shows a mix of R1 and B4 zoning to the north, south, east and west of the subject property. This
section of the Pershing subsector is primarily developed with residential and commercial uses. The
existing residential properties along Syracuse Avenue where primarily built between 1920 and 1928.
As previously stated the P1 zoning classi?cation allows for the continuation of parking while
protecting the adjacent residential neighborhood.

In general, the CPC looks favorably on the rezoning of the subject parcel to accommodate the
expansion of commercial and retail services.

Land Use

Page 4 of5

The CPC is of the opinion that a P1 zoning classi?cation is an appropriate designation consistent
with the characteristics of the adjacent properties, which will allow for the establishment of an open
parking area to support commercial and retail related uses.

Signi?cant Impact on Other Property

The CPC concludes that the rezoning of this property from a commercial stand-point might add to
the sustainability of the surrounding community by allowing the establishment of an economically
viable, tax revenue generating development.

RECOMMENDATION

On April 18, 2019 the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend approval of the request of Mr.
Bernard Butris to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 19 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter
61, Zoning, by showing a P1 (Open Parking District) zoning classi?cation where an R1 (Single-
family Residential District) zoning classi?cation and B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation currently exists on three (3) parcels commonly identi?ed as 5710 E. Eight Mile Road,
20564 and 20576 Syracuse Avenue, generally bounded by E. Eight Mile Road to the north, the north-
south alley ?rst east of Syracuse Avenue to the east, Hamlet Street to the south and Syracuse Avenue
to the west.

submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Ethen?dge, Staff

Attachments:

Zoning Map No. 19
Ordinance

Page 5 of 5

Alton James ?it? at Ecttnit Brenda Goss?Andrews

LChairpIc-lrsord MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
auren 00 AIA, LEED
Vic, Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of Mr. Bernard Butris to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 19 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a P1 (Open Parking District) zoning
classi?cation where an R1 (Single-family Residential District) and B4 (General Business
District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on three (3) parcels, commonly identi?ed as 5710
E. Eight Mile Road, 20564 and 20576 Syracuse Avenue.

The location of the proposed rezoning is speci?cally indicated as the shaded area on the
accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the expansion of an accessory
parking lot located at 5701 E. Eight Mile Road. The pr0posed open parking district would be
permitted on a by?right in the proposed P1 zoning classi?cation.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:
R1 Single-family Residential District

This district is designed to protect and preserve quiet, low-density residential areas now
primarily developed and those areas which will be developed with single-family detached
dwellings and characterized by a high ratio of home ownership. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the district and
to promote and encourage a suitable environment for activities associated with family life.
To these ends, development is limited to a relatively low concentration and uses permitted
by right are limited to single-family detached dwellings which provide homes for the
residents of the area. Additional residential uses such as religious institutions,
neighborhood centers, and utility uses necessary to serve the immediate area may be
permitted on a conditional basis.

B4 General Business District

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t
by drawing part of their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional uses, which
may be successfully blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.

P1 Open Parking District

This district is designed for off-street parking of private passenger vehicles on property
which abuts, or is separated by an alley or easement from, a non-residential district. The
regulations permit the establishment of parking facilities to serve the non-residential uses,
and at the same time do not permit the non-residential uses themselves to extend into
residential areas. The district will assist in reducing traf?c congestion caused by non-
residential uses and at the same time will protect abutting residential areas from the
deleterious effects of adjacent vehicular parking areas.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Flaming Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
111, Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: Because it is possible that some who are affected
by this proposal may not have been notified, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 313-224-4950, through the
TTY number 711, or email Cling?tedctroitmigov to schedule these services.

 

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EIGHTMILEE 
a 1 3. 
T1 R1IER1 R1 g\ M4 
Ll? ifigitEiMEF-T I 
ll] 1? illill l1Proposed Rezoning from B4 and R1 to P1

 

 

 

 



FENELON A VENUE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


1 9 (6-3-2012)



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r?Il?_I

NEVADA AVENUE

0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"lull 

VAN DYKE A VENUE

urn-q



nun-u M.


CD

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

TO: Mr. Marcell Todd, Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Rezoning at 5710 E. Eight Mile, 20564 Syracuse, and 20576
Syracuse

DATE: April 3, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 19 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a P1 (Open Parking District) where a B4 (General
Business) and R1 (Single Family Residential) currently exists.

Pursuant to the City of Detroit?s City Charter (Sections 6?202 and 6-204), the Planning and Development
Department?s Planning Division submits the following review of the proposed rezoning.

Petitioner: Mr. Bernard Butris

Location and Project Proposal: Subject site is located at 5710 E. Eight Mile and 20564 20576 Syracuse.
The petitioner is requesting a rezoning to allow for the establishment of an ?Open Parking District?
adjacent to the petitioner's existing business located at 5730 E. Eight Mile Road. The proposed parking
use would be permitted on a by-right in the proposed P1 zoning classification

Existing Site Information: The subject site fronts E. 8 Mile Road, a wide commercial thoroughfare and
wraps to the south along Syracuse. 5710 E. 8 Mile is currently operating as a parking lot, 20576 is an
empty grass lot, and 20564 appears to be an occupied single-family residential property.

Surrounding Site Information: Directly to the west of the subject site along E. 8 Mile Road is a corner
parking lot serving a Salvation Army and to the east is a large, possibly vacant commercial structure, and
a Sunoco gas station. To the south of the subject site is a single-family residential neighborhood. To the
north, the subject site fronts E. 8 Mile and the dividing median separating east/west commuter traffic.

Interpretation

Impact on Surroundina Land Use

The subject site's proposed use as a parking district is a common feature throughout the E. 8 Mile
corridor. The proposed open parking district continues to emphasize a landscape not uncommon to
areas classified as a Commercial Thoroughfare. The indirect consequence of this corridor character is the
dominance of hardscapes along the corridor with little to no landscape buffering or curb appeal.

Impact on Transportation

This stretch of E. 8 Mile is served by a DDOT bus line; there is an eastbound bus stop one block to the
west on Caldwell and a westbound bus stop on the north side of E. 8 Mile Rd. The subject site, serving as
an open-parking district most likely will encourage greater vehicle flow and automobile density on this
corner.

 

 

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area located at 5710 E. Eight Mile and 20576 Syracuse is designated Thoroughfare
Commercial (CT). Thoroughfare Commercial areas are located along the major automobile
thoroughfares of the City. The retail uses along these thoroughfares are generally oriented toward the
passing automobile traffic. High traffic generating uses are generally permitted provided that they are
properly buffered from residential and other uses that may be negatively impacted.

The subject site area located at 20564 Syracuse is designated Low Density Residential (RL). Low Density
Residential areas should have an overall density of up to 8 dwelling units per net residential acre. The
areas are often characterized by single family homes with front yard setbacks and driveways with garage
or off street parking. The residential classifications allow for neighborhood-scale commercial
development. The proposed subject site use as a parking district begins to encroach upon the residential
neighborhood; landscape buffering and/or design considerations are strongly encouraged to minimize
disruptive and negative impacts on the residential community. This particular location, 20564 Syracuse
is out of the boundary designated Thoroughfare Commercial (CT), however the Master Plan
Future Land Use categories used on all the maps are generalized. Boundaries are not meant to be
precise as to blocks or property lines. Petitioner is strongly encouraged to engage impacted neighbors
and residents as the parking use is designed and constructed. Design will need to comply with
landscaping requirements in the zoning ordinance, particularly since the square footage of parking will
be rather substantial.

The following policies of the Pershing neighborhood describe the following recommendations:
0 Policy 1.1: Encourage the use of code enforcement as a tool to maintain neighborhoods
0 Goal 4: Improve the appearance of commercial area

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 1, Pershing; Map 1-SB

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom?ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 19 to show
a P1 (Open Parking District) zoning classi?cation where R1 (Single-family Residential District)
and B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cations are currently shown on three (3)
parcels commonly identi?ed as 5711} East Eight Mile Road, and 20564 and 205% Syracuse
Avenue, generally bounded by East Eight Mile Road to the north. the north-south alley ?rst east
of Syracuse Avenue to the east, Hamlet Street to the south, and Syracuse Avenue to the west.

I'd



9

10

11

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
19 to show a P1 (Open Parking District) zoning classi?cation where R1 (Single-family
Residential District) and B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cations are currently
shown on three (3) parcels commonly identi?ed as 5710 East Eight Mile Road, and 20564 and
20576 Syracuse Avenue, generally bounded by East Eight Mile Road to the north, the north-
south alley ?rst east of Syracuse Avenue to the east, Hamlet Street to the south, and Syracuse
Avenue to the west.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Map No. 19 is amended to show a PI (Open Parking District) zoning
classi?cation where R1 (Single-family Residential District) and B4 (General Business Distrig)
zoning classifications are currently shown on three (3) parcels commonly identi?ed as 5710 East
Eight Mile Road. and 20564 and 20576 Syracuse Avenue. generally bounded by East Eight Mile
Road to the north, the north-south alley ?rst east of Syracuse Avenue to the east. Hamlet Street
to the south. and Syracuse Avenue to the west. and identi?ed more speci?cally as:

Land situated in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne. State of Michigan, as

toms:

EIGHT MILE RD 12282123 8 MILE AS WD NORTH HAMTRAMCK

SUB L36 P68 FLATS. 131303 107? 68 inclusive ol?E SYRACUSE 124

through [35 HAMTRAMCK L36 P68 FLATS, [3/303 35 It}?

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance

are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth day after publication in
accordance with MCL 125.340l(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City

Charter.

Approved as to Form:

 

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

Chairperson

Qtitp at Benoit 2

Brenda Goss Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis

Vic, Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 33330;;ng MA LEED

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory pawlo?wski 
Marcel] TOdd Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
D'rect?" Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

June 7, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Thomas Group Consulting and Parkstone Development Partners to amend Article
XVII, District Map No. 63 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a
B1 (Restricted Business District) zoning classi?cation and a B4 (General Business District)
zoning classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation
currently exists on one (1) parcel commonly identi?ed as 18520 West Seven Mile Road,
generally bounded by Vassar Avenue to the north, Glastonbury Avenue to the east, W. Seven
Mile Road to the south and Greenview Avenue to the west. (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

NATURE OF REQUEST AND PROJECT PROPOSAL

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has completed its review and deliberations on the request of
Thomas Group Consulting and Parkstone Development Partners. Consistent with the analysis and
?ndings provided below, the Commission recommends approval of the request to show a B1
(Restricted Business District) zoning classi?cation and a B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists
on one (1) parcel commonly identi?ed as 18520 West Seven Mile Road, generally bounded by
Vassar Avenue to the north, Glastonbury Avenue to the east, W. Seven Mile Road to the south and
Greenview Avenue to the west.

BACKGROUND

The subject property is located in Council District 1 and measures approximately thirteen (13) acres
in area. Formerly known as the Arnold Home, the corner stone of that facility was laid in September
1931. Designed and built by Weston and Ellington the facility was opened to both men and women
as a retirement facility in December of 1931. The ?rst phase consisted of four wings, two stories
high with beds for 115 patients, a dining hall, hospital facilities, and gathering rooms. Two more
?oors were added in 1938, completing the Greek revival facade, and bringing the capacity up to 235
patients.

By the 50th anniversary of the home in 1949, the Arnold Home had grown from a home for the
in?rm into a thriving community of retirees. Separate quarters for the hospital?s nurses and
executives were dedicated in 1952, and a 110-bed addition was completed in 1958, bringing the total
number of residents to 395.

In July of 2004, the Arnold Home announced that it would be closing due to ?nancial troubles. The

185 residents were relocated to other facilities, and 300 staff members were laid off. The home was
vacated two months later. At the time, it was Michigan?s oldest nursing home.

Page 1 of5

After several false starts, demolition of the Arnold Home started in May of 2013. The bulk of the
structure was gone by August. The cost was covered by HUD grants that were originally intended for
home demolition, but were re-routed for commercial buildings.

Since the most recent Wayne County Treasurer tax foreclosure in 2011 the subject property has gone
through four title changes. The parcel commonly identi?ed as 18520 W. Seven Mile Road is
currently under the sole ownership of Davison Plaza Shopping Center Inc.

The subject property is located in Census Tract 5407. Based on the most recent census data the total
population for the area is 3,753. There are approximately 1,197 households with an average of 3
persons per household. As of the 2010 census there were 1,458 residential units with 82% of those
units being occupied.

Proposed Development

The proposed map amendments are being requested to allow for the establishment of a ?Store of a
generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new merchandise? along the
W. Seven Mile Road frontage and to allow for the establishment of a ?governmental service agency?
on the balance of the site located at 18520 W. Seven Mile Road. The initial phase of the
development is anticipated to consist of one strip retail development along the W. Seven Mile Road
frontage and one Department of Health and Human Services of?ce facility on the northern portion of
the site. Data collected by the Michigan Secretary of State of?ce shows that a substantial number of
residents who utilize the current W. Grand Boulevard DHHS facility located at 3040 W. Grand
Boulevard in the former GM Headquarters building reside in the 48219 zip code.

Additional phases which would include the complete build-out of the W. Seven Mile Road
commercial frontage as well as the addition of a second of?ce building on the balance of the site are
anticipated based on the demand for the services.

Pending the passage of the concurrently proposed text amendment, both the general retail and
governmental service agency uses would be permitted by?right in the B1 and B4 zoning
classi?cations respectively. It is the developer?s intent to break ground in either September or
October of 2019.

SURROUNDING LAND USE AND ZONING
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: Single?family Residential along Vassar Avenue.

East: R1 Single-family Resident along Glastonbury Avenue Best Offer Auto
used auto sales lot.

South: BP Gas Station Greenview Auto Works Five Star Hand Car Wash Best
Offer Auto secondary location.

West: Single-family Residential along Greeview Avenue.

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING OTHER COMMUNITY
MEETINGS

On April 4, 2019, the City Flaming Commission held a public hearing on this request. There were
three members of the public in attendance to address the rezoning request. Those in attendance spoke
in support of the proposed rezoning.

Page 2 of5

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS

CPC staff along with the petitioner and Ms. Latrice McClendon the District Manager for City
Council District 1 presented before the executive board of the O?Hair Park Community
Association on Tuesday, March 19, 2019. There were approximately 24 residents in attendance.
The community members present were overwhelmingly in support of the proposed text
amendment and the rezoning.

Points of concern which were raised primarily revolved around the need for a traf?c study and
additional points of ingress and egress to the facility. One recommendation was a point of
ingress and egress to be added on Greeview Avenue at Cambridge Avenue. Additionally, a point
of ingress and egress was recommended for Vassar Avenue at the northern?most portion of the
site.

MASTER PLAN CONFORMANCE

The subject site is located within the Evergreen area of Neighborhood Cluster 8 of the Detroit Master
Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Institutional? for the subject
property. The Planning and Development Department has submitted a report dated April 2,
2019 which states in part:

he proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the area. 

ANALYSIS

The proposed zoning classi?cation of B1 and B4 would permit the requested uses of general retail
and governmental service agency on a by?right basis. The proposed B1 zoning classi?cation would
permit 36 by-right residential, public, civic, institutional, retail, service, commercial and other uses.
The proposed B4 zoning classi?cation would permit 74 by-right public, civic, institutional, retail,
service, commercial, manufacturing, industrial and other uses, compared to the 34 permitted by right
uses in the existing R6 zoning classi?cation. The most intensive uses in the B4 zoning classi?cation
includes ?Motor vehicle services? inclusive of repair and steam cleaning. Again, the B4 zoning
classi?cation is directed to the W. Seven Mile Road frontage which is presently developed with
several automotive related uses. However, staff will note that many automotive related uses would
not be able to achieve licensure, given the Mayor?s moratorium which is scheduled to remain in
effect until April 1, 2020.

The following analysis details how the proposed rezoning either meets or fails to meet the eight
approval criteria of Section 61-3?80 of the Zoning Ordinance, which must be considered in making
recommendations and decisions on standard rezoning requests.

(1) Whether the preposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some changing
condition, trend or fact;

Several areas of the City of Detroit are undergoing substantial reinvestment, inclusive of W. Seven
Mile Road in northwest Detroit. With the demolition of the former Arnold Home site in 2013, the
property has sat vacant and unimproved for over a decade. The proposed investment in this property
will reinstitute the envisioned institutional use of the property while providing commercial and retail
offerings along the W. Seven Mile Road corridor.

(2) Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Master Plan and the stated purposes
of this Zoning Ordinance;

Page 3 of 5

The proposed rezoning of B1 and B4 respectively are consistent with the Master Plan of Policies as
re?ected in Flaming and Development?s April 2, 2019 report.

(3) Wether the pr0posed amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public,?

The proposed rezonings are designed to keep density levels low in what is a traditionally low-density
residential neighborhood. The intended use of governmental service agencies by way of the
Department of Health and Human Services which is seeking to relocate their Senior services hub to a
community which largely utilizes those services is consistent with zoning and the Master Plan of
Policies.

(4) Whether the City and other service providers will be able to provide adequate public
facilities and services to the subject property, while maintaining adequate levels of service to
existing development;

The physical characteristics of the subject property will change signi?cantly as a result of the
proposed rezoning. Preliminary site plans have been presented which show the layout of the
proposed development. Given that the subject property is within a traditional street grid, disruption
to city services is not anticipated.

(5) Whether the proposed rezoning will have significant adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including air, water, soil, wildlife, and vegetation and with respect to
anticipated changes in noise and regarding storm water management;

There are no concerns regarding any of these aspects.

(6) Whether the proposed amendment will have significant adverse impacts on other property
that is in the vicinity of the subject tract;

The vast majority of the uses in the immediate area are either residential or commercial in nature.

However, there is a densely populated residential neighborhood to the north of the subject property.
Given the spacing, setback, landscaping and screening requirements for the proposed use, staff is of
the opinion that no signi?cant adverse impacts will occur as a direct result of the proposed rezoning.

(7) The suitability of the subject property for the existing zoning classification and proposed
zoning classi?cation; and

As noted previously, the existing R6 zoning classi?cation is not conducive for the proposed uses
which are commercial and institutional in nature. Before making the recommendation to pursue a B1
and B4 zoning classi?cation, respectively, CPC staff evaluated all zoning classi?cations and
determined that the B1 and B4 zoning classi?cation would allow for the proposed use and maintain
the character of the neighborhood along the W. Seven Mile Road frontage, Greenview Avenue and
Glastonbury Avenue, respectively.

(8) Whether the proposed rezoning will create an illegal ?spot zone. 
Given the commercial nature of the corridor in which this rezoning has been requested along with the

proposed rezoning?s consistency with the Master Plan of Policies, CPC has concluded that the
proposed rezoning would not constitute an illegal ?spot zone.?

Page 4 of 5

Suitability of the Property

One of the aforementioned criteria for rezoning states, ?The suitability of the subject property for the
existing zoning classi?cation and proposed zoning classi?cation.? Zoning Map No. 63 generally
shows a mix of R1 and B4 zoning to the north, south, east and west of the subject property. This
section of the Evergreen subsector is primarily developed with residential and commercial uses. The
existing residential properties along Greenview Avenue and Glastonbury Avenue were primarily
built between 1942 and 1948. As previously stated, the B4 zoning classi?cation allows for a variety
of commercial offerings and supportive services for traditional residential neighborhoods. The
proposed Bl zoning classi?cation would allow for the implementation of institutional and limited
commercial uses without introducing deleterious effects into a primarily residential neighborhood.

In general, the CPC looks favorably on the rezoning of the subject parcel to accommodate the
expansion of commercial and retail services.

Land Use

The CPC is of the opinion that a B1 and B4 zoning classi?cation is an appropriate designation
consistent with the characteristics of the adjacent properties, which will allow for the establishment
of commercial, retail and institutional related uses.

Significant Impact on Other Property

The CPC is of the opinion that the rezoning of this property from a commercial stand-point might
add to the sustainability of the surrounding community by allowing the establishment of an
economically viable, tax revenue generating development.

RECOMMENDATION

On April 11, 2019 the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend approval of the request of
Thomas Group Consulting and Parkstone Development Partners. Consistent with the analysis and
?ndings provided above, the CPC recommends approval of the request to show a B1 (Restricted
Business District) zoning classi?cation and a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation
where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one (1)
parcel commonly identi?ed as 18520 West Seven Mile Road, generally bounded by Vassar Avenue
to the north, Glastonbury Avenue to the east, W. Seven Mile Road to the south and Greenview
Avenue to the west.

Respect?illy submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

(- amend 2742/13

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachments:

Zoning Map No. 63
Ordinance

Page 5 of5

Alton James @it? at matruit Brenda Cass-Andrews

LChairpgsor; MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
auren oo 'd IA, LEED
Vic, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Gigorysg?ifmk,

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Flaming Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY. APRIL 4.. 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of the Thomas Group Consulting and Parkstone Development Partners to
amend Article XVII, District Map No. 63 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by
showing a B4 (General Business District) and B1 (Restricted Business District) zoning
classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently
exists on one (1) parcel, commonly identi?ed as 18520 W. Seven Mile Road.

The location of the proposed rezoning is speci?cally indicated as the shaded area on the
accompanying map.

The preposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment of a ?Store of a
generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new merchandise? along
the W. Seven Mile Road frontage, and a ?Governmental service agency? on the balance of the
parcel at 18520 W. Seven Mile Road. The proposed retail and commercial uses would be
permitted on a by?right basis in the proposed B1 and B4 zoning classi?cations pending the
approval of a text amendment to allow governmental service agencies in the B1 zoning
classi?cation.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:
R6 High Density Residential District

The district is designed as a high?density multiple?dwellings district to be used primarily
in areas adjacent to the Central business district, the New Center Area, the Cultural Center,
the waterfront, certain large city parks, and other areas which have a high concentration of
persons and land values. This district will permit a range of living accommodations, from
the low-density dwelling up to very high-density dwellings, including institutions and
residentially related uses, and will permit certain speci?ed service and convenience-type
commercial uses of a character unlikely to develop excessive traf?c but which will serve
the residents of the immediate area. Single-family detached and two-family dwellings will
not be permitted in this district by-right but may be allowed as Conditional Uses.

B1 Restricted Business District
The B1 District is designed to provide an adequately controlled transition in land use from

residential to business and commercial uses and is mapped accordingly. Permitted uses are
limited to those which are desirable and can be ?tted into such a transitional pattern of land

use. Front, side, and rear setbacks are required of all permitted residential and commercial uses.

To protect housing adjacent or across an alley, a lot line wall is required of nonresidential uses
where adjacent to, or across an alley from, residential property.

B4 General Business District

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t

by drawing part of their clientele ?om passing traf?c are permitted. Additional uses, which
may be successfully blended with permitted by?right uses, are conditional.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: Because it is possible that some who are affected

by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please

contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 3 3-24-4950, through the
TTY number 711, or email to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225t?Ia? IR1E cmaalonE IRII IRII IR1IIR1R1..RI1Iawe?
E4 I II 
SEVENMILEW Proposed Rezoning from R6 to B1 and B4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

TO: Mr. Marcell Todd, Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Rezoning at 18520 W. Seven Mile Road
DATE: April 2, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 63 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a BI (Restricted Business District) and B4 (General
Business District) zoning classification where an R6 (High Density Residential) currently exists.
Subject site is located on 18520 W. Seven Mile Road

Pursuant to the City of Detroit's City Charter (Sections 6-202 and 6-204), the Planning and Development
Department?s Planning Division submits the following review of the proposed rezoning.

Petitioner: Thomas Group Consulting and Parkstone Development Partners

Location and Project Proposal: Subject site is located at 18520 W. Seven Mile Road. The proposed
rezoning to a B4 (General Business District) will support the establishment of a retail business along W.
Seven Mile Road. Additionally, the proposed rezoning to a Bl (Restricted Business District) will support
the creation and operation of a new government service agency, the Michigan Department of Health
and Human Services.

Existing Site Information: The existing site was the former location of the Arnold Home, a senior living
community that was demolished in 2013. The site currently sits vacant and is approximately 13 acres
and consumes a quadrant of approximately 4 neighborhood blocks.

Surrounding Site Information: The subject site is surrounded on the west, north, and east sides by
residential neighborhoods; the southern side of the subject site fronts W. Seven Mile Road and is
adjacent to a mixture of commercial/retail businesses, auto yard, a church, and a sprinkling of
community interest establishments

Interpretation

Impact on Surrounding [and Use

The proposed use on the subject site will re-occupy/redevelop a large area of unproductive property
and potentially attract more foot and/or commuter consumer traffic for adjacent existing businesses.
Proposed business uses and rezoning on subject site could also attract and diversify business types and
more small-scaled neighborhood-friendly retail to balance out the dominance of auto-related business
that dominate the immediate adjacent blocks

 

(Egon on Transportation
Subject site is serviced by a DDOT bus line and has the potential to attract ridership of individuals
seeking retail destinations and services at the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services

 

 

Master Plan Interpretation

The subject site area is designated Institutional (INST). Institutional status applies to areas of
approximately 10 acres or more with educational, religious, health or public uses, including: churches,
libraries, museums, public or private schools, hospitals, or government building, structure or land used
for public purposes.

The following policies of the Evergreen neighborhood describe the following recommendations:
- Policy 1.1 Use code enforcement as a tool to maintain the stability ofthe area north of Seven
Mile and southeast of Seven Mile and Evergreen
0 Policy 3.1 Target McNichols and Seven Mile with business improvement and retention
programs
I Policy 5.1 Encourage code enforcement, the removal of abrasive commercial uses, and
physical improvements along Seven Mile and McNichols

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachments
Future General Land Use Map: Neighborhood Cluster 8, Evergreen, Map 8-23

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 63 to show
a B1 (Restricted Business District) zoning classi?cation and a B4 (General Business District)
zoning classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation
currently exists on one (1) parcel commonly identi?ed as 18520 West Seven Mile Road,
generally bounded by Vassar Avenue to the north, Glastonbury Avenue to the east, W. Seven
Mile Road to the south and Greenview Avenue to the west.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No.
63 to show a B1 (Restricted Business District) zoning classi?cation and a B4 (General Business
District) zoning classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning
classi?cation currently exists on one (1) parcel commonly identi?ed as 18520 West Seven Mile
Road, generally bounded by Vassar Avenue to the north, Glastonbury Avenue to the east, W.
Seven Mile Road to the south and Greenview Avenue to the west.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Article XVII, Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom?ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Men No. 63 to show a (Restricted Business District) zoning classi?cation and

 

a B4 (General Business District) zoning classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential
District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on one 'l parcel commonlv identi?ed as 18520
West Seven Mile Road. aeneralIv bounded by Vassar Avenue to the north, Glastonbury Avenue
to the east. W. Seven Mile Road to the south and Greenview Avenue to the west, identi?ed more
ageci?cally as:

Land situated in the Citv of Detroit. Countv of Wayne, State of Michigan. as
m;

SEVEN MILE RD ALL THAT FOLS BEG AT A PTE IN LINE MILLDALE SUB DIST OD 01M 

60 FT FROM 8 COR SD SUB TH 88D 50M 305.93 FT GO 13M

10

11

12

108 F. 1230.01M 1229.53 FT TO

ALSO 240 THRU 265 AND VAC CAMBRIDGE AVE VAC. FAUST

AVE ADJ SD LOTS ALSO 83 FT OF 271 THRU 268 83 FT OF 5 FT

267 AND VAC VAC FAUST AVE ADJ MILLDALE SUB L39 1?62

PLATS. 23353 12.93 ACRES.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance
are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication
in accordance with MCL 125.3401(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City

Charter.

Approved as to Form:

Wi?mi

?twrence Garcia
Corporation Counsel

Alton James @it? at Ectrnit Brenda Goss Ancirews

Chairperson Damion Ellis
We CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Egg'?v'fl?fgfr?; 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Marcel! R. Todd, r. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov
June 7, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment (Maximum lot coverage, Governmental Service

Agency, Parks and Recreation - incidental retail sales, high-frequency transit corridors,
Assembly?, Banquet- and Rental Halls) (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has completed its review and deliberations of the several
enclosed proposed text amendments. The proposals include amendments to the use lists of various
zoning classi?cations as well as dimensional standards as outlined in the report below. On April 18,
2019 the CPC voted to recommend approval of the proposed text amendments to the Detroit Zoning
Ordinance, Chapter 61, of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

SCOPE OF ORDINANCE

1) With the passage of Ordinance No. 37-17, the Fifth General text amendment, Sec. 61-13-102
was inadvertently left unchanged in regards to the language specifying an R5 conditional retail,
service, and commercial use; uses occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of gross ?oor
area and not having drive-up or drive-through facilities, where located in a building constructed
prior to January 1, 2017 and located on a zoning lot not farther than one-half mile from
bus rapid transit, streetcar trolley or light rail line, strictly limited 

It was the intent of Ordinance No. 37-17 to amend this section by striking the language . .bus
rapid transit, streetcar trolley or light rail and replacing it with ?a high-frequency
transit corridor as de?ned in Sec. 61-16-102 of the Code,?

2) With the pending redevelopment of the former Arnold Home site located at W. Seven Mile
Road and Greenview Avenue, slated to house a new Health and Human Services Governmental
Service Agency Of?ce and additional retail offerings, Secs. 61?9?1 5 and 61-9-35 are proposed
to be amended to include ?Governmental service agency? as a by?right use in both the B1
(Restricted Business District) zoning classi?cation and the B2 (Local Business and Residential
District) zoning classi?cation.

3) With the continued development of the Detroit riverfront in conjunction with the non-pro?t
organizations and other governmental entities, which exist to manage and maintain public
assets such as Campus Martius, Mt. Elliot Park and Milliken State Park, staff is initiating the
proposed text amendment to expand the by?right retail, service, and commercial use related to
retail sales clearly incidental and accessory to uses permitted in the PR district to include other

Association on Tuesday, March 19, 2019, at which time support for the pr0posed text amendment
and rezoning of the former Arnold Home site located at 18520 W. Seven Mile Road was offered.

To date, the Commission has received no additional communications via mail or telephone either in
opposition or support of the requested text amendments.

CONCLUSION

The CPC recommends approval of the accompanying text changes related zoning classi?cations.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

(aton/g/XJ/

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachment

cc: Maurice Cox, Director PDD
Dave Walker, Western District Design Director, PDD
Karen Gage, PDD
Esther Yang, PDD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

SUMMARY

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Sec. 61-8-102 to strike ?bus
rapid transit, streetcar trolley, or light rail line? and add ?a high?frequency transit corridor;? by
amending Secs. 61-9-15, 61-9-35, and 61-12-22 to allow for governmental service agency in B1
(Restricted Business District) and B2 (Local Business and Residential District) zoning
classi?cations; by amending Sec. 61?11-126 to allow for other governmental agencies or non-
pro?t agencies with duly recognized authority over land zoned PR to engage in incidental and
accessory retail sales; by amending Secs. 61-11?166, 61-11-172, 61-11-186, 61-12-42, and 61-12-
227 to allow for assembly hall, banquet hall, and rental hall uses in (Special Development
District Small-Scale, Mixed Use) and SD2 (Special Development District Mixed Use) zoning
classi?cations; and by amending Sec. 61-13-69 to remove the maximum lot coverage requirement
for mixed-use development on land zoned 

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Sec. 61-8-102 to strike ?bus
rapid transit, streetcar trolley, or light rail line? and add ?a high-frequency transit corridor;? by
amending Secs. 61-9-15, 61-9-35, and 61-12-22 to allow for governmental service agency in B1
(Restricted Business District) and B2 (Local Business and Residential District) zoning
classi?cations; by amending Sec. 61-11-126 to allow for other governmental agencies or non-
pro?t agencies with duly recognized authority over land zoned PR to engage in incidental and
accessory retail sales; by amending Secs. 61-11-166, 61-11-172, 61-1 l-186, 61?12-42, and 61?12?
227 to allow for assembly hall, banquet hall, and rental hall uses in (Special Development
District Small-Scale, Mixed Use) and SD2 (Special Development District Mixed Use) zoning
classi?cations; and by amending Sec. 61-13-69 to remove the maximum lot coverage requirement
for mixed-use development on land zoned 

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly known as the
Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended by amending Secs. 61?8-102, 61-9-15, 61?9-35, 61-11-126,

61-11-166, 61-11-172, 61-11-186, 6l-l2-22, 61-12?42, 61?12-227, and 61-13-69 as follows:

CHAPTER 61. ZONING

ARTICLE RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS

DIVISION 6. R5 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 61-8-102. Conditional retail, service, and commercial uses.

(1) Bed and breakfast inn

(2) Hotel

(3) Motel

(4) Parking structure

(5) Private club, lodge, or similar use, non-pro?t

(6) Retail sales and personal service in multiple-residential structures, as provided for in Sec. 61?12?231

of this Code
(7) School building adaptive reuses?retail, service, and commercial
(8) Youth hostel/ hostel

(9) All of those uses speci?ed in Sec. 61-11-166 of this Code where located on a zoning lot within one-

half mile of

 

:1 hi hit-rec uenc_~' transit corridor

 

(10) The following uses, occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of gross floor area and not having
drive-up or drive?through facilities, where located in a building constructed prior to January 1, 2017

and located on a zoning lot not farther than one?half mile from 

HWHoHev?oehthaH?Ei? :1 high?frequency transit corridor, strictly limited to:

 

(A) Animal-grooming shop

(B) Art gallery

(C) Automated teller machine not accessory to another use on the same zoning lot
(D) Bank

(E) Bake shop, retail

(F) Business college or commercial trade school, other than truck driving school
(G) Office, business or professional

(H) Personal service establishments, as de?ned in Sec. 61-16-151 of this Code

(I) Printing or engraving shops
(I) Radio, television, or household appliance repair shop

(K) Restaurants, carry?out and restaurants, fast?food and restaurants, standard as de?ned in Sec. 61?16-

162 of this Code, without beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises

(L) School or studio of dance, gymnastics, music, art, or cooking
(M) Tattoo and/ or piercing parlor

(N) Veterinary clinic for small animals

ARTICLE IX. BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICTS

DIVISION 2. B1 RESTRICTED BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 61-9-15. By-right public, civic, and institutional uses.

(1) Adult day care center

(2) Child care center

(3) Educational institution

 

or hospice

(531g) Library

(6X1) Museum

Neighborhood center, nonpro?t

Outdoor recreation facility

Religious institution

School, elementary, middle junior high, or high

ARTICLE IX. BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICTS

DIVISION 3. 32 LOCAL BUSINESS AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 61-9-35. By-right public, civic, and institutional uses.
(1) Adult day care center

(2) Child care center

(3) Educational institution

(4) Governmental agency
Hospital or hospice
(SQ) Library

Museum

Neighborhood center, nonpro?t

Outdoor art exhibition grounds; sculpture gardens
(SHE) Outdoor recreation facility

Religious institu?on

Schools, elementary, middle junior high, or high

ARTICLE XI. SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS AND

OVERLAY AREAS

DIVISION 7. PR PARKS AND RECREACTION

Sec. 61-11-126. By-right retail, service, and commercial uses.
(1) Commercial recreation facilities, outdoor and indoor, subject to Sec. 61-11-136 of this Code and

upon resolution of City Council.



(2) Retail sales clearly incidental and accessory to uses permitted in the PR district, such as food service

concession stands under contract to the Recreation Department or other governmental agency or non-

rolit a rent.- with rlul reco Lized authoritv over the land zoned PR.

 

ARTICLE XI. SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS AND

OVERLAY AREAS

DIVISION 9. DEVELOPMENT 
MIXED-USE

Sec. 61-11-166. By-right retail, service, and commercial uses.

(1) Animal-grooming shop

(2) Art gallery

(3) hall

Automated teller machine without drive?up, drive-through facilities

BBQ) Bake shop, retail

Banks without drive?up or drive?through facilities

(7) Banquet hall

Barber or beauty shop

(HQ) Brewpub or microbrewery or small distillery or small winery, not exceeding three thousand (3,000)
square feet and not located adjacent to or across an alley from a lot containing a single? or two-family
dwelling that is located on a street other than a major thoroughfare

Dry cleaning, laundry, or Laundromat

Establishment for the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises, not
exceeding three thousand (3,000) square feet and not located adjacent to or across an alley from a lot
containing a single? or two?family dwelling that is located on a street other than a major thoroughfare

Medical or dental clinic, physical therapy clinic, or massage therapy clinic

{-l-Hm Nail salon

Of?ce, business or professional

H??lj) Parking lots or parking areas, accessory for operable private passenger vehicles, not farther than
the maximum distance speci?ed in ARTICLE XIV, DIVISION 1 of this Chapter.

Pet shop

(-l?fn??LPrinting or engraving shops not exceeding four thousand (4,000) square feet of gross floor area
with a minimum of ten percent of the gross floor area being used as a retail store for the sale of
the goods produced

studio or photo studio or video studio, no assembly hall

61?73(19) Recreation, indoor commercial and health club

 

carry-out or fast-food, without drive-up or drive-through facilities
standard, without drive-up or drive-through facilities not located adjacent to or
across an alley from a lot containing a single? or two?family dwelling that is located on a street other than
a major thoroughfare

W?SchooI or studio of dance, gymnastics, music, art or cooking

repair shop

of a generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new
merchandise, without drive?up or drive-through facilities

Veterinary clinic for small animals

ARTICLE XI. SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS AND

OVERLAY AREAS

DIVISION 9. DEVELOPMENT 

MIXED-USE

Sec. 61-11-172. Conditional retail, service, and commercial uses.

(1) Bed and breakfast inn

(2) Brewpub or microbrewery or small distillery or small winery that exceeds three thousand (3,000)
square feet or that is located adjacent to or across an alley from a lot containing a single? or two?family
dwelling that is located on a street other than a major thoroughfare

(3) Establishment for the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises that
exceeds three thousand (3,000) square feet or that is located adjacent to or across an alley from a lot
containing a single? or two-family dwelling that is located on a street other than a major thoroughfare

(4) Hotel

(5) Kennel, commercial

(6) Parking lots or parking areas, commercial and accessory parking farther than the maximum distance
specified in ARTICLE XIV, DIVISION 1 of this Chapter

(7) Parking structure having at least sixty percent of the ground ?oor level facade abutting a public
street dedicated to commercial space or other space oriented to pedestrian traf?c

(8) Pool or billiard hall

(9) Private club, lodge, or similar use

(10) Radio or television station

(11) Radio, television, or household appliance repair shop

(12) Rental hall that exceeds square feet

Restaurant, standard located adjacent to or across an alley from a lot containing a single? or two-
family dwelling that is located on a street other than a major thoroughfare

(me Secondhand store and secondhand jewelry store

Specially designated distributor?s (SDD) or specially designated merchant?s (SDM) establishment
(453%) Theater, excluding concert caf? and drive?in theater, not exceeding one hundred ?fty (150) fixed

563.138

Youth hostel/ hostel

ARTICLE XI. SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS AND

OVERLAY AREAS

DIVISION 10. DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT, MIXED-USE

Sec. 61-11-186. By-right retail, service, and commercial uses.
(1) Animal?grooming shop
(2) Art gallery

(3) Assembly hall

Automated teller machine not accessory to another use on the same zoning lot, which is stand-

alone, without drive-up or drive?through facilities

Bake shop, retail

Bank without drive?up or drive-through facilities

"1 Banquet hall

(6&1 Barber or beauty shop

69(2) Brewpub or microbrewery or small distillery or small winery

Dry cleaning, laundry, or laundromat

Establishment for the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises
gem; Medical or dental clinic, physical therapy clinic, or massage therapy clinic

Mortuary or funeral home, including those containing a crematory

Nail salon

Of?ce, business or professional

Parking lots or parking areas, accessory, for operable private passenger vehicles, not farther than

the maximum distance speci?ed in ARTICLE XIVDIVISION 1 of this Chapter

Pet shop

gram Printing or engraving shops not exceeding ?ve thousand (5,000) square feet of gross floor area
with a minimum of ten percent of the gross floor area being used as a retail store for the sale of

the goods produced

Radio or television station

Recording studio or photo studio or video studio, no assembly hall
Recreation, indoor commercial and health club, excluding golf dome

[22) Rental 11:11]

{72-93% Restaurant, carry-out or fast-food, located in a multi?story building and integrated into a mixed?

use or multi-tenant development, and without drive-up or drive?through facilities
Restaurant, standard without drive-up or drive-through facilities
{223(25) Retail sales and personal service in business and professional of?ces

Retail sales and personal service in multiple?residential structures, as provided for in Sec. 61?12-

231 of this Code

{2-9871 School or studio of dance, gymnastics, music, art, or cooking

Shoe repair shop

{263129) Stores of a generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new

merchandise, without drive-up or drive?through facilities

10

 Theater, excluding concert caf? and drive-in theaters, not exceeding one hundred ?fty (150)

fixed seats

Veterinary clinic for small animals

ARTICLE XII. USE REGULATIONS

DIVISION 1. USE TABLE

11

 

 

Use Category

Speci?c Land Use

 

Residential

Business

Industrial

Special and Overlay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


234

 

 

Em


 

 

 

 

 

 

 



A

 

 




 

 

 



1

 



2

 



3

mam


 

 

 

Standards
General
(Art. XII,

Div. 2)
Speci?c
(Art. XII,

Div. 3)

 

Subdivision C.

Public, Civic and Institutional Uses

 

 

Sec. 61 -1 2-22.

Community service.

Customs of?ce

 

Fire or police station, post of?ce, court
house, and similar public building

Sec. 61-12-
136

 

Governmental service agency





D:
II

 

Neighborhood center, nonpro?t

Sec. 61 -1 2-
138

 

Substance abuse service facility

 

GRT
Sec. 61?12?
141

 

 

All other

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subdivision D.

Retail, Service and Commercial Uses

 

Sec. 61-12-42.
Assembly.

Assembly hall

Oil
Oil

Sec. 61-12-
155

 

Banquet hall

DCI


 

Dance hall+ public


Sec.61-12-
160

 

Private club. lodger or similar use

Sec. 61-12-
224

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sec. 61-12-


nil
5  LEI

Rental hall 

 

All other 3304343

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13

 

ARTICLE XII. USE REGULATIONS

DIVISION 3. GENERAL USE STANDARDS
Subdivision E. Retail, Service and Commercial Uses; Generally,
con?nued
Sec. 61-12-227. Rental halls.

Rental halls shall be subject to the following provisions:

(1) Rental halls shall be prohibited within ?ve hundred (500) feet of land zoned R1residential PD. Said prohibition shall be waived upon presentation to the Buildings, Safety
Engineering and Environmental Department of a veri?ed petition requesting such waiver, signed
by two?thirds 3) of those person owning, residing, or doing business on land, other than vacant
land that is designated by the City Assessor as ?unimproved,? within ?ve hundred (500) feet of the

proposed location;

(2) In the Central Business District, rental halls shall be prohibited within one thousand (1,000) feet of

any other rental hall or public dance hall; and
(3) Rental halls are subject to the licensing requirements of Chapter 46 of this Code; ELIE

Rental halls. not exceeding 3 {100 square feet are permitted lav-right. in the SDI District; rental balls
that exceed 3.00? square feet are permitted on a conditional basis in 31-31. This provision may not be

waived by the Board of Zoning .-*tppeals.

ARTICLE INTENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS

DIVISION 1. TABLES OF INTENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS

Subdivision G. Special Purpose Zoning Districts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Minimum Lot . .
. . Minimum Setbacks (feet) Max.
Use Dimen5ions Height Max. Lot Max Add"-
Area Width Coverage FAR Regs.
Front Side* Rear
(Sq ft) (feet) (feet)
Section Sec. 61- Sec. 61- Sec. 61- Sec. 61- Sec. 61-13-156 Sec.
Reference 59" 61 "3 142 16-172 16-172 13-151 13-152 61-13-157
Sec. 61-13-69 SD1.
Gas regulator
stations,
electric
transformer See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
stations, 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
telephone
exchange
buildings.
Establishment
for the sale of
beer or
intoxicating See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
liquor for 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
consumption
on the
premises
Fraternity or 7000 70 See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
sorority houses 6141-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
How? 7000 70 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
Libraries or 10000 70 See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
museums 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
Marinas 20 20 56.031143-
Multiple-family See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
dwellings 7000 70 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 (0'07 RSR)
:leeriligbfr-hood 7000 70 See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
. 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
(nonprofit)
Outdoor
recreation Sec. 
. . . 131
facilities
Article XIV,
Parking lots or See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. Division 1,
parking areas 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 Subdivision
I
Parking See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. Sec. 61-13-
structures 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 103
Personal
See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
. . 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
as defined in
Sec. 61-16-151
Radio, See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
television, or 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175

 

15

 

 

household

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appuance
repair shop
. . See See:
Religious See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
institutions 10000 70 61-11-175 61-11-175 Sf??1f7?15- 61-11-175
Residential use
combined in 50, not to
structures with exceed 4
. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. .
permitted stories;
(first floor175 See: Sec.
commercial 61-11-175
uses
Restaurants See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
Rooming See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
houses 7?00 7? 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 (0'07 RSR)
See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
5Ch??l5 10000 70 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
Single-family 4 ft
dwellings; minimum/
religious 5000 50 20 14 ft 30 35
residential combined
facilities
Specially
3:133:33: See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
(SDD)
establishment
Specially
?g??g?ii See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
(SDM)
establishment
Stores of a
generally
recognized
retail nature See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
whose primary 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175
business is the
sale of new
merchandise
Town houses 61-13-
(attached 7000 70 20 FormulaA 30 35 1.50 '106
group)
Agricultural See: Sec.
uses 61-12-329 sec' 61'1??
50, not to
exceed 4
. See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec. . 
Aum?xed use 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 Stor?es? 35
See: Sec.
61-11-175
All other uses
See: Sec. See: Sec. See: Sec.
Othertha? 700? 7? 61-11-175 61-11-175 61-11-175 35
mixed use

 

 

16

 

10

_11

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication in
accordance with MCL 125.3401(6) and Section 4?118, paragraph 3, of the 2012 Detroit City
Charter.

Approved as to Form Only:

 

Lawrence IT. Garcia

Corporation Counsel

l7

33"

Alton James ?tit? at Ettr? it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vice Chair/Swear, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory pawlo?wski
Msrcell R. Todd Jr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
?emf Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

June 7, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of the Detroit Building Authority for PC (Public Center) Special District Review of
proposed demolition of 25?33 Washington Blvd. Joe Louis Arena (RECOMMEND
APPROVAL)

REQUEST

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received a request from the Detroit Building Authority for PC
(Public Center) Special District Review of proposed demolition of 25-33 Washington Blvd. Joe Louis
Arena. This request is being made consistent with the provisions of Section 61 -3-182 of the Detroit Zoning
Ordinance.

BACKGROUND

As You are aware, part of the City?s bankruptcy agreement included the demolition of Joe Louis Arena.
Although numerous details of the demolition have been reviewed and approved by Your Honorable Body,
including the acceptance of funds from the state for the purpose of demolition, for the brown?eld plan and
the bond resolution, PC Special District Review is also required per Section 61?11-76 of the Zoning
Ordinance as the proposed demolition is an exterior alteration.

REVIEW ANALYSIS

PC District Review Criteria

There are eighteen PC District Review Criteria listed in Section 61-11-77 of the Zoning Ordinance. As this
is a demolition and does not involve any construction or development, the review criteria do not apply.

RECOMMENDATION

CPC staff recommends approval of the proposed demolition of Joe Louis Arena consistent with prior
approvals by Your Honorable Body. Any future redevelopment of the subject site will return for review
and approval.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON



IIJ

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

1" A

ll

PERMIT 




0) i emperors Presser memesrron

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CITY OF 
BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, ROOM 409, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
Expedited Plan Review Request (subject to additional fees) Date: 57/ 
Property Information ?7 5/3 -
Address: FIDOFZ Suite#: Stories:
AKA: LOU, A NA Lotis): Subdivision: ASS FARM
Parcel Total Acres: Lot Width: Lot Depth:
Current Legal Use of Property: Proposed Use: 
Are there any existing buildings or structures on this parcel? EYes No

 

Project Information

PermitType

New [:IAlteration Addition? Demolition [DCorrectViolations El Foundation Only El Temporary Use
Change of Use Other:

Revision to Original Permit it: (original permit has been issued and is active)

 

 

Deecription of Work (Describe in detail proposed work and use of property, attach work list)

orL (BLDG.

 

[El MBC USE change No MBC use change
Included Improvements (Check all applicable; these trade areas require separate permit applications)
EHVAC/Mechanical Electrical Plumbing Fire Sprinkler System Fire Alarm
Structure Type
El New Building Existing Structure Tenant Space [ElGarage/Accessory Building El Other
Size of Structure to be Demolished )2 75%. 7'57 ego 6? ?5 f, goat cubic feet

 

 

 

 

Construction involves changes to the floor plan? interior demolition or constructing new walls) Yes No
Use Group: Type of Construction (per current Ml Code Table 601):

Estimated Cost of Construction 55 :5

Structure Use E?C?mcmr E?Dm'mm

Residential-Number of Units: El Office?Gross Floor Area: industrial-Gross Floor Area:

El Commercial-Gross Floor Area: Institutional-Gross Floor Area: EOther-Gross Floor Area: 
Proposed no. of employees: List materials to be stored in the building:

 

PLOT PLAN SHALL BE submitted on separate sheets and shall Show all easements and measurements (must be correct and in detail).
SHOW ALL streets abutting lot, indicate front of lot, show all buildings, existing and proposed distances to lot lines.

 

 

 

  
 

 

(Building Permit Application Continues on Next Page)
. ?e?rmu?tnsw 
. . 
intake by: - Date. 69/? Fees Due: i:]No

 

 

Permit Description ,4 MA pry/435,92 ?ve/?9 ?57,767 
(74 4. ?g Arm/V45)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current Legal Land Use: Preposed Us?: 
Permit#: Date Permit Issued: (7'79 Y6 Permit Cost: (of [3750"?
Zoning District: WC: Zoning Grant(s): Lots Combined? i: Yes No (area, zoning clearance) 55"; 
Revised Cost (revised permit applications only) Old New 95 
STRUCTURAL: "mores:

ZONING: DATE: NOTES:

 

 

0TH ER: DEPT: DATE:

 

 

2/16/2015

BUILIDENG PERMET APPLECBTEQN
CITY OF person BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT Page 2

 

 

identi?cation (All Fields Required)

 

 

 

 

 

property Owner/Homeowner Property Owner/Homeowner is Permit Applicant

Name: A Company Name: ETIEDIT El LCM-LI. AUT HORITV
Address: l30l THIRD 31:, 5:95.313 City: SiateiML Zip: 4:5 are
Phone: 3 3 - 224-. '72 3 (C3 Mobile:

Driver's License#: Email:

 

 

Contractor 's PermitAppIicant 
?2 I Company Name: ADA MO CLRO UP
Address: 37.0 . (LIE RD. City: DETROIT Stateziulr Zip: 4 8203
phone-3Mobile: Ema?: I corsair/D rr Mop? cam/I
City of Detroit Licensed: 1 - 1 2 


Representative Name:

 

 

 

Tenant or Business Occupant Tenant is Permit Applicant

Name: Phone: Email:

 

 

Architect/ Engineer/Consultant El Architect/Engineer/ConsulLant is Permit Applicant

 

 

 

Name: State Registrationit: Expiration Date:
Address: City: State: Zip:
Phone: Mobile: Email:

 

 

 

Homeowner Affidavit (Only required for residential permits obtained by homeowner.)

I hereby certify that I am the legal owner and occupant of the subject property and the work described on this
permit application shall be completed by me. I am familiar with the applicable codes and requirements of the City
of Detroit and take full responsibility for all code compliance, fees and inspections related to the installation/work
herein described. I shall neither hire nor sub-contract to any other person, firm or corporation any portion of the
work covered by this building permit.

 

 

 

Print Name: Signatu re: Date:

Homeowner
and swam to before me this day of 20 A.D. County, Michigan
Signature: My commission expires:

Notary Public

 

 

 

Permit prlicant Signature

I hereby certify that the information on this application is true and correct. I have reviewed all deed restrictions that
may apply to this construction and am aware of my responsibilty thereunder. I certify that the proposed work is
authorized by the owner of record and I have been authorized to make this application as the property owneris)
authorized agent. Further I agree to conform to all applicable laws and ordinances ofjurisdiction. IAM AWARE
THAT A PERMIT WILL EXPIRE WHEN NO INSPECTIONS ARE REQUESTED AND CONDUCTED WITHIN 180 DAYS OF
THE DATE OF ISSUANCE OR THE DATE OF THE PREVIOUS INSPECTION AND HAT EXPIRED PERMITS CANNOT BE

Print Name: stint?1 IBSignature: rli/ yl'fyliur of {ltd Ll, 1] Date: 395?- [If

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

 

 

511?
Driver's License#: Expiration: M??f??wjr
Subscribed and sum "obefore me this ?l f? il?fjl?lf I'll!? 20 A.D. "l K/f' ES {Wit 
Signaturctd {3 ?if? 7/431 expires: f?l-F' ij/ its: 01:9.
'1 Nolan: J?Tio 

 

 


Section 23a of the state construction code act of 1972. 1972PA230 MCL 125.1523A prohibits a person from cinspiring to 3 Elm-H 
circumvent the licensing requirements of this state relating to persons who are to perform work on a residential In Abe [a "a
residential structure Violators of Section 23a are subject to civil ?nes. .. gaff: ?lit-yo; .3
?o 




 

 

 

 

 


J:
a
"humus!

 

WW

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 1
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

   

 

 

June 06,2019 JUN 0 5 2'19

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Annual HOME, CDBG, NSP Awards
Addition to Award Peterboro Arms

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit through the Housing and Revitalization Department makes
annual funding available for "ready-to-proceed projects" from HOME, CDBG and NSF federal
funds allocated to the City through the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development
HRD has continued to work closely with HUD to meet required commitment and
disbursement deadlines for ongoing projects approved by the City.

In support of affordable housing opportunities, HRD is hereby requesting approval to increase the
funding of a previously approved project as follows:

1. Peterboro Arms (Additional $1,000,000) $532,000 in additional HOME funds and
$468,000 from the Affordable Housing Development Preservation Fund will be spent
on this project to cover increased construction costs and a reduction in pricing for Historic
Tax Credits being used for the project.

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution that (1) approves the
aforementioned loan increase and (2) authorizes the Director of HRD to execute such loan
documents as may be necessary or convenient to complete the transaction.

 

Res ectfu] 1y submitted,

  

 

 

 

Donald Rencher
Director

 

Attachments

cc: 8, Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
K. Vickers, Associate Director of Housing Underwriting

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, City of Detroit through the Housing and Revitalization Department
makes annual funding available for "ready-to-proceed projects" from HOME, CDBG
and NSF federal funds allocated to the City through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the purpose of creating affordable housing opportunities; and

WHEREAS, the City has previously approved allocations of HOME funds to the Peterboro Arms
Project for a total amount of $1,250,000 with the authority to vary such amount by not more or
less than 10% (?Previous Loan Amount?); and

WHEREAS, the City has increased the Previous Loan Amount by 10% to a total amount of
$1,375,000 pursuant to the above referenced authority; and

WHEREAS, the City now desires to further increase the Previous Loan Amount by $1,000,000
to a total amount of $2,375,000 consistent with the attached Exhibit 1: Changes to Existing HOME,
CDBG and NSF Awards incorporated herein (?Exhibit now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves an increase of the Previous Loan Amount
by $1,000,000 to a total loan amount of $2,375,000 for the Peterboro Arms Project consistent with
Exhibit 1; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves use of $532,000 from
Appropriation No. 10821 (HOME) and $468,000 from Appropriation No. 20518 (Affordable
Housing Development Preservation Fund) towards the approved increase of $1,000,000 to the
Peterboro Arms Project; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the HRD Director, or his designee, is authorized to process, prepare, and
execute any and all loan and grant documents necessary or convenient to close, secure and use
HOME and CDBG funds according to HUD regulations consistent with the awards in Exhibit 1;
and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the Budget and Finance Directors are hereby authorized to increase the
necessary accounts and honor expenditures, vouchers and payrolls when presented in accordance
with the foregoing communication and standard City procedures.

A Waiver of Reconsideration is requested.

Exhibit 1: Changes to Existing HOME, CDBG, and NSF Awards

New Awards, Loan Modi?cations and/or Loan Subordinations (Various Developers)

 

DEVELOPER 0R

BORROWER PROJECT DESCRIPTION

TOTAL
PROJECT ACTION DEVELOPMENT
COST

ORIGINAL New or Revised
ALLOCATION ALLOCATION

COMMENTS

 

 

Peterboro Arms
Peterboro Arms LHDA LP 26 Peterboro
26 Peterboro Detroit, MI 48201
Detroit, MI 48201 56 units
100% affordable

 

 

Increase the supportive housing
0'0 0000000

. In an
$468,000 in Affordable Housing $19,199,234 $1,375,000 HOME $468,000 AH 
Development and Preservation 52.375000 TOTAL
Fund

 

 

 

 

Due to signi?cant increases in
construction costs and
reduction in pricing for

Historic Tax Credits. the
project incurred a $1 .7MM
gap in ?nancing. Non-pro?t

Coalition on Temporary

Shelters (COTS) provided a
temporary bridge loan in
order for the project to close.

 

 

 
 




 

City of Detroit Coleman A Young Municipal Center
Department of Public Works 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 611
Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224-3901


June 6, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 845: Friend and Associate, 501 Monroe, requests permission to provide Outdoor Caf?
Service. This service will be seasonal, and will convene April 15t through November 30th, yearly with
yearly administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body's approval.

 

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction overtemporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance ofthe
annual use?permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. No outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given bythe
City Council towards the above?referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner?s compliance with provided instructions.

The Detroit Police Department has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

it is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 1St through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WM

Chisara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

 

City of Detroit Coleman A Young Municipal Center
Department of Public Works 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 611
Detroit, MI 48226

(313) 224-3901



PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in order to regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter of the caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location ofthe outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division,- and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtures shall be removed from the public right-of?way during
the months of non-operation and placed in storage; and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy of this Resolution shall be recorded with the Office of the Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the ?permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays-

Qti?tp of. $etmit

Janice M. INin?'ey OFFICE OF THE CLERK {Batten West
City Oak Deputy City Clerk/ChiefofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, April 24, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petitiOn is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

845 Patricia Chylinskz', request a Seasonal Outdoor Cafe? Permit for 501-511
Monroe.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
[313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 224-1466

 PF ?5?le

HOUSING REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 908, Detroit, MI 48226

(313) 224-5330 CITY OF DETROIT
APPLICATION FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR CAFE PERMIT:

NOTE: ALL APPLICANTS MUST SUBMIT ZONING CLEARANCE WITH THIS FORM BEFORE YOU CAN BEGIN OUTDOOR

CAFE PROCESS. PLEASE PROCEED TO BSEED ZONING SECTION, SUITE 401.

 

INFORMATION:

90mm 3:3 mam 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NAME) . (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS)
Q0556. I4 Woods 
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)
INFORMATION: 
?ame; Pawn; ?3 Ia 31m Phel 
NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS) 
50( Mon roe. Dewar?? Nb): 5? 
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)
OUTDOOR CAFE INFORMATION: NAME) 1%?ch ?6748
60l? :ll Monroe Daron? Li was
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

 

TYPE OF OUTDOOR CAFE: PROCEED To SUITE 908
PERMANENT- PROCEED T0 ENGINEERING, SUITE 642

El ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY - PROCEED To BSEED, SUITE 401
WILL OUTDOOR CAFE BE: OPEN ENCLOSED FIXED AWNING

DO YOU SERVE YEs NO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT USE 
APPROVED BY: DATE:
DENIED BY: DATE:
COMMENTS:

 

 

 

 

REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH APPLICATION (HARD COPY OR PDF):

1. 11?x17? Site Plan of1?=10? Scale, depicting dimensions of seating area and its setbacks from the street curb
and any obstructions in the right-Of-way, parking meter, tree trunk and light pole). A Location Map with
the north arrow of the subject site should be provided on the site plan.

2. 11?x17? Floor Plan of 1/8" or Scale, showing layout of the tables and Chairs, service corridor
dimensions and location. In addition, Show elevation, type and height of fencing including fastening details.

3. 11" 17? Elevation Plan Scale, and photos for section ofthe right-of?way and building in question.
(See Attached Sample Plans)


I 
I 

r1

- 


WRITTEN ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF
DETROIT CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
PETITION NUMBER ADOPTED

LLC 13? anacici??d'c?mie! [JR/mar 
address is 50/ Df?l?f?f?f; (/9944 7

 

(hereinafter referred to as the ?Permittee?) do hereby accept the terms and conditions of
the City Council Resolution granting Petition Number and agrees to
comply with its requirements; and further, that pursuant to the said Resolution, Permittee
does hereby agree to defend. indemnify and save harmless the City of Detroit from any
and all claims, liabilities, obligations, penalties, costs, charges, demands, losses,
damages, or expenses {including without limitation, fees. and expenses of attorneys,
expert witness and other consultants} that may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted
against the City of Detroit or its departments, of?cers, employees, or agents by reason of
the issuance of said permit(s), or the performance or non-performance by the Permittee of
the terms of the permit(s) hereof, or that may rise out of its activities described in said

Resolution by Permittee and its personnel, agents, representatives and employees.

Permittee agrees to waive, release and discharge the City of Detroit or its departments,
of?cers, employees, or agents from any and all liability, claims, demands, and causes of
action whatsoever, legal and equitable, because of damages, losses, or injuries to
Permittee or Permittee?s property or both, arising from or related to Permittee?s activities
described in said Resolution. Permittee agrees and covenants not to sue the City of

Detroit or its departments, of?cers, employees, or agents, and to refrain from instituting,

Seasonal Outdoor Cafe? Page 1 of 2
(IndemnAgreeCofDLawDep._ 7)

continuing, presenting, subrogating, collecting or in any way aiding or proceeding upon
any claims, judgments, debts, causes of action, suits and proceedings of any kind at law

or in equity arising from or related to Permittee?s activities described in said Resolution.

 

 

Wherefore, we have hereunto set our hands on this day of
. 20

Witnessed By:

Permittee:

 

STATE. OF MICHIGAN 
}ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE 
On this day of before me, a Notary Public

in and for said County, appeared to me

 

known personally, who being duly sworn, did say that he is the

 

of and that the Written
Acceptance of the Term and Conditions of the City of Council Resolution Approving

Petition No. . adopted on was signed on behalf of said

 

corporation by authority of its Board of Directors.

 

Notary Public

Seasonal Outdoor Cafe? Page 2 of 2
7)

.LS NVIHHVHEI

a

 

 



   

rum: 1? SEATING AKBAR- 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Ems-rm 91511:: 75mm an;

o: PA 
a; EXISING PAVERS P,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BGSIINGCURB

MONROE ST.

SITE PLAN



 

4/16/19

mt! dill KITIRST FLOOR PLAN


 

 

 

 

.
.9.
0}
II 

.

- - 



511 Kenn?. Ilium-T IT nr-mnu-l Fl. Flu-s

?lulu In' I1.
nut-Jinn.) 

 

330.1
377 ?aomow {413/377 ?saguadwd ?add?
391137 01 :uampuawy

 

City of Detroit Coleman A Young Municipal Center
Department of Public Works 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 611
Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224?3901


June 7, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 426: Cobb Corner LLC, 4201 Cass Ave, requests permission to provide Outdoor Caf?
Service. This service will be seasonal, and will convene April 15t through November yearly with
yearly administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body?s approval.

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction over temporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance ofthe
annual use-permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. No outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given by the
City Council towards the above-referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Historic District Commission has issued the Certificate of Appropriateness for this location as of May
17, 2019.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner?s compliance with provided instructions.

The Detroit Police Department has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

It is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 15t through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,



Chisara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

 

City of Detroit Coleman A Young Municipal Center
Department of Public Works 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 611
Detroit, MI 48226

(313) 224-3901



PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in order to regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter of the caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location ofthe outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division; and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtures shall be removed from the public right-of?way during
the months of non-operation and placed in storage; and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy ofthis Resolution shall be recorded with the Office ofthe Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the ?permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays-

(titty of. Eztrnit

Janice M. W'nfrer OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Vivia'i Hudson
City Clerk Deputy City Clair

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Friday, June 29, 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From." Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

426 Cobb Corner Bar LLC, request for a seasonal Outdoor Cafe? Permit for 4201
Cass Ave.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center . Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 224?1466

HOUSING REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 908, Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224-6380

 
   

0! 
DETROIT

APPLICATION FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR CAFE PERMIT:

INFORMATION:
CORNER- bkE LLC 24-36% 4474 ROBERT Bum come, 6 HCDM

 

NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS)
DETROIT MICH 4510'
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

INFORMATION:
120M ET A ?anew 

 

(OWNER ?5 NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS)
4?20) (A55 481M
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STA TE) (ZIP)

OUTDOOR CAFE INFORMATION:

?Amve:
NAME)

 

(CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

 

TYPE OF OUTDOOR CAFE: IZISEASONAL (SUBMIT TO SUITE 908)
PERMANENT (SUBMIT T0 ENGINEERING, SUITE 642)

ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY (SUBMIT To BSEED, SUITE 401)
WILL PROPOSED OUTDOOR CAFE BE: OPEN Er ENCLOSED FIXED AWNING 

DO YOU SERVE YES IZI NO 

20:5

SIGNATURE) (DATE)

 

 

 

DEPARTMENT USE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPROVED BY: DATE:
DENIED BY: DATE:
COMM ENTS:

 

 

REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH APPLICATION (HARD COPY OR PDFI:

 

1. 11"x17" Site Plan of1?=10? Scale, depicting dimensions of seating area and its setbacks from the street curb and
any obstructions in the right-of-way, parking meter, tree trunk and light pole). A Location Map with the
north arrow of the subject site Shouid be provided on the site pIan. *See Attached Sample Plans* 

 

2. 11"x17" Floor and Elevation Plans of 1/8? or Scale, showing layout of the tables and chairs, service
corridor dimensions and location. in addition, show type and height of fencing including fastening details, and
photos/images of the type offencing/gote and street furnitgre that win he instoIIed.L_ y, .4 . 

3. Provide Photos for the section of the right?of-wav and building in question.

(rev. 02-2018)

 

 

 

   

(?var
DETROIT

 

City of Detroit Coleman A Young Municipal Center
Department of Public Works 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 611
Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224-3901


June 7, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. #26: Cobb Corner LLC. 4201 Cass Ave, requests permission to provide Outdoor Caf?
Service. This service will be seasonal, and will convene April 1St through November yearly with
yearly administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body?s approval.

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction over temporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance of the
annual use-permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. N0 outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given by the
City Council towards the above-referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Historic District Commission has issued the Certificate of Appropriateness for this location as of May
17, 2019.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner?s compliance with provided instructions.

The Detroit Police Department has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

It is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 1St through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WM

Chisara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

 
 

cm or
DETROIT


 

City of Detroit Coleman A Young Municipal Center
Department of Public Works 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 611
Detroit, Mi 48226

(313) 224?3901



PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in order to regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter ofthe caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location of the outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division,- and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtures shall be removed from the public right-of-way during
the months of non-operation and placed in storage,- and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy ofthis Resolution shall be recorded with the Office ofthe Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the ?permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays-

