"Papa/rag?
(0/95/10)

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONI: 3 I 3-21?1455?

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313.33.1.55?5

LAW DEPARTMENT Damul . mw

 

 

June 20, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Proposed Ordinance to Amend Chapter 50 0f the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing,
Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming, and Renaming of Streets and
Assigning Secondary Names to Streets, by Adding Division 3, Secondary Street
Signs.

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the request of City Council Member James Tate, the above-referenced
ordinance is being submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. This proposed ordinance
will amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places,
Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming of Streets
and Assigning Secondary Names to Streets, by adding Division 3, Secondary Street Signs, which
consists of Section 50-7-21 through Section 50-7-46, to provide a process for the assignment of
secondary street signs, either by petition or by City Council initiative; to provide criteria for
eligibility for the assignment of a secondary street sign; to provide timing requirements for the
process of assigning a secondary street sign; to establish the duties of the Of?ce of the City Clerk,
Legislative Policy Division, and Department of Public Works in relation to the assignment of
secondary street signs; to establish costs to be charged for the application for and installation of a
secondary street sign; and to establish a limit for the quantity of secondary street signs that may be
assigned within a calendar year

We are available to answer any questions that you may have regarding the proposed
ordinance. Thank you for your consideration.

Respectfully submi ed,

.1 4? r' (3/qu
,Li/ - it: 

Alex Henderson
Assistant Corporation Counsel

Enclosure

 A 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks
and Other Public Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, widening, Vacating, Naming
and Renaming of Streets and Assigning Secondary Names to Streets, by adding Division 3,
Secondary Street Signs, Section 50-7-21, Assignment of secondary street signs permitted; Section
50-7?22, Location of secondary street signs; Section 50?7?23, Maintenance of secondary street
signs; Section 50-7-24, Removal of secondary street signs; Section 50-7-25, Limit on quantity of
secondary street signs assigned per year; Section 50-7-31, Oj?cial petition form required; Section
50-7-32, Procedure; Section 50-7-33, Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to provide notice;
Section 50-7?34, Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to prepare report; Section 50-7-35,
Public hearing; Section 50?7-36, Resolution by City Council authorizing secondary street sign;
Section 50-7-37, Duties of the Department of Public Works; Section 50-7-41, Procedurefor City
Council initiative; Section 50-7-42, Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to provide notice
regarding assignment of secondary street sign through City Council initiative; Section 50-7-43,
Report by the Legislative Policy Division regarding assignment of secondary street name through
City Council initiative; Section 50-7-44, Public hearing regarding assignment of secondary street
name through City Council initiative; Section 50-7-45, Resolution by City Council authorizing
secondary street name; and Section 50?7-46, Duties of the Department of Public Works regarding
assignment of secondary street sign through City Council initiative; to create a process for the
assignment of secondary street signs, either by petition or by City Council initiative; to provide
criteria for eligibility for the assignment of a secondary street sign; to provide timing requirements
for the process of assigning a secondary street sign; to establish the duties of the Of?ce of the City

Clerk, Legislative Policy Division, and Department of Public Works in relation to the assignment

A19-02142 i 6/20/2019

of secondary street signs; to establish costs to be charged for the application for and installation of
a secondary street sign; and to establish a limit for the quantity of secondary street signs that may

be assigned within a calendar year.

ii 6/20/2019

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks
and Other Public Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, widening, Vacating, Naming
and Renaming of Streets and Assigning Secondary Names to Streets, by adding Division 3,
Secondary Street Signs, Section 50-7-21, Assignment of secondary street signs permitted; Section
50-7-22, Location of secondary street signs; Section 50-7-23, Maintenance of secondary street
signs; Section 50-7-24, Removal of secondary street signs; Section 50-7-25, Limit on quantity of
secondary street signs assigned per year; Section 50-7-31, O?icial petition form required; Section
50-7-32, Procedure; Section 50-7-33, Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to provide notice;
Section 50-7-34, Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to prepare report; Section 50-7-35,
Public hearing; Section 50-7-36, Resolution by City Council authorizing secondary street sign;
Section 50-7?3 7, Duties of the Department of Public Works; Section 50-7-41, Procedure for City
Council initiative; Section 50-7-42, Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to provide notice
regarding assignment of secondary street sign through City Council initiative; Section 50-7-43,
Report by the Legislative Policy Division regarding assignment of secondary street name through
City Council initiative; Section 50?7-44, Public hearing regarding assignment of secondary street
name through City Council initiative; Section 50?7-45, Resolution by City Council authorizing
secondary street name; and Section 50?7-46, Duties of the Department of Public Works regarding
assignment of secondary street sign through City Council initiative; to create a process for the
assignment of secondary street signs, either by petition or by City Council initiative; to provide
criteria for eligibility for the assignment of a secondary street sign; to provide timing requirements
for the process of assigning a secondary street sign; to establish the duties of the Of?ce of the City

Clerk, Legislative Policy Division, and Department of Public Works in relation to the assignment

A19-O2142 1 6/20/2019

secondary street signs; to establish costs to be charged for the application for and installation of
a secondary street sign; and to establish a limit for the quantity of secondary street signs that may
be assigned within a calendar year.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public
Places, Article VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating, Naming, and Renaming of
Streets and Assigning Secondary Street Names to Streets, be amended by adding Division 3,
Secondary Naming of Streets, Section 50-7-21 through Section 50-7-50 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 50. STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
ARTICLE VII. OPENING, CLOSING, EXTENDING, WIDENING, VACATING,
NAMING, AND RENAMING OF AND ASSIGNING 
STREET SIGNS.

DIVISION 3. SECONDARY STREET SIGNS.

Subdivision A. Generally

Sec. 50?7-21. Assignment nfsecondars street signs permitted.

A street may be assigned a seeondarv street sign that displays a different name than
the of?cial street name in accordance with this division.

The assignment of a secondary street sign is for purposes or honorary recognition
only and shall not replace the ollicial street name or require changing of?cial maps, surveys. or


The assignment ol'a secondarv street sign may? be sou to recognize a person who

meets the followingr criteria:

A19-02142 2 6/20/2019

The person has achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant. positive.
and extraordinary contributions to the City of Detroit. State of Michigan. the United
States of America- or the international community;

The person was a resident of the City for a cumulative time of not less than ten
years; and

The person has been deceased for a period of not less than live years, unless the
secondary street sign is requested by a City Council Member pursuant to the
procedure provided in Subdivision of" this division. and the requested secondary
street sign is sought to recognize a deceased person who either:

i Held a public of?ce in lhe federal government. or

b. Was killed while performing his or her duty as a police of?cer. ?re?ghter.

or member of the emergency medical services for the City.

Sec. 50-7-22. Location of secondarv street signs.



The secondary street sign shall be placed above the of?cial slreetiien and be of a

different color than the t?ticial street sign.



A maximum of one secondary street sign shall be placed at only one identi?ed

intersection in the area signi?cant to the honoree?s historical residence or the location of the

honoree?s historical contribution.

Sec. 50-7-23. Maintenance of secondary street signs.

The cost of replacing any missing or damaaed secondary street sign shall be borne by the

petitioner or City Council Member who requested the secondary street sign.

A19-02142

3 6/20/2019

Sec. 50-7-24. Removal of secondary street signs.
Secondary street signs may be subiect to removal alter a period oi? the years

pursuant to the l'bllowing:

 

(1) A written recommendation from the Department of Public Works that the
secondary street sign should be removed.

(2) Upon receipt of the written recommendation. City Council shall schedule a public
hearing. Notice ol?thc public hearing shall be:
i Given to the owners and occupants of real property within 300 linear feet

of the intersection abutting such street that was assigned the secondary street

 

 

Si 11'

Published in a newspaper of general circulation at least live days prior to
the date ?xed for the hearing: and

Given to the original petitioner or City Council Member who requested the

 

secondary street Sign.

Q) Following the public hearing. City Council shall adopt a resolution approying or

denying the recommendation submitted by the Department ol? Public Works.

The cost to remove a secondary street sign for the purpose of installing a new
secondary street sign shall be borne by the petitioner or City Council Member requesting the new
si 11.

Sec. 50-7-25. Limit on quantity of secondary street signs assigned peryear.

No more than ?ve secondary street signs may be assigned by City Council. either through

petition or City Council initiative: pursuant to this division. each calendar year.

Secs. 50-7-26 50-7-30. Reserved.

4 6/20/2019

Subdivision B. Procedure for Installation of Second-aw
Street Sign Through Petition
Sec. 50-7-31. Official petition form required.

Petitions for the assignment of a secondarv street sign in the City shall be provided
by the Of?ce of the City Clerk.

The petition shall state in bold face type that the consent of 2B of those who own
or occupv propertv that abuts the street within 300 linear feet of the intersection where the
secondarv street sign is proposed to be located is required.

(9) No form other than that referenced in Subsection of this section shall be
accepted as a valid petition.

Sec. 50-7-32. Procedure.

A petition for a secondarv street Sign shall be ?led with the Of?ce of the CitV Clerk.

Lb) The petitioner shall provide the lollowinn as an attachment to the petition:

LL) Information pertaining to the proposed honoree. including a hioarapltv. honors

received. and contributions to the local. State. national or international communiti?

(2) A letter of concurrence from either the honoree?s survivinu spouse or living

descendants. if applicable;

Q) The proposed location for the installation of the secondarv street sign consistent

with Section 50?7-22 of this Code:

Information that is suf?cient to accuratelv assess the appropriateness of the

secondary street sign for the proposed location: and

Proof of payment of the application fee described in Subsection (0) of this section.

5 6/20/2019

non-refundable application fee of $665 shall be charged for the administration.
processing. issuance. and enforcement of the petition under this division. made pavable to ?City
Treasurer.? and submitted to the Legislative Policy Division.

Upon receipt of a petition for a secondarv street sign. and the non-refundable
application fee. the Of?ce ot" the Citv Clerk shall assign a petition number to the petition. report
receipt of the petition to City Council. and transmit the petition to the Legislative Policv Division.

Petitions for secondary street signs shall be submitted to. and accepted bv. the
Of?ce of the Citv Clerk from the date of January 1 until the date of June 30 ol?each calendar vear.
Sec. 50-7-33. Duties of the Legislative Policv Division to provide notice.

Within two weeks of receiving a petition From the Oilice ol' the Citv Clerk. the
legislative Policv Division shall complete a review of the petition and determine whether 2H3 of
the owners and occupants of real within 300 linear feet of the proposed intersection
abutting such street to be assigned a secondarv street Sign have signified. in writing. their consent
to granting such petition. Upon making its determination. the Legislative Policy Division shall
proceed according to the following:

(1) Where the petition does not contain the required number of veri?ed signatures. the
?gislative Policv Division shall conclude its investigation and report its ?ndings
to City Council.

(2) Where the petition does contain the required number oi? veri?ed signatures::

a The Legislative Policv Division shall mail a copv of the petition. via ?rst
class mail. to each owner and occupant as described in Subsection of

this section. and a notice stating that have 2] calendar days from the

A19-02142 6 6/20/2019

date the notice is mailed to submit comments or obiections regarding the

petition to the Legislative Policy Division: and



The Legislative Policy Division shall notify all necessary City departments.
includim;I the Department ol" Public Works. Detroit Police Department. and
Detroit Fire Department. identi?ed community groups in areas adiacent to
the subiect street. and governmental agencies. including the United States
Postal Service. of the proposed secondary street sinn. and that they have 21
calendar clays From the date the notice is mailed to submit comments or
obieetions regarding the petition to the Legislative Policy Division.

Upon expiration of the 21 day comment period. the Legislative Policy Division
shall make a written report summarizing the comments and obicctions. if any. regarding the
petition. and forward the report to City Council.

Sec. 50-7-34. Duties of the Legislative Policy Division to prepare report.

Between the dates of July 1 and October 31 of the calendar year in which the
petition for a secondary street Sign was tiled with the Of?ce ofthe City Clerk. but after submission
of the report referenced in Subsection 50-7-33tb) ol" this Code. the Legislative Policy Division
Shall review all documentation submitted by the petitioner. and prepare and submit a report ot? its
?ndings as to whether the proposed secondary street sign meets the following: criteria:

(1) The proposed honoree positively re llects or exempli?es the cultural. social.

economic. or political history of the City. State. nation or world;

(2) The proposed honoree was a resident of the City [?or a cumulative time of not less

than ten years:

7 6/20/2019

The proposed honoree has been deceased for a period of not less than ?ve years;

?l

The proposed location ol?thc secondary street sign bears a clear association with a

site, building. structure. or event directly related to the proposed honoree.
Upon ?nding that the above criteria are satis?ed. the Legislative Policy Division
shall issue to City Council a recommendation in Favor ol? the proposed secondary street sign, and
submit a resolution for consideration by City Council that includes:
A description of the historical signi?cance ol'the proposed honoree:
(2) The appropriateness of the location where the secondary street sign is proposed to
Mstalled; and

Q) The requirement that the cost of designing, producing. and erecting the sign shall
be paid, in advance. to the street Fund by the petitioner requesting the secondary
street sig n.

to) If the Legislative Policv Division determines that the criteria are not satis?ed. its
report to City Council shall so indicate.
Sec. 50-7-35. Public hearing:

Upon receipt of the report from the Legislative Policy Division, City Council shall
adopt a resolution ?xing the time and place of a public hearing.

The public hearing shall be ?xed for a date between the months of July and
November of the calendar year in which the petition for a secondarv street sign was ?led with the
Of?ce of the City Clerk.

LC) Notice of the public hearing shall be:

A19-02142 8 6/20/2019

Given to the owners and occupants of real propertv Within 300 linear feet of the

 

proposed intersection abutting such street to be assigned a secondaryr street Sign:
and

(2) Published in a newspaper ol_?aeneral circulation at least ?ve days prior to the date

 

?xed for the hearine.
Sec. 50-7-36. Resolution hr City Council authorizing secondary street sign.
Where a petition for a secondary street Sign is granted bV Citv Council. a certi?ed copV of
the resolution adopting the request shall be transmitted by the Of?ce ot?the City Clerk to the Detroit

F're Department. Detroit Police Department. Department of Public Works. and the United States

Postal Service.

Sec. 50-7-37. Duties of the Department of Public Works

After adoption of the resolution bV Citv Council. the Department of Public Works

shall collect payment from the petitioner.

(1) Payment of $200 shall be made bv the petitioner prior to installation of the
secondary street Sign for the cost ol?desianina. producing. and installing the sign:
?1

(2) Payment shall be deposited into the street fund.

The Department of Public Works shall erect the secondary street sian within 45

days from receipt ol? the payment required under Subsection (aitl ol?this section.

Secs. 50-7-38 50-7-40. Reserved.

A19-02142 9 6/20/2019

1 Subdivision C. Procedure for Installation of Seeondarv Street Sign

 

2 Through City Council Initiative

3 Sec. 50-7-41. Procedure for Citv Council initiative.

4 Citv Council mav. on its own initiative, adopt a resolution that assigns a secondarv
5 street Sign based upon criteria set forth in Section 50-7-21 of this Code without following the
6 procedures that are set forth in Subdivision ot?this division.

7 Anv Member of Citv Council mav propose a secondarv street sign for consideration
8 hv l?orwarding a request to the Legislative Policy Division.

9 The Citv Council Mernber shall provide the following as an attachment to the

10 request:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 (1) pertaining to the honoree, including biographv, honors received. and
12 contributions to the local. national or international community.

13 (2) A letter of concurrence from either the honoree?s surviving Spouse or living
14 descendants. if applicable:

15 Q) The proposed location liar the installation of the secondarv street sign consistent
16 with Section 50-7-22 of this Code;

17 Information that is suf?cient to aceuratelv assess the appropriateness of the
18 secondarv street sign for the proposed location; and

19 Q) A non-refundable fee of $400 for the administration. processing. issuance and
20 enforcement of the request under this division.

21 Requests submitted pursuant to this section shall onlv be forwarded to the

 

22 Legislative Policv Division from the date of January_1 until the date of June 30 of each calendar

23 ean

A19-02142 10 6/20/2019

Sec. 50-7-42. Duties of the Legislative Policv Division to provide notice regarding assignment
of secondarv street sign through Citv Council initiative.

Within two weeks of receiving a request from a Citv Council Member. the
Legislative Policy Division shall mail a copv of the request. via ?rst class mail. to each owner and
occupant 1' real propettv within 300 linear feet of the proposed intersection abutting such street to
be assigned a secondartr street sign. and a notice stating that thev have 21 calendar davs from the
date the notice is mailed to submit comments or objections regarding the request to the Legislative
Policy Division.

The Legislative [?olicv Division shall notit'v all necessary City departments.
including the Department of Public Works. Detroit Police Department. and Detroit Fire
Department. identi?ed comm unitv groups in areas adiacent to the subiect street. and governmental
agencies. including the United States Postal Service. of the proposed secondarv street sign, and
that thev have 21 calendar davs from the date the notice is mailed to submit comments or objections
regarding the request to the Legislative Policv Division.

onn expiration of the 21 dav comment period. the Legislative Policv Division
shall make a written report sununariai?g the comments and obiections, it' any, regarding the
request. and forward the report to City Council.

Sec. 50?7-43. Report hv the Legislative l?olicv Division regarding assignment of secondarv
street name through City Council initiative.

Between the dates of .iulv I and October 31 of the calendar year in which the request
for a secondarv street sign was forwarded to the Legislative I?olicv Division. but after submission
of the report referenced in Subsection 50-7-42(c) of this Code. the Legislative Policy Division

shall review all documentation submitted by the Citv Council Member requesting the secondary

A19-02l42 11 6/20/2019

street sign. and prepare and submit a report of its ?ndings as to whether the proposed secondary

street sign does or does not meet the following criteria:

Q)

?at

The proposed honoree positively re t'lects or exemplifies the cultural. social.

economic. or political history of the Citv. State. nation. or world:

The proposed honoree was a resident of the City for a cumulative time of not less

than ten years:

The proposed honoree has been deceased for a period of not less than ?ve years. or

is a deceased person who either:

i Held :1 public of?ce in the federal government: or

Was killed while performing his or her duty as a police of?cer. ?re?ghter.
or member of the emergency medical services For the City; and

The pr0posed location of the secondary street Sign bears a clear association with a

site. building. structure. or event directly related to the proposed honoree.

Upon finding that the above criteria are satisfied. the Legislative Policy Division

shall issue to City Council a recommendation in favor of the proposed secondary street sign. and

submit a resolution for consideration by City Council that includes:

(L)
Q)



A description of the historical significance of the proposed honoree:

The appropriateness of the location where the secondary street sign is proposed to
be installed: and

The requirement that the cost ot?desipninn. producing. and erecting the sign shall
be paid. in advance. to the street fund by the City Council Member reoriestinar the

secondary street sion.

12 6/20/2019

the Legislative Policv Division determines that the criteria are not satis?ed. its
report to City Council shall so indicate.
Sec. 50-7-44. Public hearing regarding assignment of secondarv street name through Ci?

Council initiative.

 

Upon receipt of the report from the Legislative Policy Division. Citv Council shall
adopt a resolution ?xing the time and place ol?a public. hearina.

The public hearing shall be ?xed for a date between the months of Julv and
November oi? the calendar vear in which the request for a secondarv street name was forwarded to
the Legislative Policy Division.

Notice ol?the public hearina shall he:

(1) Given to the owners and occupants ol~ real propertv within 306* linear feet of the

mo osed intersection abutting such street to be assigned a secondarv street sign:

93
CL

Published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ?ve days prior to the date
lined for the hearing.
Sec. 50-7-45. Resolution bv Citv Council authorizing secondarv street name.
Where a request for a secondarv street sign is granted bv Citv Council~ a certi?ed copv of
the resolution adopting], the request shall be transmitted by the Of?ce ot'the Citv Clerk to the Detroit
Fire Department. Detroit Police Department, Department of? Public Works. and the United States

Postal Service.

A19-O2142 13 6/20/2019

10

11

Sec. 50-7-46. Duties of the Department of Public W'orlts regarding assignment of secondary
street sign through Citv Council initiative.

Alter adoption ol? the resolution hr City CouneiL the Department ol?l?ublie Works

 

shall collect pawnent from the Citv Council Member requesting; the secondary street sign.
(A) Payment of $200 shall be made by the Citv Council Member?s of?ce prior to the
installation of the street sign For the cost of desianina. producing. and

installina the sign: and

 

(2) Payment shall be deposited into the street ['Llnd.
The Department of Public Works shall ereet the street sign within 45

davs from its receipt of the $200 pavment.

 

Secs. 50-7-47 50-7-50. Reserved.

Al9?02l42 14 6/20/2019

10



Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by a two-thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4-118(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is
passed by less than two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become
effective thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118(2) of the 2012
Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

A19-02142 15 6/20/2019

05

Alton James @ttp 0f Brenda Goss Andrews
Cha?mersc?? CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
Vice Chair/Secretary 208 COleman A Young Mun1c1pal Center David Esparza, LEED
Detr01t, Michlgan 48226 3 Gregory pawlowski
Marcel] R- Todd, Jr- Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
D?recmr e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov Angy Webb

June 21, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Repeal of the home occupations prohibition in Chapter 61 of the City Code (Zoning);
and, amendments to Chapter 9 of the City Code (Buildings and Building Regulations) to
de?ne and establish provisioris relative to Short Term Rentals

Background

Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning, is proposed to be amended at Article XII, Use
Regulations, for consistency with proposed provisions to be added to Chapter 9, Buildings and
Building Regulations, at Article 1, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements for
Rental Property, Subdivision C, Short Term Rentals.

Scope of the Zoning Amendment, Chapter 61

When the CPC took up the Fifth General Text Amendment to the Zoning Ordinance in March and
April 2017, one of the items addressed in the 209-page ordinance was ?home occupations? in
response to the request of the Boston-Edison association and concerns from other communities. The
provision clari?ed that an Airbnb-type use (short term rental) could not be established under the
guise of ?home occupation,? consistent with the spirit of the long?established prohibition of bed and
breakfast inns on land zoned R1 and R2.

The proposed zoning amendment has the effect of repealing the ?home occupations? prohibition that
was established in the Fifth General Text Amendment (Sec. 61-12-392) for the purpose of
consistency with and enabling of the proposed provisions to be added to Chapter 9.

Scope of the Property Maintenance/Rental Code Amendment, Chapter 9

The Chapter 9 ordinance is an outgrowth of inter-departmental working group deliberations. The
Law Department has drafted and revised the proposed amendment, which is sponsored by Council
Member anee Ayers. Key provisions of the Chapter 9 ?Short term rentals? ordinance include:

- De?nitions of terms. Among them, ?short term rental,? means ?any rental of a dwelling unit,
or rooming unit in exchange for compensation or other consideration, as residential
accommodations for at least one night, but no more than 90 cumulative days of the year?
(See. 

- Residency requirement. Any property used as a short term rental must be the owner?s
principal residence (Sec. 

0 Registration required. Any short term rental must be registered with the Buildings, Safety
Engineering, and Environmental Department (BSEED) (Sec. 

II Spacing between short term rentals. A short term rental will not be registered if located
within 1,000 feet (measured linearly) of another short term rental; BSEED has limited
discretion to relax the 1,000-foot spacing (Sec. 

0 Limitation on groups. A host may not rent to more than one group of guests under more than
one reservation at any given time (Sec. 

I Limitation on number. Not more than ten people may be accommodated at one time (Sec. 9-


0 Limitation on rentals per year. A short term rental unit may not be rented more than 90 days
per calendar year (See. 

0 Certi?cate. The short term rental must post its certi?cate of registration in a conspicuous
place on the property and provide it in electronic format to all guests (Sec. 

- Noti?cation of neighbors. Within 30 days of registration, a short term rental host must notify
neighboring dwelling units within 300 feet of the property?s approval for short term rentals
and provide the phone number of the rental?s local contact person (Sec. 

I Violations and enforcement. BSEED is responsible for enforcement of the ordinance;
violations are subject to issuance of a blight violations; violators may be removed from the
rental registry (Sec. 

- Denials and appeals. Where an applicant is denied registration or where BSEED determines
a registration should be removed, the applicant is entitled to a hearing (Sec. 

Results of June 6, 2019 public hearing and public discussion

A public hearing and discussion was held on June 6, 2019. There was considerable discourse on the
proposed ordinances involving Commissioners, CPC staff, the Law Department, thirteen members of
the public and the Of?ce of the Ombudsman.

No speaker suggested that short term rentals should not be subject to registration including those
speakers who objected to various provisions of the proposed Chapter 9 ordinance. No speaker
voiced objection to the requirement that the short term rental property be the primary residence of the
owner although one speaker spoke positively of his short term rentals, one of which was his primary
residence and two of which were his income properties. No speaker raised an issue over the 10-
person maximum per short term rental nor over the l-group maximum per night.

Three members of the public objected to the proposed 1,000?foot linear spacing requirement as being
too restrictive. A Commissioner also expressed concern over the spacing requirement

One speaker, a short term rental owner/operator, felt that a 90-day maximum per calendar year was
too restrictive and that registered short term rentals should be able to operate more than that.

A speaker from the Boston-Edison neighborhood spoke of considerable negative experience toward
the neighbors from an existing short term rental. A Boston-Edison block club president noted
responsible operation at one short term rental but bad experiences with a different short term rental.
A third speaker from Boston?Edison objected on the grounds that the proposed 90-day maximum on
short term rental operations would still allow operation most weekends of the year.

A speaker in support of the proposed ordinances, believed that short term rentals take units off the
market and raise rents elsewhere.

An advocate for short term rentals portrayed them as a healthy aspect of the sharing economy and
that registration of the properties was appropriate.

Two speakers and a CPC member questioned the lack of an ?inspection? requirement; the $250
application fee was viewed as too little; a more signi?cant fee was thought to be appropriate to cover
the cost of inspections.

Two speakers questioned the appropriateness of the proposed ?15t come-lSt served? approach to
reviewing and approving applications for short term rentals in light of the 1,000-foot spacing
requirement. Renewals of registered short term rentals involved a lesser fee than for the initial
application; one speaker questioned whether a lesser fee was warranted.

Problems that were voiced over existing short term rentals suggested a connection between the non-
resident status of the operator and the trouble experienced. Speakers who were concerned about
short term rentals mentioned their experience with parking problems, noisy parties and gatherings,
disrespect to the neighbors, uncut grass, lack of snow removal, trash, neglected dumpsters, and the
existence of a business in the residential neighborhood.

A speaker questioned whether it mightn?t be appropriate to exempt the least active short term rentals
from the registration requirement, suggesting 14 days as a threshold for being subject to the
ordinance.

A letter submitted by a Woodbridge homeowner in support of the proposed ordinances observed that
nearby single-family homes had been bought up at bargain rates and then turned into a short term
rental business, replacing neighbors with strangers.

CPC staff and the Law Department had con?icting understandings of a two-family dwelling or
apartment building unit?s eligibility for a short term rental. Clari?cation was offered that such
residential uses would be ineligible for short term rental except for the actual space or unit occupied
by the owner of the building.

A Commissioner raised a concern over the Chapter 9 ordinance?s discretion afforded BSEED, noting
that the application of discretion often results in a favorable outcome to those with higher socio-
economic status. Another Commissioner suggested that the ordinance require three, rather than two,
pieces of identi?cation to document the owner?s proof of residency in the unit to be rented for short
term and that neighborhood associations also be noti?ed of registered short-term rentals in their
community.

Analysis

At the conclusion of public testimony and discussion among Commissioners, the chairperson
directed staff to return at the June 20th meeting after further examining several issues, as discussed
below.

Spacing. The sponsor of the Chapter 9 ordinance included the 1,000-foot linear spacing
requirement as a way of avoiding an over-concentration of short term rentals in any one
neighborhood. Speakers at the public hearing documented nuisances arising from existing
short term rentals and their belief that long-term residents better ensured and protected the
character of their neighborhood than did transient guests.

CPC staff felt that a spacing requirement that would have the effect of generally limiting
short term rentals to not more than one short term rental per block would respond to the

3

sponsor?s and concerned speakers? concerns. In many communities, a typical block might be
1/8th of a mile long?660 feet. Staff wanted to test whether a lesser spacing requirement
might effectively protect Detroit neighborhood?s from more than one short term rental per
block.

Staff measured the of 40 blocks in randomly selected areas of the city and found
block length to vary from 250 feet to 1,000. Half of the blocks measured were 760 feet in
length, half were longer. If the spacing were reduced from 1,000 to 660 feet, we project that
only 28% of the blocks in the city would be protected from more than one short term rental.
If the spacing were reduced to 800 feet, only 55% would be so protected. With a 900-foot
spacing requirement, 93% of the blocks would only be able to host one short term rental.
Staff concludes that the proposed 1,000 foot linear spacing is the most appropriate
measurement to prevent more than one short term rental per block.

Parking. During the June 6th deliberations, CPC staff questioned the appropriateness of
requiring the short term rental applicant to disclose the amount of parking available even
though the proposed ordinance speci?es no requirement or expectation for parking to be
provided. Staff continues to believe that, lacking a parking requirement, the applicant should
not be required to disclose the availability or non-availability of parking. If parking
availability is meant to be a factor in decision to approve or deny a short term
rental application, then a speci?c standard should be stated to avoid vagueness or abuse of
discretion.

CPC staff also notes that the reference in the Chapter 9 ordinance to parking governed by
Chapter 55 refers to the ?permit parking? provisions. Although we recommend removing the
language related to ?parking,? if it is retained, a fuller cross-reference should be incorporated
with title to article and division within Chapter 55 that contains the ?permit parking?
provisions; presumably, short term rental guests would enjoy no special advantage or suffer
any greater detriment in a ?permit parking? area than would any other visitor.

Renewals. Staff believes the ordinance would bene?t from a fuller treatment of registration
renewals. The term, renewal, seems to imply that a registered short term rental with a clean
record can expect renewal upon payment of the appropriate fee, as is the case for holders of
vending licenses. That seems to con?ict with the come?1St served application process.

If a registration certi?cate holder is not meant to have any expectation of approval over a
competing, new applicant whose property is within the 1,000-foot spacing area, then the
term, renewal, should not be used and the ordinance should be explicit in clarifying that new
applicants and existing registrants compete on an equal footing.

Equity/discretion. The proposed ordinance provides for BSEED to apply discretion in
considering approval of a second or subsequent short term rental property within the same
1,000-foot spacing area. Unbridled discretion could well favor those with higher socio-
economic standing, however the proposed ordinance ties hands to consider waivers
of spacing only from applicants whose properties would be less at least 900 feet from an
approved short term rental. This discretion mimics the 10% ?Administrative Adjustment?
that has been a feature of the Zoning Ordinance since 2005.

Conclusions and Recommendation

CPC staff, the Law Department and staff from Council Member Ayers of?ce sat in review and
discussion of the various comments and suggestions for the proposed Chapter 9 language. Additional
review and consideration was conducted by the Council Member?s of?ce and the Law Department to
develop speci?c responses. Subsequently, these items were presented and discussed with the City
Flaming Commission at the regular meeting of June 20th with Council Member Ayers joining them
at the table. The following modi?cations resulted:

1. Language was added to include ?utility bill? as one of the documents and showing both the
owner?s name and address as a means of corroborating residency.

2. Language was added to address possible con?ision between required parking provisions of
the Zoning Ordinance and the provisions of the newly adopted Resident Permit Parking
Ordinance.

3. Language was added to address concerns for the timing, processing and administration of
short term rental registration and renewal by the BSEED.

4. Language was added to require the registration certi?cate holder to notify not only BSEED
but also the neighbors within 300 feet of the change of ?local contact.?

Additionally, and outside of the ordinance provisions, the suggestion was made that a webpage be
created listing and mapping the locations of registered Short Term Rental locations for general public
awareness, which could also be used by City Council Members and other City agencies to notify
speci?c groups such as neighborhood associations.

With the above understanding, the City Planning Commission recommended approval of the attached
ordinance amending Chapter 61 and the forthcoming ordinance amending Chapter 9 of the Detroit
City Code in support of the regulation of Short Term Rentals.

Respectfully submitted,
ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director

M. Rory Bolger, Staff

Underwood, Staff

Marcel Hurt, Esq, Legislative Policy Division
Attachment

  

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505

LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

January 24, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Amendment To Chapter 61, Zoning, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Article
XII, Use Regulations, Section 61-12-392, Prohibited uses and activities.

Honorable City Council:

The Law Department has prepared an ordinance which amends a portion of the Zoning
Code, speci?cally Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning; by amending Article XII,
Use Regulations, by removing a portion of the language in Section 61-12-392, Prohibited uses and
activities, to bring this section into compliance with Chapter 9, Buildings and Building
Regulations, Article 1, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements for Rental
Property, Subdivision C, Short Term Rentals. A copy of the ordinance, which hasbeen approved
as to form, is attached for your consideration.

I look forward to discussing this important legislation with this Honorable Body.

Respectfully Submitted,

om 
Mary Farm

Assistant Corporation Counsel

City of Detroit

El? Municipal Law Section

vi"

?21319 In: 






 

 

 

 A 
AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning; by
amending Article XII, Use Regulations, by removing a portion of the language in Section 61-12?
392, Prohibited uses and activities, to bring this section into compliance with Chapter 9, Buildings
and Building Regulations, Article I, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3,

Requirements for Rental Property, Subdivision C, Short Term Rentals.

 

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning; by
amending Article XII, Use Regulations, by removing a portion of the language in Section 61?12-
392, Prohibited uses and activities, to bring this section into compliance with Chapter 9, Buildings
and Building Regulations, Article 1, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3,
Requirements for Rental Property, Subdivision C, Short Term Rentals.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning; Article XII, Use Regulations,
by amending Section 61-12-3 92, Prohibited uses and activities, to read as follows:

CHAPTER 61. ZONING
ARTICLE XII. USE REGULATIONS
Sec. 61-12-392. Prohibited uses and activities.

Any sale of ?reworks, any ?rearms dealership, any materials or service characterized by
an emphasis on ?speci?ed anatomical areas? or ?speci?ed sexual activities? as de?ned in Sec. 61-
16-174 of this Code, and any type of repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with internal
combustion engines, such as automobiles, scooters, snowmobiles, outboard marine
engines, lawn mowers, chain saws, and other small engines, are prohibited. Any other work related
to automobiles and their parts, that is not conducted as a home occupation and is merely incidental
and accessory to the principal use, is subject to the provisions of Sec. 61-8-27 of this Code.

In addition, no home occupation may use, store, handle, or manage ?signi?cant quantities?
of hazardous substances as de?ned in Sec. 61-16-101 of this Code. For purposes of this provision,
?signi?cant quantities? shall mean amounts exceeding those commonly used for typical residential
or of?ce purposes. However, this does not include gasoline, oil, or other vehicle ?uids that are

contained in vehicles traversing or parked at a property for individual use or on a short-term basis.
1

 

 

10

11

12

13

Further, those land uses speci?ed in Sec. 61-12-11 of this Code, the ?Group Living? use
category, being adult foster care facility, assisted living facility, convalescent, nursing, or rest
home, emergency shelter, fraternity or sorority house, religious residential facility, residential
substance abuse service facility, rooming house, and shelter for victims of domestic violence, and
in Sec. 61-12?13 of this Code, the ?Institutional Living? use category, being boarding school,
dormitory, child caring institution, penal or correctional institution, detention facility, and pre-
release adjustment center, may only be permitted as principal uses of the land in those zoning
districts Where such uses are permitted. In no instance shall such uses be considered as a home
occupation accessory to a single-family dwelling, two-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling,
town house, or loft.


new?mm?mwm%mdam%?gbedmbremm



 

 

 

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in
accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective
on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day thereafter, in accordance with

Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 

 

(ab

Alton James Brenda Goss Andrews
Chairperson @It? at Lisa Whitmore Davis
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Davis! Esparzaz MA, LEED
Cha'r/Secretary 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center giggj/Yaxfixski
Marcel] R. TOdd, Jr. Den-Cit, MiChigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Director Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpcgu'ldelroilmi.gov

June 20, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Rockford Construction to amend Article XVII, District Map 4, of the 1984
Detroit City Code Chapter 61, Zoning, by modifying the provisions of the existing PD
(Plamed Development District) zoning classi?cation for the property located at 3750
Woodward Avenue generally bounded by East Alexandrine Avenue, John R. Street,
Mack Avenue and Woodward Avenue to establish a mixed-use development to include
a hotel, retail space, condominiums, student residences, multi-family units, and on-site
parking. Additionally, the request of the Roxbury Group, LLC to modify the provisions
of the PD (Plamed Development District) classi?cation at 3800 Woodward Avenue to
allow for the existing tower with an ?establishment that serves alcohol for consumption
on the premises.? Each of these requests proposes to allow those uses that are generally
permitted in the B5 Maj or Business District (RECOMMEND APPROVAL).

RECOMMENDATION

The City Flaming Commission voted to recommend approval of this request, requiring the
repeal of Ordinance #2914 which authorized development activities for these properties that
were not and will not be realized at this time. The recommendation also includes the following
conditions:

1. The developer must work with the immediately adjacent community to minimize
disruption to the neighborhood during construction and address impacts that may arise;

2. All changes in the development that do not change the overall character or increase the
height or massing of buildings within the development are subject to approval by the City
Plaming Commission staff;

3. The permissible uses for the development must be limited to those uses currently
permissible for the B5 (Major Business District) zoning classi?cation, with the exception
the following speci?c uses:

It Mortuary or ?meral home, including those containing a crematory

Firearms dealership

Firearms target practice range, indoor

Motor vehicle ?lling station

Motor vehicle services, minor

Parking structure not having ground ?oor commercial space or other space

oriented to pedestrian traf?c

Heliports

Medical marihuana provisioning center facility
Medical marihuana safety compliance facility
Medical marihuana safety transporter facility

4. All ?nal site plans, elevations, lighting, landscape and signage plans for the development
are subject to review and approval by the City Planning Commission staff prior to the
developer?s application for applicable building or construction permits.

NATURE OF REQUEST

Before this Honorable Body are two separate requests for PD modi?cations on the land generally
bounded by Alexandrine Avenue, John R. Street, Mack Avenue and Woodward Avenue.
Although these two requests are adjacent to one another, they are separate and distinct, having no
common ownership interests or relation, according to documentation that has been submitted to
CPC. However, since both requests were received generally at the same time and physically
abut one another, CPC has packaged the requests together.

The specific requests and proposed developments are as follows:

1. 3750 Woodward, The Mid? Rockford Construction?s request for a $310 million mixed?use
development to include retail pavilions, a hotel, condominiums, student residences, and a multi-
family residence tower. Also included is a parking structure with above and below grade-level
parking and additional off-street surface parking. Also to permit those uses that are generally
permitted in the B5 Major Business District.

THE MID

31'50 WOODWARD AVENUE



14353941} 


. 



 

3750 Woodward proposed site for ?The Mid.?

2. 3800 Woodward, The Professional Plaza Tower ?Hammer and Nail Building?- The
Roxbury Group?s request to reestablish the existing development and allow for the sale of beer
or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises, and also to permit those uses that are
generally permitted in the B5 Major Business District.

 

BACKGROUND

Overall Site Zoning history

The two requests that are now before Your Honorable Body for consideration, lie on an
approximately 9.2 acre portion of land that was rezoned to the PD (Flamed Development
district) zoning classi?cation in October 1998 by 1ordinance 37-98. The PD classi?cation at the
time was established to implement the Medical Center Rehabilitation Project No. 1 Urban
Renewal Area plan. The PD zoning district replaced the B4 (General Business district) which
accounted for the land within the boundaries mentioned.

Subsequent to the entire parcel being rezoned to Planned Development (PD), there have been
projects proposed for the site that did not come to fruition. In 1998 there was a project approved
by Council for an additional tower to be placed adjacent to the Professional Plaza to include a
hotel, a retail mall, and of?ce space.

Another project was approved for the 3750 Woodward site, which was never realized. It included
a four?story medical of?ce building that would?ve housed the Wayne State University Physician
Group, the Detroit Medical Center surgery of?ces, etc. That project also anticipated the closure
and demolition of the Carpenter Plaza development now known as the Professional Tower Plaza.

Projects that did in fact come into being after approval by City Council at the southern end of the

 

1 Subsequent to the original Ordinance, 804-G.

site include the Ellington Lofts with an accompanying six (6) story parking garage (including
954 parking spaces). Subsequently, the Whole Foods market was developed to the east of the
lofts completing the redevelopment of the southern third of the PD superblock.

The Professional Plaza Tower, the 2 ?Hammer and Nail Building? as many know it, is a twelve
(12) story International Style structure, designed by Gerald Crane and Norbert Gorwic and
erected in 1964-1966. The building was originally planned to be one of several towers, but in the
end, was the only building completed from the plan.

PROJECT PROPOSAL -3750 Woodward (The Mid)

The project that is being proposed at 3750 Woodward is a $310 million large scale mixed-use
development in the heart of Midtown. The plans call for the approximately 3.78 acre L-shaped
site to include 60 Luxury Condominiums, 313 Multifamily Apartments and 520 beds (within 154
student units) for student residences. Of the multi-family apartment units, 54 are planned as
ef?ciency units of approximately 515 sq. ft. each; 172 are l-bedroom units of approximately 671
sq. ft. each; and 87 are 2-bedroom units of approximately 1,190 sq. ft. each.

A breakdown of the proposal components is found below:

Retail Anchor- 50,581 sf total, 23,747 sf ?oor, 26,834 sf 2nd ?oor

Retail Grocer- 29,640 sf

Retail Pavilion (West) - One (1) story (3,870 sf.)

Retail Pavilion (East) - lstory (4,256 sf)

Student Residence- twelve (12) stories (228,526 sf)

Multi-Family Residence- 35 stories (325,474 sf)

Hotel- (209,485 sf,) and Luxury Condominiums (100,381 sf) which together comprise 24 stories
of the development.

Underground Parking- One (1) story below grade (139,420 sf) and Above Ground Parking-
?ve (5) stories above grade (172,723 sf) total

The total gross square footage of all structures is estimated to be 1,124,936 sf (excluding
underground the parking)

The project plans to include affordable units according to the department of Housing and Urban
Development standards. Of the total number of multiple family dwelling units, 62 units would be
affordable, which is 20% of the total unit number.

In addition to the housing component of the development, the plan is to create outdoor plazas, a
hotel, and multiple retail spaces that include one that will accommodate a large scale big box
retailer, large scale grocer and also small boutique retailers.

To support all of the components of the development, the plan proposes 743 parking spaces, with
the large majority of 728 spaces being structured parking (5 structured stories above grade and
one (1) level of structured parking would be below-grade. The remaining 15 spaces would be

 

2 Known as the Hammer and Nail building because of two signs that once adorned the facade that depict a hammer
and nail. The signs were a trademark of the Carpenters Union that once had of?ces on the top ?oors of the Plaza.
The Roxbury Group has restored one of the signs and reintroduced it into the building lobby, after it was removed in
2016.

surface lot parking housed outside of the structure. A traf?c study has been conducted to assess
the impact of the development on the surrounding area (see attached).

The developer would like to begin the project as soon as possible, and complete construction by
2021. The developer anticipates that this project would spur approximately 1300 to 1500
temporary jobs and 400+ permanent jobs and is seeking a number of subsidies including the
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone, Brown?eld Tax Increment Financing, Brown?eld Michigan
Business Tax Credit, Commercial Property Tax Abatement, and Michigan Economic
Development Corporation DRP Loan.

3800 Woodward (The Professional Plaza Tower/Hammer and Nail Building)

The Roxbury group has in recent years purchased the Professional Plaza Tower and rehabilitated
it into 72 apartment units with the project estimated to have a cost $20 million. The primary
request for the 3800 Woodward Professional Plaza, is to allow for the building to have an
?upscale cocktail bar, offering a carefully curated menu of classic and original cocktails, as well
as a selection of beer, wine and small plates. This venue would provide seating for
approximately 65 guests in a midcentury modern atmosphere.? Such a venue would considered
an ?establishment that serves alcohol for consumption on the premises? per the Zoning
Ordinance. Additionally, the developer is also requesting that the uses allowed in the B5 Major
Business District also be allowed for the subject property. This is being requested to allow for
?exibility in operations and future programming of the building.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS AND ANALYSIS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use

The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the project subject area are as follows:
North: Bicentennial Tower senior apartments

South: The Ellington Lofts parking deck; Whole Foods market

East: McLaughlin Hall Medical Center

West: Music Orchestra Hall/ Max M. Marjorie Music Center and the Detroit School of
Arts (high school)

ANALYSIS

3800 Woodward

The proposal of the 3800 Woodward developer is one that is consistent with the surrounding
Midtown area. In 2016, the City Council approved an ordinance that rezoned a large portion of
Midtown to the SD1-SD2 zoning classi?cations. In these districts, ?establishments that serve
alcohol for consumption on the premises? are permitted without a spacing requirement in order to
attract increased pedestrian traf?c to the area.

This proposal seems appropriate given that much of the Midtown neighborhood currently allows
this use with more liberal standards than other districts. The additional B5 uses would also allow
the property to address changing factors in demand for commercial space etc.

3750 Woodward
The 3750 Woodward development is planned to be one of the largest new developments that
Midtown has seen in years. The project as planned will create places and public spaces that will

not only serve the tenants of the development, but also the general public. 3The luxury boutique
hotel being proposed by the developer is much needed according to industry leaders. According
to the Detroit Free Press, 

Today, hotel occupancy and rates in downtown are at near- record highs and greater
downtown is in the middle of a building boom of small and midsize boutique hotels." The hotel
sewing as an anchor for the entire development is seemingly appropriate for the needs of the area
as there are not enough hotel rooms online to ?ll current and projected demand in the city.

In addition, the project plans to create a range of housing options, from the student style housing
to luxury condominiums, creating options for various households. With what currently exist as
dead space in a prime Woodward Avenue block, this project seeks to reinvigorate with over
100,000 square feet of retail that would transform this pmtion of Midtown. The developer also
seeking to attract a grocer to the neighborhood which staff has encountered as a top request from
residents in the area during public meetings.

PD Criteria 61-11-15
The zoning ordinance, provides that for a planned development to be approved it should meet the
following criteria found in Sec. 61-11-15. PD District design criteria.

Master Plan. The proposed development should re?ect applicable policies stated in the
Detroit Master Plan. The policies relating to the geographic area in question as well as general
policies will be considered. This zoning ordinance requires that the proposed major land use be
consistent with the adopted Master Plan in all PD developments.

Both petition requests align with the Master Plan of Policies as the Mixed Residential
Commercial designation calls for development that ?consists predominantly of medium?to-high
density housing developed compatibly with commercial and/or institutional uses. This
classification is well suited to areas proximal to existing centers of major commercial activity,
major thoroughfares, transportation nodes, or gateways into the city.? Woodward Avenue is
encouraged to be a major host for activity so this proposal accomplishes that goal.

Scale, form, massing, and density. Scale, form, massing and density should be appropriate to
the nature of the project and relate well to surrounding development.

This development would erect buildings with heights that exceed those in the nearby surrounding
area with two of its buildings reaching 366 ft. and 383 ft., however, the scale form, massing and
density can be deemed appropriate. The architect for the project has been thoughtful in designing
the buildings in the site so that there are cues in the massing and materiality that honor the
surrounding building scales. For instance, at the max height of the Professional Plaza Tower, the
buildings that are nearest the plaza tower, express a change in massing at the same level of the
plaza tower?s pinnacle. The massing and materials change as they exceed above the height of the
plaza to show contrast. If no other place in the City, Woodward, in the greater downtown area is
appropriate for this type of density to create a bustling center that will impact the entire area.

(0) Compatibility. The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding

 

3 Detroit Free Press article 

development in terms of land use, general appearance and function, and should not adversely
affect the value of properties in the immediate vicinity.

The proposed development is deemed appropriate in staff?s estimation as it will spur
opportunities for the surrounding area and bring more vibrancy to this corridor. The project pays
homage to the surrounding buildings. It also serves as a connector, from Woodward to John R.
The architectural teams intent was to be a connector of the major institutions and to bridge the
gap with a place that would serve as a central area for all to congregate. Staff believes this goal
has been achieved. There is a strong argument that this development will raise the values of
surrounding properties.

Circulation. Vehicular and pedestrian circulation facilities should be adequately designed to
meet expected demands. Disruption of traffic ?ow in surrounding areas should be minimized,
and truck tra?ic should be carefully planned and controlled, especially to avoid use of
residential streets.

A traf?c study was done by ROWE Professional Services Co. to examine the circulation and
traf?c ?ow of the site and the following are the summary of ?ndings of that study:

ROWE has conducted a traf?c impact assessment related to the proposed 3750 Woodward
Avenue mixed-use development to be located between M-l (Woodward Avenue) and John 
Street, north of Mack Avenue, in the City of Detroit, Wayne County. The current site plan
(included in the materials attached to this report) indicates a total of 373 multi-family residential
units (both rental apartments and luxury condominiums), 520 total beds within 154 student
apartments, a 225?room hotel, a grocery store, and 31,873 total square feet of
general retail space. This traf?c impact assessment has been completed in accordance with the
requirements speci?ed by the City of Detroit and the Michigan Department of Transportation
(MDOT).

To summarize, the ?ndings show that the development would generate 419 new trips at peak
morning hours and 550 at peak evening hours. To adjust for this, there are recommendations for
traf?c signal timing changes, a right turn lane to minimize traf?c disruption and interference
with the Q?line.

Parking and loading. Where appropriate, adequate vehicular off-street parking and loading
should be provided. The City Planning Commission will be guided by standards delineated in
this zoning ordinance with adjustments appropriate to each speci?c situation.

Parking and loading is appropriate as proposed at this site as parking will be self contained. The
parking will also be hidden from the street View by being located within and masked by the
buildings themselves. The multi-level structured above and below grade parking is ideal for a
project such as this, because it is hidden from street View largely, and therefore does not create a
dead space and also does not interrupt with existing conditions. A loading diagram has been
submitted and is appropriate for the site, also keeping from interference with current traf?c
patterns on Woodward and John R.

In general, the 3800 and 3750 Woodward sites, meet the intent and requirements of Sec. 61-11-
15 PD District design criteria.

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

During the public hearing, two (2) people spoke in regard to the proposed development(s). One
person representing Midtown Detroit Inc. spoke in favor of both projects. A second person
representing the nearby hospital spoke in favor of the 3750 Woodward project, but also had
concerns about traf?c impacts to the nearby hospital. This will be addressed in staff?s analysis.
Additionally, this project has completed the City?s Community Bene?ts Process which garnered
more community input. Lastly, Midtown Detroit Inc. has submitted a letter of support for this


3750 Woodward

The petitioner for the 3750 Woodward project has provided the following entities as stakeholders
that were included in community outreach efforts:

The Detroit Medical Center, Detroit Orchestra, Henry Ford Health Systems, Wayne
State University, Bicentennial Towers Tenant Association, Whole Foods, Plaza Midtown.

The owner of the 3800 Woodward Professional Plaza Tower has been supported by Midtown
Detroit Inc. for their request.

3800 Woodward
The developer has been working with Midtown Detroit Inc. with regard to the Professional Plaza
Tower proposal,

Respectfully submitted,


fh



Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner

Attachment:
Ordinance
Plans
Map
Support Letter

Cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 
Karen Gage, 
Esther Yang, 
Greg Moots,P&DD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel
Arthur emison, Chief of Services and Infrastructure

 

 



August 22, 2013

Brian Vosburg, AICP

Brownfield Redevelopment Manager
Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit. MI 48226

RE: 3750 Woodward Avenue Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Mr. Vosburg,

On behalf of the Midtown Detroit, Inc. I would like to express our support for the redevelopment
of 3750 Woodward Avenue. MDI recognizes that this project is eligible for brown?eld redevelopment
tax credits. These credits will provide a valuable ?nancial bene?t to support the completion of the
project. which will be a much-needed benefit to the surrounding neighborhood

The development site Is in a great, centralized location within the Midtown District. This proposed $175
million mixed-use project aims to further develop Midtown by bringing a 225-room boutique hotel; 60
luxury condos; 200 apartment units; 500 beds of student housing; 100,000 square feet of retail; and a
750-space parking deck.

New for-sale, rental housing, and student housing options will support the growing residential demand
of a neighborhood facing 93% occupancy. The hotel and retail components will create new economic
opportunities for all. The various elements of this project will contribute to the revitalization taking
place in the area.

3750 Woodward is currently an underutilized property with the potential to become a thriving part of
the neighborhood. MDI is encouraged by the proposed development of 3750 Woodward Avenue and
believe it will have a meaningful impact on the surrounding neighborhood. MDI offers its full support of
this project. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at 313.420.6000.

Sincerely,

7(a? 7- 775"? 

Susan T. Mosey
Executive Direcmr

10

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 4 to modify
an existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation, established by Ordinance
No. 29-14 and amended by Ordinance No. 37-98, on land generally bounded by East Alexandrine
Avenue to the north, John R. Street to the east, Mack Avenue to the south, and Woodward Avenue
to the west to allow for the construction of a mixed-use development and an establishment that
serves alcohol for consumption on the premises, as well as for those uses that are generally

permitted in the BS (Major Business District) zoning classi?cation.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 6] of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 4 to modify
an existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation, established by Ordinance
No. 29-14 and amended by Ordinance No. 37-98, on land generally bounded by East Alexandrine
Avenue to the north, John R. Street to the east, Mack Avenue to the south, and Woodward Avenue
to the west to allow for the construction of a mixed-use development and an establishment that
serves alcohol for consumption on the premises, as well as for those uses that are generally
permitted in the B5 (Major Business District) zoning classi?cation.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Article XVII of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code is amended as

follows:

 

District: zoning classi?cation currently: shown on:
PARCEL 1

Part of Lots 1. 2 and 3. and part ofthe South 112 of vacated Martin Place, all oF"MedieaI

Center Urban Renewal Plat No. cart of Park Lots 20 to 24 and 26 and P.C.'s 2 and

 

City of Detroit. Wayne County. Michigan. as recorded in Liber 88 ct? Plats. Pane 74.
Wayne County Records. as amended by Survevor's Af?davit. recorded in Libcr 15931,
Page 224. Wavne County Records. more particularly described as:

Beginning at the Northwest comer of said Lot 1. thence along the Nonherly line of said
Lot 1. North 60 degrees 09 minutes 30 seconds East. 159.50 feet: thence North 26 degrees

27 minutes 00 seconds West. 37.90 Feet: thence North 60 decrees 09 minutes 30 seeon_tl_s

East. 100.00 feet: thence North 63 degrees 33 minutes 00 seconds East, 8.01 feet; thence

South 26 degrees 24 minutes 40 seconds East. 158.48 feet: thence South 18 dems 35
minutes 20 seconds West, 23.28 feet: thence South 63 degrees 35 minutes 20 seconds West,
137.00 Feet: thence South 26 degrees 24 minutes 40 seconds East. 8.99 feet: thence South
63 denrees 35 minutes 20 seconds West. 110.02 feet. to the Easterlv line of Woodward
Avenue. 120 foot wide. thence. along the said Easterly line of Woodward Avenue. North
26 degrees 24 minutes 30 seconds West. 134.03 feet, to the point of beginning.

PARCEL 2

PART OF LOTS 2 AND 3. AND PART OF THE SOUTH 1/2 OF VACATED MARTIN
PLACE. ALL OF MEDICAL CENTER URBAN RENEWAL PLAT NO- 1. PART OF

PARK. LOTS 20AND PRIVATE CLAIMS 1. 2 AND 5. CITY OF

 

DETROIT. WAYNE COUNTY. MICHIGAN. AS RECORDED TN LIBER 88 OF
FLATS. PAGE 74. WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS. AS AMENDED BY 
AFFIDAVIT RECORDED 1N LIBER 15931. PAGE 224. WAYNE COUNTY
RECORDS. MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS: COMMENCING AT THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF LOT 1 OF SAID MEDICAL CENTER URBAN
RENEWAL PLAT NO. 1: THENCE ALONG THE NORTHERLY LINE OF SAID LOT

1. NORTH 59 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 11 SECONDS EAST AS NORTH

   

60 DEGREES 09 MINUTES 30 SECONDS EAST). 159.50 FEET: THENCE NORTH 27

DEGREES 20 MINUTES 19 SECONDS WEST AS NORTH 26
DEGREES 27 MINUTES 00 SECONDS 37.90 THENCE NORTH 59

DEGREES 16 MINUTES 11 SECONDS EAST AS NORTH 60 DEGREES
09 MINUTES 30 SECONDS EAST . 100.00 THENCE NORTH 62 DEGREES 9

   

MINUTES 41 SECONDS EAST (RECORDED AS NORTH 63 DEGREES 33 MINUTES
00 SECONDS 8.0] FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING: THENCE NORTH
62 DEGREES 39 MINUTES 41 SECONDS EAST (RECORDED AS NORTH 63
DEGREES 33 MINUTES 00 SECONDS). 225.] 2 THENCE SOUTH 
DEGREES 20 MINUTES I9 SECONDS EAST (RECORDED AS SOUTH 26 DEGREES

23'" MINUTES 00 SECONDS EAST 20.00 THENCE NORTH 62 DEGREES 39

   

MINUTES 4  SECONDS EAST AS NORTH 63 DEGREES 33 MINUTES
00 SECONDS 32.85 FEET TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF JOHN STREET.

84 FOOT WIDE: THENCE ALONG THE SAID WESTERLY LINE OF JOHN 
STREET. SOUTH 27 DEGREES I4 MINUTES 49 SECONDS EASTJRECORDED AS
SOUTH 26 DEGREES 21 MINUTES 30 SECONDS EAST). 387.64 FEET: THENCE
SOUTH 62 DEGREES 42 MINUTES II SE 0ND WEST RECORDED AS SOUTH
63 DEGREES 35 MINUTES 20 SECONDS WEST), 524.70 FEET TO THE EASTERLY

LINE OF WOODWARD AVENUE I20 FEET THENCE ALONG THE SAID

 

EASTERLY LINE OF WOODWARD AVENUE. NORTH 27 DEGREES [7 MINUTES
49 SECONDS WEST AS NORTH 26 DEGREES 24 MINUTES 30
SECONDS 219.97 FEET: THENCE NORTH 62 DEGREES 42 MINUTES 01
SECONDS EAST AS NORTH 63 DEGREES 35 MINUTES 20 SECONDS
EAST). 110.02 THENCE NORTH 27 DEGREES 17 MINUTES 59 SECONDS
WEST AS NORTH 26 DEGREES 24 MINUTES 40 SECONDS WESTL,

8.99 FEET: THENCE NORTH 62 DEGREES 42 MINUTES 01 SECONDS EAST

IRECORDED AS NORTH 63 DEGREES 35 MINUTES 20 SECONDS EAST), 137.00
THENCE NORTH I7 DEGREES 42 MINUTES OI SECONDS EAST

NORTH 18 DEGREES 35 MINUTES 20 EASTL 28.28
FEET: THENCE NORTH 27 DEGREES 17 MINUTES 59 SECONDS WEST

AS NORTH 26 DEGREES 24 40 SECONDS WEST), 158-48
FEET TO THE POINT OF 

to repeal approval of the site plans. elevations. and other components of anv development proposal

described in Ordinance No. 29-14 or Ordinance No. 37-98 for the property described herein and
to approve the site plans, elevations. and other comppnents of the development proposals for The
Mid 3750 Woodward Avenue nroiect. as depicted in the drawinns prepared lav inform Studio.
dated March 2019. as well as for The Hammer and Nail Building: The Plaza proiect, as prepared

by Badrack Design Group, Inc. and Architects Chester Stempien Associates dated December

1 2017.

 

All site inns. elevations and other com orients ofthe develo ment ro osals
identi?ed in Subsection (A) of this Section are subiect to the following conditions:
(1) The developer must work with the immediately adjacent communitv to minimize
disruption to the neighborhood during construction and address impacts that may

(2) All changes in the development that do not change the overall character or increase

the height or massing of buildings within the development are subiect to approval

bv the Citv Planninn Commission staff;

(3) The permissible uses for the development must be limited to those uses currently:

rmissible for the B5 Ma'or Business District zonin classi?cation with the

 

exception the following specific uses:

Mortuary: or funeral home, including those containing a erematory

(C)

(8)







Firearms dealership

Firearms target practice range, indoor

Motor vehicle ?lling station

Motor vehicle services, minor

Part-rim,l structure not having ground floor commercial space or other space
oriented to pedestrian traf?c

l~leiip_orts

Medical marihuana provisioninn center facility
Medical marihuana safetv compliance facility

Medical marihuana safetv transporter Faeilitv

(4) All ?nal site plans. elevations, lithtinn, landscape and sinnaae plans for the

development are subiect to review and approval by the Citv Planning Commission

staff prior to the developer?s application for applicable building or construction

permits.

Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth day after publication

in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of2006, as amended, M.C.L. 

and Section 4-118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:



Lawrence T. Garcia,
Corporation Counsel

THE MID

3760 WOODWAHD AVENUE





inErwin-4? 





..

l  .





41'.
- 
. - 

 

Design for activation Introduce multi- Enrich existing Strengthen Midtown Link urban ecosystems
seasonal public space neighborhoods retail environment

 

 
 

I I
NEW 3?
CENTER 1 . 31134
?m UPPEREAST .
5 CENTRAL MIDDLEEAST
CENTRAL

 

. E) D-LINE
cl - .-

 

Key Districts Anchors

ROSA
PARKS 




. 

I

JEFFRIES

Traffic 

 

City Transportation





11 


'Linking Ecosystems {El75'"
"'12-'Zoning

 

Site Strategy Diagrams

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


I. II a I 7 
. 11 ulur Cm 

 

 

 

 

 


I 

Site Strategy Diagrams

Site Strategy Diagrams

 

 

 

 

 

 


:1

r. 1. Erlr-_-l\ l' 

Plaza 1

 

Plaza 2

 

 

 

 

 

spackman mossop michaels

Vehicle Traffic


Building Program 

- 
co .5 IOUSII IO
new-MG
sun/mus
unnu
PI AZA

LUlUl'y Bouthua Hohl
- 209.435 SF Toml

- 21.456 SF 
- 17 Levels

223 keys
Luxury Condominiums
- 100,351 SF Tolnl
- 10 levels

Co-L1vlng Houslng
- 228,526 SF Tolnl

- SOD - 550 beds 4
Multi-Fam?lly Houslng .

- 325.474 SF Total .

- 30 LCVOIS 

- 200 unlts . .

- 2.10 beds . . 
. 

- 764 spaces
- 324 5005205 one 
- I

 

.. r. - ?wlu
'1
Reta"
- 28.730 Sl' 
- West 3 594 SF: "arm"
- East?awllon a
13.1l6 5F . 
John SF I . . 

Building Program

 

 ?31972? 


.





i%.z $3.22.

a. 
-



if

:55





.. 

can;

_n
i


a 1.41mi,?



. 'Uu?ruh?mm 



 

If


.1 ll'

. ?r I


?lm;
gP?'
-. 
i?
-

fll'h
Li" 
4; I



 

 . luv. .
. ?an.
fa



 

 ?Inf?::Ill
1' i

[Eva- 1 If? 1!llmn




It
IL.

in.

 

 

. 19"" 
I 

"1.1



ml. ?pm

.

11:1"- ?3 1' 1'
I 3f.1.

 

1h?

Hamid n'
xii-ill! 

all

3- ml '1



MEZCRGU "in?r

Wu


115W

 

 

 

?all: 

First Floor Plan



 

E1 
Bi

 

.--Futque Retail
J. i ii

122:.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"'13b

 

 

 

 

LIMEIf. I.I.- I I I .rinun-IX: I

 

 

 

aims?.2." lP-L?rn. LII. II).
I: 35!. Lil SPLIT-J 
mgr-Ii ingig
:Bimm . E2. .1?an mac? .2. ?@336 5 MP

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

12$

 

 

 

 

 


3
?'-Hllill I
Lg. 
null-murmur 
'3
and-H..? a I
93*
mm?? 
saunaProposed Interior Elevation: North Wall {Windows} i
'ffl'mIrv: :1 1' _lr T: 535rmluuq no



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


HAPHER I 
?Em


 

?hru? h, 1 ir 


 

 

 

Proposed Interior Elevation: South Wall (Bar?t Kitcheg Seating)

ELI l??hfrr

 

?In all -. .41? 
anon-Immanu- ban-n
r- 

 

 

 

'r a -l 



 

 

 

   

 


mamutm/ .
huh?-?mh?l?d II 

 

 

 

 

 

It
I:

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?HE-"Wilma maeunam?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. . . .. .-
L?m?an? 
Id" 
Proposed Interior Elevation: Back Bar Elevation: East Bar Area HevatiOn: West Bar Elevation: West Bari Section A4
Ill 4" War w-lt-l-r i I.

 

07

Alt Brenda Goss Andrews
Chgirggs?n Etty at Ectrult Lisa Whitmore Davis
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 03"? Espal?za, AIA, LEED

Vice Chair/Secretary

Damion W. Ellis
Gregory Pawlowski

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Marcel] R. Todd, Jr. DetrOita MiChiga-n 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.

Director

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb
e-mail: 

June 21, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Neumam?Smith Architecture to amend Article XVII, District Map 4, of the 1984
Detroit City Code Chapter 61, Zoning, and the provisions of the existing FD-H
(Flamed Development District-Historic) zoning classi?cation for the property
commonly known as 100 Mack Avenue, generally bounded by Eliot Street and the
portion of vacated Eliot Street on the north, John R. Street on the east, Erskine Street
on the south and Woodward Avenue on the west.

The request will facilitate the construction of a multi-level parking deck with ?rst
?oor retail/ commercial space. Additionally, the request includes plans for an adjacent
open space amenity.

RECOMMENDATION

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has completed its review and consideration of the above
captioned request. Based upon the ?ndings outlined in this report, the Commission recommends
approval of the requested PD modi?cation and the proposed SOMA development with the following
conditions:

1. That the developer work with the immediately adjacent community to minimize disruption to
the neighborhood during construction and operation of the proposed deck and address
impacts that may arise;

2. That the developer work with the City Flaming Commission and Flaming and Development
Department staff to ensure that all safety design concerns have been addressed to the extent
practicable; and

3. That ?nal site plans, elevations, lighting, landscape and signage plans be submitted by the
developer to the staff of the City Flaming Commission for review and approval prior to
submitting applications for applicable permits.

NATURE OF REQUEST

Before the Commission is the request of Neumam-Smith Architecture to amend Article XVII,
District Map 4, of the 1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61, Zoning, and the provisions of the
existing FD-H (Flamed Development District-Historic) zoning classi?cation for the property
commonly known as 100 Mack Avenue, generally bounded by Eliot Street and the portion of



vacated Eliot Street on the north, John R. Street on the east, Erskine Street on the south and
Woodward Avenue on the west.

The request is planned to facilitate the construction of a multi-level parking deck with ?rst ?oor
retail/commercial space. Additionally, the request includes plans for an adj acent open space
amenity.

The property owner and developer, Adam Nyman of Woodward Mack 22, LLC is proposing to
erect this multi-level parking deck with ?rst ?oor retail space along with an adjacent park/open
space at the parcel commonly known as 100 Mack Avenue in the Brush Park Historic District.

w-

 

The project is planned just east of Woodward and between Erskine Street and the partially closed
Eliot Street. The structure is proposed to be ?ve (5) stories totaling 94 feet (inclusive of a
penthouse roof) with a total gross square footage of 213,099 gsf. The structure would include
591 spaces in total. The development team anticipates that the project would produce 40
temporary jobs and 10 permanent jobs. Their goal would be to break ground on the project on
March 1, 2019 and complete construction by March 1, 2020, ?lling the retail space by June 1,
2020.

SOMA (South of Mack) as it is currently referred to, is according to the development team
intended to be used for the surrounding neighborhood users. The parking operator, Premier
Parking would be responsible for the operation of the 24 hour parking deck that would offer
passes and also accommodate transient users.

A parking attendant would be on?site during the morning and evening rush hours. During other
hours, the structure would be monitored by a ?roaming manager.? Automated gates with access
badges would also be incorporated for users. Parking security is planned to be on-site as well.

The subject site as it currently exists, hosts 187 parking spaces. The structure that is proposed
would replace this ground level off-street parking with the approximately 591 spaces planned for
the deck. A portion of this space would also serve as the park/open space that the developer
plans.

The users of the deck according to staffs understanding, also include proposed future
developments that are scheduled to come before the Commission in the coming months, such as
the Elmwood Hotel that is being planned off of Woodward Avenue.

There is also a possible lease agreement that is being negotiated between the developer and the
City for space at the Red Cross building(s). If the City strikes an agreement to move certain
1departments to the Red Cross site, then there is also the liklihood that those users would also
utilize the parking deck for day-to-day parking. After work hours, the developer plans to serve
more transient users that visit the area.

The site is a part of a larger property controlled largely by the same entity. The property in
question, is labeled Parcel 1 in the subsequent parcel map.

 

1 Possible departments that might move to the site abutting the parking structure include the General Services
Department, Health Department and Department of Transporatation. The departments, would occupy 90% of the
space with a ten year lease in the two Red Cross buildings that abut the subject property. If executed, approximately
400-500 employees would be relocated to the Red Cross buildings. The goal of this move would be to serve citizens
in a more centrally located area of the City and to consolidate departmental staff into one place. This would allow
for an easier process for citizens and increased ef?ciency. This project is not anticipated to come before CPC.

3

 

 

 

 

  
 

  
 
 

 

. suliur
ml PARCEL 




EJOT IT.

 

 

 

Ft 311 3?1
(60' now;

        
    

 

53912011: M: 


 

-.: 

 



 



3 PARCEL 5

Parcel 107 Park

 

15" I49 73'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ParceH (well slde)- Parcel 1 (partial east side]-
. 

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: PD: Red Cross site

East: PD: Existing two (2) story residential/of?ce building
South: PD: The Scott apartment building

West: PD: Michigan State Building

ANALYSIS

This project is generally in conformance with the PD District design criteria of Sec. 61-11-15 of
the Zoning Ordinance. Some of the criteria that are considered as a part of the process are as
outlined:

Master Plan. The proposed development should re?ect applicable policies stated in the Detroit
Master Plan. The policies relating to the geographic area in question as well as general policies
will be considered. This zoning ordinance requires that the proposed major land use be
consistent with the adopted Master Plan in all PD developments.

The Flaming and Development Department has submitted a Master Plan Determination, stating
4

that the proposed development does conform to the MP Future Land Use designation. Regarding
the City of Detroit Master Plan of Policies, the subject property is located in the Lower
Woodward area of Neighborhood Cluster 4. The future land use designation for the subject
parcels indicates (MRC) Mixed Residential-Commercial. ?These areas are often characterized by
medium-to-high density housing developed compatibly with commercial and/or institutional
uses.?

Scale, form, massing, and density. Scale, form, massing and density should be appropriate to
the nature of the project and relate well to surrounding development. Compatibility. The
proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in terms of land use,
general appearance and function, and should not adversely a?ect the value of properties in the
immediate vicinity.

The scale, form, massing and density proposed for this development are appropriate for a site of
this nature. The proposed parking structure abuts a Major Street and Mass Transit Route in
Neighborhood Cluster 4 according to the Master Plan of Policies. Woodward is the spine of the
City and serves as an appropriate thoroughfare for dense development, especially, those within
the greater downtown area. The development is proposed to have ground level commercial
spaces that will help to activate the pedestrian realm.

As it relates to the massing and form of the structure, city staff did have meetings for
approximately a year to understand how the development might be improved by incorporating a
liner building to mask the parking element from the street. This would have been desired by CPC
and PDD staff in the beginning. However, after a series of meetings and studies that were
conducted, the developer concluded that the proposal was not feasible for the constraints of the
site.

While the density, in terms of person(s) able to be accommodated by the structure, will be low.
The structure will however, serve the purpose of housing the many vehicles for the Red Cross
site that would otherwise be located at grade level surface parking. In essence, the structure will
allow for much greater density for the overall site, as developments such as the West Elm Hotel
are now being considered to locate on the surrounding area and utilize the SOMA structure for
parking.

Circulation. Vehicular and pedestrian circulation facilities should be adequately designed to
meet expected demands. Disruption of tra?ic flow in surrounding areas should be minimized,
and truck traffic should be carefully planned and controlled, especially to avoid use of
residential streets.

Circulation and pedestrian safety have been the central issue of concerns surrounding the SOMA
development proposal. For that reason, the City?s Mayor?s Of?ce has been integral in ?nding
mitigation strategies that will not only help the SOMA project, but the existing traf?c issues that
exist now. The measures that the Mayor?s Of?ce, Detroit Police Department and the Department
of Public Works have committed to include the following:

1. The intersection of Edmund and John will be converted from two-way to all way stop
controlled.

2. Pedestrian crossing signs with blinking lights will be installed at the intersection of
Watson and John R.

3. Yield to pedestrian signs will be installed in the crosswalks at the intersection of Watson
and John R.

4. Yield to pedestrian signs will be installed at the intersection of Eliot and John R.

5. Pedestrian crossing signs with blinking lights will be installed at the intersection of Eliot
Street and John R.

6. Spaces on Erskine will be marked as loading areas to alleviate congestion and double
parking while trucks unload for the Scott apartments and commercial/retail business.

7. The DPD Commander for the precinct has committed to allocating resources during high
traf?c event nights by deploying of?cers to ticket and mitigate traf?c.

This is in addition to zebra cross walks that were installed last fall at Watson and John and
Erskine and John R.

Parking and loading. Where appropriate, adequate vehicular o?-street parking and loading
should be provided. The City Planning Commission will be guided by standards delineated in
this zoning ordinance with adjustments appropriate to each specific situation.

While this proposed parking garage with commercial space is holds many more spaces that what
would be required for the ground ?oor commercial space (approximately 60 spaces) it can be
argued that the structure will provide relief to the entirety of the Red Cross site which is expected
to experience much change in coming years. Currently there is the proposal from the West Elm
Hotel development that would occupy 116 spaces of the proposed SOMA parking deck. This is
One of several developments and deals that are expected to come to fruition as this site is
expanded and built out.

The subject property being on a prime piece of real estate in the greater downtown area, locating
on Woodward Avenue a major street, which is the spine of the city and just off of Mack Avenue
which is another major street, it is expected that very dense development will take place on this
site as more development interest grows in this area. So while the SOMA development might
usually not be the most desired type of development in and of itself, if looking at the site
holistically, it can add to the larger picture of how parking will be accommodated for a site that
will have dense developments overall.

The current Red Cross uses alone could utilize a sizeable amount of the parking deck if they are
?lled (which there is a possible deal being negotiated for City Departments to locate in the
existing Red Cross buildings) which would take a sizable amount of the parking stalls in the
structure in addition to the already anticipated hotel.

There are currently an approximate 383 surface level off-street parking spaces that exist on the
Red Cross site. If built the SOMA parking deck would replace the portion of the site that houses
187 spaces and replace that footprint with a structure that holds 591 spaces. There is a case to be
made that this would be a more ef?cient use of the current surface parking lot space and help the
site (See site plan below).

 

1451;??
eiiziievmce
meantime ii
il?? eeacas







-. . 
V. . -
ham- ?ne I l,
a:


inn-m

axne?umi?
malaise 
an? emcee 




eman-

wr- 

J. .
isEnvironmental impacts. Environmental impacts that relate to such factors as noise, air,
combustibles and explosives, gases, soil, and water pollution, toxic waste, vibration, odor, glare,
and radiation, should be controlled to be within acceptable levels at all times.

A case could be made that this parking deck would add to the noise and air pollution of the site
and it likely will bring slight increase in undesirable conditions. However, based on the traf?c
study that was conducted and spoken to at the public hearing by Giffels and Webster, it is not
expected that the parking structure will induce more traf?c, but instead simply alleviate parking
and traf?c problems that currently exist, at least regarding the traf?c that is a result of uses that
are being served on site. Given the amount of on-street parking that takes place currently on any
event night, one could also argue that this could alleviate ?zsharking.?

 

2 The continual revolving search for on?street parking spaces by commuters as they clog streets until a space
becomes available.

Orientation. Careful consideration should be given to orientation both for solar access to the
proposed project and for shadow impact upon surrounding development.

Again, CPC would have desired that the front facing facade of the building that faces Erskine,
not be that of a parking structure. However, based on the studies that the developer has
conducted and the limitations that have been found, staff has digressed on the issue of the portion
of the development that is oriented towards Erskine Street and what this facade looks like.

Signage. Signage and graphics should be tastefully designed to be visually appealing and in
character with surrounding development. They should provide needed information, direction,
and orientation in a clear and concise manner.

CPC also strongly encourages that the City be allowed to have full review over any signage that
is placed on the subject building, so that the signage is not overwhelming to the street scape. We
will work with HDC staff to ?nalize. Signage that has been shown in renderings is likely not
desirable for this building and other tasteful signage will be explored.

Amenities. Special attention should be given to amenity and comfort considerations such as
provision for outdoor seating, restrooms for public use, bicycle storage, convenience of access
points, and protectionfrom harsh weather through features as enclosed walkways and arcaded
pedestrian areas.

One of the best features this site is that it will be creating park/open space amenity adjacent to
the structure. The park would complement the commercial and retail space that it rests alongside.
This will serve to create even more synergy for the businesses as well as bring alive a site that
has been dormant for decades serving only as surface parking. This will be a major amenity for
the community as the developer plans for it to remain a public space. This help to ?ll the void of
a lack of open spaces in the Brush Park neighborhood and supplement other City efforts that are
also underway.

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
The development team has provided letters of support from the Brush Park CDC and Midtown
Detroit Inc. as well as one additional supporter (See attached letters).

In addition to this, CPC staff also requested that the developer hold an additional meeting in the
immediate area and reach out to the neighbors on the subject street. The developer held this
meeting on January 9th. CPC staff attended and about 10 residents and stakeholders were at the
meeting. The meeting was held in the communal area so there were also many people that passed
by and observed the drawings that were on display. Some concerns regarding traf?c impacts
were raised. These concerns were taken into consideration by Giffels and Webster during their
traf?c study and reported on. Overall those in attendance were seemingly acceptant of the
proposal. No opposition was stated. Some favorable comments were given.

At the CPC public hearing, three individuals spoke to the project. One was a representative from
Midtown Detroit Inc. who spoke in support of the proposed parking deck stating that this will
help the parking problems for the area. The representative also spoke to the need for shared
parking for multiple projects in the area that will allow parking to concentrate instead of being
dispersed neighborhood wide. Additionally, a representative from Giffels and Webster spoke

8

regarding a traf?c study that had been conducted for this site and surrounding area that
concludes that the parking deck would not have any overbearing negative impact on the
neighborhood, but would only alter traf?c conditions (this study was provided in staff?s
original report for this matter).

Another speaker was a resident who spoke in opposition to the proposal because of the size and
scale of the parking structure. The person also spoke to this development having a negative
impact on the neighboring community. Speci?cally the resident spoke to dangerous traf?c
conditions that exist on John and the fear that the proposed garage will exacerbate the current
issues (to this issue, the Mayor?s Of?ce has created a traf?c calming mitigation plan to address
these issues. Please see staff analysis).

A representative from the Mayor?s Of?ce also spoke at the public hearing, stating that the
Mayor?s Of?ce would be taking this matter up and working with the appropriate departments to
create a traf?c mitigation plan.

The Brush Park CDC has submitted an updated letter of support attached to this report.

CONCLUSION
This request amounts to the provision of commercial parking, which is not consistent with the spirit
and intent of the never adopted Brush Park 4 Modi?ed Development.

However, existing and anticipated development require parking that the proposed structure can
supply. The end result, achieved via separate undertakings, we believe, will be a build out that does
achieve the vision of the Urban Renewal Plan. The traf?c issues present and future are real and will
require intervention and coordination with the City to support the desired density with the
redevelopment of this area. Staff supports implementation of the traf?c mitigation plan developed by
the Mayor?s Of?ce, the Department of Public Works and the Detroit Police Department. Staff will be
working with the administration on the progression of the plan and report back to the Commission as
appropriate.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcel] R. Todd, Jr., Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner
Attachment:
Ordinance
Plans
Map
Support Letter

Cc: Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
Arthur emison, Director, HRD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Detroit Housing Commission

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15., 

10

 

Januanr 10. 2013

Scott Gustafson

Newmann Smith Ard'iltecture
#00 Galleria, Suite 555
Southlield, MI #8034

RE: Support Development
Dear Mr. Gustafson:

On behalf of Midtown Detroit. Inc. lMDl], I would like to express our support for phase one of the
proposed SOMA Development, located at 315:: Woodward Avenue in the Brush Park neighborhood. This
development will provide a number of bene?ts, while enhancing the overall character at the
neighborhood.

Phase one of the proiect will be the development oi a mixed-use structure located on Erskine.
This structure will provide six levels of parkir?g, and ground level retail Spam. Future phases will call for
the oonstructlon of residential units above this parking structure. The overall plan calls [or over 400,000
square feet of mixed?use development that will bring new of?cei'retail spaue, hundreds of new
residential units. and plenty oi parking.

This overall development will Increase density and signi?cantly add to the number of residential units
within the Midtown district. The addition of mu commercial spaces will provide more economic
opportunity for new and growing businesses The oonstruction of contiguous urban wall space will
increase waillrablliw of the are: and add to the urban character of the neighborhood

The SONIA development aims to transform in important oorner along a busy corridor, and offers its
full support. if you have any questions, please feel free to contact me at our office.

Best regards.



Susan T. Mose?;
Executive Director

MIDTOWN onson. me. 3939 Woodward. Suite 100 2 Midtown Cobb
Detroit MI 43201 lP;313.410.6000 r: 313nm. saos

12

 RODER
SACHSE

January 31. 1013

Mr. Adam Hyman

Woodward Mack 22 LLC

Professional Property Management Inc
115 West Brown

airmlneham. Ml 43009

Re: Brush Park CDC Letter of?upport tor Brush Park Minted Use Proiect
Dear Mr. Hyman:

On behalf of Woodward 8i Erskine LLC. we enthusiastically support the. proposed SONIA development that
is planned for the southeast corner of Woodward and Mack Avenue. immediately north of our
development. the Scott at Brush Park.

We understand that the first phase of the proiect consists of a 550+ car parking deck and that a iuture
phase will include a vertical expansion for construction of residential units stove. The proposed design
of the deck presents a thoughtful response to the neighborhood's form-based code, providing an
activated alley with retail shops and pedestrian circulation access, restored Eliot Street connecting.
Woodward with John R. and providing new landscaping and recreation space hemeen existing office,
historic home and the proposed parking deck.

We believe that this development will continue to generate further investmer't in the Midtown area. We
look [onward to being neighbors across Erskine Street.

Since rely,

BRODER 8i SACHSE HEAL ESIATE. lnc.. Agent for
WOODWARD ERSHIME,

   

Richard Broder
CEO

Cc: City of Detroit Planning Development

200 East Brown Street Suite Bill) Birmingham, MI 48009
Jail-l 6414100 
BroderSadtse.cnm

13

Brad 73am?



234 Winder Street - Detroit, MI 48201 - - 

 

April 18, 2019

Joel Smith

ARCHITECTURE
JSmith@neumannsmith.com

Re: Parking Deck

The Brush Park Community Development Corporation (the forwards this letter in reSponse to the
proposed Parking Deck development for the property located on Erskine (the roject?).

The updated Project plan for the proposed new construction of a 5 story stand-alone parking deck was
presented before the CDC and the Brush Park community at a public meeting held on March 19, 2019.
There were limited comments received by the Community, which were generally not supportive ofaspects
of the project.

After careful consideration, by a vote of 4 in favor and 5 objections, the Board voted to decline to support
the Project. We understand that our decision is a departure from our prior support of the project, and
Attachment A contains the opinions offered by the Board during the voting process for your consideration
and provide explanation on the result of the Board's vote.

Should you have questions or concerns, please feel to reach out to us at 

 

Sincerely,

W1

Karissa Holmes, Secretary

Cc City of Detroit Planning Development
Historic District Commission

 

Brush Park Community Development Corporation

Attachment A: Poll Comments for Parking Deck"

Below are the opinions submitted by CDC Board Members during the voting process for reference and
consideration. Please note, the opinions have no bearing on the Board's final vote and are included for
reference only.

Comment 1

While I support the development of the parking structure in general because I believe it is necessary to
support the development of the West Elm hotel, I am not in support (and do not believe that the
community supports) the current traffic plan/ingress/egress, and based upon the developers "traffic
study? do not believe that they will seriously consider the valid concerns of our community if we provide
support on this project. The traffic study is seriously deficient and they did not even attempt to address
the first question: "Erskine traffic levels are already ad capacity and increased traffic will cause significant
delays and undue hardship for the surrounding area". The developer has provided no justification for why
traffic cannot flow from Eliot, other than the fact that it does not seem to want to do so. The developer
seems to be completely disregarding the very real concerns of residents and business owners who live
with the impact of traffic in Brush Park on a daily basis. We have seen how a 30 car parking lot on Winder
has created serious traffic impediments and safety concerns and the developer has not adequately
addressed how they plan to mitigate those concerns. I would ask that the developer move ingress/egress
to Eliot, which is a non?residential street. Lastly, although the CDC supported this deck in the past, we
believed that the developer would develop residential above the deck and that is why we supported it.
We do not generally support stand-alone parking decks as we do not want our neighborhood to become
a parking lot/deck. It is very disappointing that the developer has decided to no longer move forward with
the residential portion of this development and that it has no clear plans to develop the rest of the land it
controls.

Comment 2
I wholeheartedly agree with and second each concern articulated by [Comment 1]

Comment 3

support the overall project, however I object to using Erskine as the main entrance/exit. It makes more
sense to use Eliot, especially since there are no residential properties on that block of Eliot. The residents
of Brush Park do not want MORE event-related traffic/congestion.

Comment 4

While a very different version of this project was previously approved, my contention at the time was
building a parking deck in the neighborhood, however I approved at the time because it was mixed use
with residential, and more important to me it was closer to Woodward than the interior of the
neighborhood. Subsequently, when another development wanted to build a parking deck within the
interior of the neighborhood, our previous approval of SOMA was brought up as precedence by both the
city and developer because ofthis I cannot support a stand-alone parking structure within Brush Park with
no ancillary use such as the residential that was previously attached to the project. i support the Bonstelle
development and understand a parking deck is needed to support it, but listening to the concerns of the
community to this and other developments i cannot support the proposal as is.

Comment 5

echo the thoughts of other Board members in that I strongly do not support a stand-alone parking
structure in the neighborhood, and the intent of the original plan presented years ago has significantly
changed. There is no reason why this building cannot be and should not be truly mixed use, where parking
is an ancillary use rather than the primary use as it is in this case. Not only would it set a dangerous

2 I-

precedent in the neighborhood, but specific to this parcel, it would not maximize or even come close to
reaching the potential of this site. It would also negatively impact residents in this immediate area and
diminish the urban fabric of this block. The structure should not be approved without residential, office,
and/or a similarly active use as the primary use, with enough parking only to support those primary uses
and the adjacent hotel. There are many other design solutions for this site that do not include 500+ public
parking spaces; the CDC would be happy to discuss some of those with the developer if they are having
design challenges and/or having trouble understanding the Brush Park community's goals. Furthermore,
residents are generally not supportive of this project based on comments at the March CDC meeting. It is
also general consensus among the community that standalone parking structures should not be allowed
anywhere.

Comment 6

Until they can provide a solid feasible plan for handling traffic at that corner of Brush Park which feeds
into a heavily used intersection at Woodward Avenue and Mack Avenue, I cannot support building a 5
story parking lot and, especially since it's use would be seriously questioned in the absence of proximal

commercial and residential activity.

SUMMARY
An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zaning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 4 to modify
an existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation, established by ordinance 39?
07, on land generally bounded by Eliot Street and a portion of vacated Eliot Street to the north,
John R. Street to the east, Erskine Street to the south, and Woodward Avenue to the west to allow
for the construction of a multi-level parking deck with ?rst ?oor retail-commercial space and an

adjacent open space-park area.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zaning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map No. 4 to modify
an existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation, established by ordinance 39-
07, on land generally bounded by Eliot Street and a portion of vacated Eliot Street to the north,
John R. Street to the east, Erskine Street to the south, and Woodward Avenue to the west to allow
for the construction of a multi-level parking deck with ?rst floor retail-commercial space and an
adjacent open space-park area.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Article XVII of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code is amended as
follows:
District Map No. 4 is amended to modifv the existing PD {Planned Development
District) zoning classi?cation currentlv shown on:

PARCEL 1:

Part of lot 3. also all of 10154 5 7 14.15 and 16 and art of the east-west vacated

 

20 and 2 Land part of Brush Farm adioinina. as recorded in Liber Smpage of Plats,

Wayne County Records, also being described as: Beginning at the southwest corner

ol?said lot 7, also being a point on the northerly line of Erskine Street [60' wide} and

a oint on the easterl line of a north?south vacated alle 20' wide the ce N.

         

300.08 feet to the northwest corner of said lot 14: thence 

161.00 feet to the northeast corner of said lot 16' thence 149.78 feet'

 

thence 50.00 feet: thence 149.74 on said
northerlv line: thence 3.60. 229.13 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing:_5 3.4.24.6? square feetor 1.34 1 acres

PARCEL 6:

Vacated Eliot Street {60' wide}. lving between Woodward Avenue (120' wide. as

widened} and John R. Street (60'wide), adjacent to lots 13 through 20, block 10. also

being adiacent to lots 1 through 8. block 13. Brush's Subdivision ofoart of park lots

17. 13. 19. 20 and 2].and part of Brush Farm adioinina.as recorded in liber image 12

of olats. WaLne County Records, also being described as: Beginning at the southeast

 

corner of said lot thence 3.26? 1201" E. 60.12 feet to the northeast corner of said
lot 20: thence 549.95 feet to a point on the easterly line of said
Woodward Avenue: thence 60.12 feet: thence 549.90
feet to the goint of beginning.

Containintt: 32.996.185quare feet or 0.757acres

PARCEL 7:

All ofvacated alley adiacent to lots 13, 14, and gart of lot block 10, Brush's
Subdivision of part of Qark lots 17. 18, 19, 20 and 21, and gart of Brush Farm

ad ioin ing, as recorded in Liber 8, gage 12 ofplats. Wayne County Records,also being

described as: Beginning at the northeast corner ofsaid lot 13: thence 1 7'00" E.

20.04 Feet to the northwest corner of said lot 14: thence 140.04 feeL

thence 20.04 feet to a point on the easterly line ol?said lot 11; thence

feet to the Doint ofbeginn ing.

Containina: 2.80084 square feet or 0.064 acres

repeal approval of the site plans, elevations, and other components of any development proposal
described in Ordinance No. 39-07 for the property described herein and to approve the site plans,
elevations, and other components of the development proposal for the SOMA project, as depicted
in the drawings prepared by Neumann Smith Architecture, dated November 27, 2018.

(B) All site plans. elevations. and other components of the development proposals

identi?ed in Subsection (A) of this Section are subiect to the following conditions:

(I) The developer must work with the immediatelv adiacent communitv to minimize
disruption to the neinhborhood during construction and address impacts that mav
arise: and

(2) The developer must work with the City Planning. Commission staff and Plannina
and Development Department to ensure that all safetv design concerns have been
addressed to the extent p_ossible, to staff?s reasonable satisfaction: and

(3) All ?nal site plans. elevations. liahtina, landscape and signage plans for the
development are subiect to review and approval bv the Citv Planning Commission
staff prior to the developer?s application for applicable building or construction


Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

health, safety and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

1 Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (3th) day after publication
2 in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, M.C.L. 

3 and Section 4-118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:



Lawrence T. Garcia,
Corporation Counsel

 

 

I'm; 16505151? Eh? 

 

 

59
MA

 

 

ML 1%

 

11.27.2018

.mr-f rv-L
931-11-

project location in detroit

 

 

   
 

Jan?2.1?
(H 

. ..
i
_2 195:5 2.3.5
522126

.3.7.5324.) E3.


mD?m 
53225; 325

gum?2.02? 

mimm2_02m

 

 

I 1 . .4 1. 
_Ixir.I. .Irll I. I. 

I
I 1.. all


.I.I . 5 .II.I1..-11?.

II

 


.1


I .I 

I .II. I. I. 
sin.II 1.1. 1.

IiiI555. I 55:: II I 
.II. u: .I. .I..II .. I: I Ill_ 
1.5.5.3. I.

 

   

 

 

 

     

  
   
   
   
    
 
 
 
     

 

 

I. .I.. .udll I'll lT? JR

I n.


. 

_?19111..II.. r. 

 

 

 
 

.lel4.915131.111.II1.1.:

 

 

 

 

 

 

I 

 

 

 





111.. I154 

 

 

 

 

 

.. .I .. .II

I .. .lil .11. .i .Itl. 5- II I 3 .. 1.55 a.

I I. 

.I.I
.II

 


?r?zhi?10.1431.1Ii.siz_. ..
I1 .IILI

   

 

 

 

I'Lll 



 



 

 

59
MA

11.27.2018

 

 

PROPOSED BUILDING

. 5 LEVELS ABOVE GRADE - VISUALLY APPEARS LIKE A 5 LEVEL BUILDING

580 AUTOMOBILE PARKING STALLS

- ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING I PRIORITY PARKING FDR EN. AND ALTERNATIVE FUELS
. 4 TO 6 COMMERCIAL SPACES (OFFICES. RESTAURANT: CAFE. SPECIALTY SHOPS. ETC.)

KEY PROJECT GOALS

RESTORE GAPS IN THE URBAN AND CULTURAL FABRIC

ACTIVATE THE STREET WITH PEDESTRIAN AND COMMERCIAL VIBRANCY

BALANCE BUILDING MASS AND GARDEN SPACE

SERVE THE COMMUNITY WITH PRIVATELY OWNED PUBLIC SPACES FOR DAILYACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL EVENTS

SITE 

- ACTIVATED ALLEY WITH RETAIL SHOPS AND PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION ACCESS STAIRS AND ELEVATOR)
- RESTORED ELIOT STREET CONNECTING WARD AVENUE TO JOHN 
- AND RECREATION SPACE BETWEEN EXISTING OFFICE. HISTORIC HOME AND PROPOSED

PRIMARY EXTERIOR MATERIALS
WHITE PRECAST CONCRETE COLUMNS AND SPANDRELS
SAN BLASTE PRECAST CONCRETE STAIRAND ELEVATOR TOWERS
LUMBER SCREENS

. CLEAR 
- ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALLS

L. E. D. LIGHT
ZONING

- PD and PD-H ZONES

 

summary

19

tsite

prejec

.

M.



?r

11.27.2018

 


5M



 

 

 

 

Mu;

var-u

{-70 use:

uaonu?lp I.

  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOMA Fin Ish Park



 

 

 

 

    
   
 
 
   
 

  
 

 

 




mesa? 


culture2:33-53? I
II 1:03; I
i
ensues: a ,l


Landscane Schematic Desian
Hi "i 59 1127 2018
MIKE
Danna?nu:
{Dunn-?
rv-muuh-I 
1 u-II-?lu-Ir-


nun?~-
a mow-ut-
gwnu? un-
?rm??mr-w-

Lily?n. 
Eskimo-u?


. "r?w-y?dmu

The Brush Park Elements of Design guidelines identify
vacancy as the primary landscape characteristic. The
proposed project replaces two minimally landscaped
surface parking lots with an urban building and
a verdant park. This area contains a fountain, a
sculpture and lawns that contribute to the network of
green spaces in Brush Park. Additionally, it highlights
and makes publicly accessible the Victorian home on
Eliot Street owned by the University of Michigan. The
existing fence that forti?ed the institutional campus
from the neighborhood will be removed. The garden
provides a shortcut through the block towards the
public transit stops at Woodward Avenue and Mack

public realm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAR COUNT SUMMARY
arm con-Fm TOTAL
.I .. - 
I . 1
TOTALS .u-IuI?q

 

 

   

um- um.- -
'41'Il I-w'l-

 

 

 

II 

a:

 

 

LEVEL G13TH1FINGPLAN ..- .lull Gal-lhotftonlrc
Sula

pun-MI nil-MIXED-USE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT
MICHIGAN

4.201

   

unturn-
Il?Pll?l?I. 



100% BIDDING
AND PERMIT

guru.
I
.-. Un-u


nap-Fl]-

 

2:39;! 


 

?giu?ll 
LEVEL G1

STRIPING PLAN

8:119: I 
5:201

 

 

ICWI. I.: ..




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAR COUNT SUMMARY
MEN 
lEvElS mum WEE towm TOTAL

.TOTALS :4 In 591
LEVEL COLOR CHART

. i

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

u-q
many

 

 

 



 

am L'I?rmlm
hm. 1\
5nulm?hl1.Mhhban 430M
paw ?6.1525310

In 218.152. I621
nn?nmunnunlh com

39
MA


man-use 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTH
OF
MACK
AVENUE

DETROIT
MICHIGAN

48201

 





 

 

1003?. BIDDING
AND PERMIT

 

x: I 




b?

 

 

1111??.

LEVEL 62
STRIPING PLAN

Scale: 111!" - 
pim-

I
n- lute-r11.?

-- .

[infall'ww

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exterior elevations

 

54% 11.27.2018



 

 

 

 

 

VIEW LOOKING NORTH EAST

      

. 
VIEW LOOKING SOUTH EAST VIEW LOOKING SOUTH WEST

 

 

. neighborhood context
5 35111272013

.IHEHMJI

 

 



Mp" 

 

3?.er

     
 
  

lire proposed building has 6 levels of parting, but to tire casual observer, it appears like a 5-sia1y
building. ibis ?ts with the character of the neigh barlrood buildings between i and 11 stories.

011 the immediate bladr, ilrelwa?ed Cross buildings areZ and3 storm tall lire MSUDeiroit (enterlsz
slorles and tire Bansielie Meaterbas a height af4 stories measured to the tap af?re dome and the ?y

loft Across ErskineSireetthesoulb, iireScams 5 stories iall-faurieveis overaparlmenlsorr aground
?oarretailpodium.

 

massing and scale

it)

 

 

33 11.27.2018

 

 

The proposed building has open areas in the facade
averaging 30% on all four elevations. This ?ts with
the dominant character ofthe district with openings
between 15% and 35% of the facade area.

  
   

I I till-ililI? ..

I I I Iliili Ii II .I
I Illil-IliIli ll 

I I1 '5 li- IIJII All: I. II

I I II Iml'. Ir Itzllu Ir Ir I II: I olitEI' II-

I ll Illill II. I Ill-19:- Iill ILII Iill Iii. iliIllit. NI IJI ILII In. liII I i I 

 

 

massing and scale

 

3.9 11.27.2018


 

 

 

3  or. 


The proposed building is wider than it is tall on all
four sides.The structural expression and architectural

 
 
 
   
 
 
     
  
 
 
  

screen is designed to emphasize the vertical
dimension ofthe building.


ll - H.137.
The building has openings in the screen which appear

?Ha .i'm lm like windows in varying widths. All the openings at
.. the parking areas are 5 feettall. The screen itself has

. two different densities. The design of the facades
. doesnothavethe 'duarly yprca 

Humid. ?31? ., 1 modern architecture, or most parking structures.The

. 15" 35"? 4 .3 playfulness ofthe design masks the sobriety of the

underlying function.

warmers-nae

 

came II - IMIIKJHAL mu rhumUrrAL 1.1 mm! Mitts-?? ?Tu. PUM?riElii'iIinrvl-

 

massing and scale

 

m: the 3% 11.27.2018
1L 

 

 

 

     

0n Erskine Street, the plinth respects the height ofthe
MSU Detroit Center and continues the urban street wall.

.- The proposed building maintains
the zero?setback line of the adjacent
MSU Detroit Center reinforcing the
urban street wall. The height of
the ground floor plinth respects
the roof line. Retail storefronts on
the Erskine Street and Eliot Street
I elevations promote vibrancy in the
public realm.

    

0n Eliot Street, a new urban street wall is
de?ned by the strong plinth and
wide sidewalk11272018

SMITH

 

 

urban response

 

 

 



. CORNICE

 

-, :1 A ORGANIZED AND CONSISTENT BAND FORTENANT
I SIGNAGE

TRANSOM

DISPLAY WINDOW
ENTRY

BULKHEAD

    
 

DIAGRAM SOURCE: CITY OF PDD GUIDELINES FORCOMMERCIAL The proposed building incorporates the traditional
elements of a storefront with a contemporary design
style. Columns are spaced 12 feet on center to break
down the scale of the building to legible human

proportions.

Hr mulls Murell 

The National Bank of Detroit Building (Qube)

. . .. .. designed by Albert Kahn Associates served as a
53/ I 3 design reference for the clarity of the street level
- - . - I plinth separated from the repetitive of?ce ?oors

above.

urban response

 

 

Ill? 31-: 11.27.2018
5 I 

 

 

 



.r dpimnl Emu-311? Themlumn: and 

mnmriar? 11.5141?
and vim-aim [mantra sandblaswd'gniy mm
and clear 91.355. Hii?: color 01 {he whitL- {ammu-
is IE hr: with ildjrimi-nl

Harlan" '1 Them: and Lin: HIE-U [10mm [enter Lmlil
by Filhar'. Hahn Mandates. The men-n
sunnundin? Thl." bu?diug ?l?fll? 1mm L'xtrm'h?d:
wusurltm rutyil??d piantI-r. In dink him"
and grey(131015..Timbuidmiurinnd patternz- 
the 1mili1innal ar-rhitE-me nf termcrim and glazed
hrii?k in Darryl.

    
  

ii_

.

1; I 
Building {aim and like 
the Hunr rd Parking Slimline"

miilhmiihnn



1

Wf47""~rvf1 i 
tilt/J ff I 

. .- H-l- - I 4' 
1.11:5 I HEIH-EI. HEATER I .x L-E FIT HEnI?q'r t? PARK-H smuuru
EXPOSED CONCRETE FRAME AND GLASS CREAM COLORED LIMESTONE RUNNING BOND MODULE 0F WINDOWSAND MARBLE PANELS EXPRESSIVE SCREEN T0 CONCEALAUTDMOBILES - I

mm 3.9 11.27.2018

   



 

 

 

 

 

bublic realm

 

 


10

11.27.2018

 

 

 

3:


 

 

DETROIT

 

PAINT 10R STEEL (OLUMNSI ALUMINUM MULLIUNS

55

RECTANGULAR SCRIM STICKS

11.27.2018

 

(MU INFILL

?nish board

(o7

 

CEMENT BOARD PAINT ALUMINUM ROUND SCRIM STICKS RECTANGULAR SCRIM STICKS COLUMNS AND SPANDIIELS
OPTION A

.IO

11.27.2018 ?nish board

08

Alton James Brenda Goss-Andrews
Chairperson alt? of It Lisa Whitmore Davis

Damion W. Ellis

Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Esparza, LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Marcell R. Todd, .lr. Detroit, Michigan 48226 3- Rum": Jr-
. . ., Angy Webb
Phone. (313) 224-6225 Fax. (313) 224-4336

e-mail: 

June 21, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of 112 Edmund Place, LLC to modify the provisions of an existing PD-H
(Planned Development-Historic) zoning district on Article XVII, District Map 4 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, to allow for a mixed-use building to include
commercial and residential space on property commonly known as 112 Edmund Place
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL).

RECOMMENDATION

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has completed its review of the above captioned request.
Based on the information that was provided at the public hearing, the public testimony that was
submitted and the work that the developer has adhered to, in order to meet City and community
requests, CPC recommends approval of this petition. This recommendation includes the
following conditions:

1. That the developer work with the immediately surrounding property owners to minimize
disruption to the neighborhood during construction and address impacts that may arise;

2. That the developer work to mitigate any possible unforeseen concerns and work with the
CPC staff to further re?ne any aspect of the project design if necessary;

3. That the developer work with the neighbor immediately adjacent to the west to add a
possible brick masonry wall and/or vegetative buffer as appropriate between subject lots
working with the subject neighbor and to be done to CPC staff?s satisfaction;

4. That the developer would address setback concerns of the adjacent property known as the
Lucien Moore, to mitigate outstanding issues to CPC staff? 3 satisfaction; and

5. That the developer submit final site plans and elevations, landscaping, lighting, and
signage plans to the CPC staff.

BACKGROUND

This matter first came before the City Planning Commission in 2018. The original request
proposed to allow for a multi-building mixed-use development on the subject block to provide
two buildings which would include office, retail, commercial and residential space and to also
construct a parking structure with retail and commercial space on the ground level. The project

1

originally consisted ofthree (3) buildings total at 1 12 Edmund, 2827 John R. and 105 Alfred
Street.

The City Planning Commission approved this overall project in 2018, however, the matter never
advanced to City Council. Since then the project before this Honorable Body has been refined to
only the scope ofthe 12 Edmund building proposal for the parcel located at John R. and
Edmund Place. The other portions of the original project will be presented at a later date. The
developer has also made modifications to the 1 12 Edmund design that have improved the project
and also addressed some of the neighbor?s concerns even after the original approval by the City
Planning Commission of the wholistic project in 2018.

PROPOSAL

 

The developer is currently seeking to move forward with a project known as 112 Edmund

which is a mixed-use residential building at the intersection of John R. Street and Edmund Place
in Brush Park. The ground ?oor is planned to house parking and 1,000 sf of commercial space at
the corner of John and Edmund. The above floors would include 36 residential units with the
overall height of the building being five (5) and four (4) stories at different portions ofthe
building which incorporates as step down. The building would have 49, 540 gross square feet
Units would range from 639 sfto 1294 sf. Construction is desired to begin in 2020 and end
in 2022.

PUBLIC HEARING AND COMMUNITY INPUT

At the original CPC hearing in 2018, some residents from the Carlton spoke to concerns about
their downtown views being obstructed by the then proposed seven (7) story building (since then
the building has been lowered to ?ve stories). Other concerns were raised as well. Some
members ofthe public spoke in support.

Since then for various reasons, the project has been modified as previously mentioned in this
report. The building massing has been drastically reduced. After many public discussions on this
project, the Brush Park CDC has submitted a letter of support for the 112 Edmund proposal.

2

ANALYSIS
This project is generally in conformance with the PD District design criteria of Sec. 61-1 1-15 of
the Zoning Ordinance. review is as follows:

Criterion Master Plan outlines that this zoning ordinance requires that the proposed major
land use be consistent with the adopted Master Plan in all PD developments.

Regarding the City of Detroit Master Plan of Policies (MP), the subject property is located in the
Lower Woodward area of Neighborhood Cluster 4. The future land use designation for the
subject parcels indicates (MRC) Mixed Residential-Commercial. The Planning and Development
department has submitted a letter stating that this development will contribute to the mixed-use
character of the MP designation of the area. CPC concurs that the proposed development is
consistent with the MRC designation.

Criterion (B) addresses scale, form, massing and density

CPC points to the surrounding context when it comes to scale. form, massing and density
Regarding the buildings height and scale being appropriate for the current site, it is very
plausible to say that the proposed building?s five (5) story height ?ts the existing and historic
context of the Brush Park neighborhood as there are surrounding buildings that reach heights of
seven (7) to eight (8) stories.

This project is seemingly consistent with the scale, form massing and density of the historic
precedents of the neighborhood, particularly for buildings between John R. and Woodward. At
the time of the Brush Park Historic District designation of the 22 block area in 1980 by the
Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB), buildings varied greatly in size. According to the
HDAB staff report for the district, ?Houses are generally oriented to the east-west streets, while
apartments and commercial structures are more often oriented to the north-south streets. Most
lots were around 50 feet wide and the neighborhood historically maintained all types of buildings
from Victorian style mansions to institutional churches, to apartment buildings and hotels.

The historic district ordinance speaking of the period of designation, states that, 2 ?Height varies
in the district from one (1) to eleven (11) stories. In the area between Woodward and 
All other buildings more than four (4) stories in height are located between Woodward and
John R, and generally on or immediately adjacent to buildings on those streets the ordinance
states.

?Older single family houses between Woodward and Brush generally occupy about twenty-?ve
(25) to thirty (30) percent of the building lot, not including coach houses or garages. Later
apartments and commercial buildings often ?ll a much higher percentage of the lot,
sometimes approaching or reaching complete lot coverage. Some of the taller buildings in
Brush Park were directly adjacent to the smaller two three (3) story buildings. Brush Park
had many building typologies. St. Patrick?s Church that once existed on John R. and Adelaide,
was a church that maintained two very large steeples and is a good example of the vastly
different mix of scale and land use that existed in the area.

Criterion Compatibility- asks whether the proposed development is compatible with
surrounding development in terms of land use, general appearance and function, and should not
adversely a?ect the value of properties in the immediate vicinity.

CPC believes that the development is compatible with the surrounding area and that the
developer has worked closely with the community and City to come to a product that takes into
consideration all concerns that can reasonably be accommodated and make the project still
remain feasible.

CONCLUSION

CPC has worked inter-departmentally, with the developer and with the community to reach the
conclusion for the project that is currently before Your Body. We view the 112 Edmund building
as being cohesive to the neighborhood. The developer has been very cooperative and conducive
to changes over the time of this project and has incorporated numerous design changes based on
city and community feedback.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

f. 
5 (am cf?fycilaa?f 
Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner

Attachment:
Ordinance
Plans

Cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 
Karen Gage, 
Esther Yang, 
Greg Moots,P&DD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel
Arthur Jemison, Chief of Services and Infrastructure

SUMMARY

This ordinance amends Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map 4 and the
provisions for an existing PD (Planned Development-Historic) zoning classi?cation established

by Ordinance 39-07 to allow for a mixed~use building on land commonly known as 112 Edmund

Place.

COUNCIL MEMBER 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, District Map 4 and the
provisions for an existing PD (Planned Development-Historic) zoning classi?cation established
by Ordinance No. 39-07 to allow for a mixed-use building on land commonly known as 112

Edmund Place.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Article Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit Citv Code. Zoning. amends
District Map 4 and Ordinance No. 39-07 as follows:

(A) District Map 4 is amended to modifv the approved plans for the PD (Planned

Development District} zoning classi?cation currentlv shown on:

SOUTH EDMUND PLACE Lot 14 and the East 10 feet of Lot 13. Block 5. Brush
Subdivision. as recorder in Liber I. Page 191 of Plats. Wavne Countv Records
IMO 71.54 irregular.

(B) The site plan. elevations and other components of the development proposal tor the
12 Edmund Place proiect as depicted in the drawings prepa_red Poris

Associates and Oombra Architects. LLC dated Ma 30. 2019- are a roved with
the followinegonditions:

l. The developer will work with the immediately surrounding property

owners to minimize disruption to the neighborhood during construction
and address impacts that mav arise; and

F.)

Section 2.
repealed.

Section 3.

The developer will work to mitigate any possible unforeseen concerns and

work with the Citv Planning Commission staff to further re?ne any aspect
of the nroieet design if necessarv: and

 

The developer will work with the neighbor immediatelLadiacent to the

west to add a possible brick masonry wall andfor vegetative buffer as
appropriate between subicct lots, to the satisfaction ol?lhe City Planning
The developer will address setback concerns of the adiacent nronerw
known as the Lucien Moore. to mitiaate outstandina issues to the City
Planning Commission staff?s satisfaction: and

Final site plans. elevations. liahtina. landscape and signage plans will be
submitted bv the deveioner to the staffof the Citv PlanningCommission
for review and approval prior to making application for applicable
pprmits.

All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are

This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public

peace, health, safety and welfare of the peeple of the City of Detroit.

Section 4.

This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth day after

publication in accordance with Section 401(6) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended,

M.C.L. and Section 4-118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:

?aw/43%

Lawrence T. Garcia,
Corporation Counsel

112 EDMUND PLACE

MAY 33. 

SUMMARY OF MODIFICATIONS TO 112 EDMUND 

HEIGHT:
REDUCED BUILDING HEIGHT FROM SEVEN TO FIVE STORIES [82' TO 68')

MASSING:
REDUCED OVERALL BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGE FROM 82KSF TO SOKSF

GORB CUTS:
REMOVED STREET CURB CUT FROM EDMUND PLACE - ONLY ACCESSED FROM ALLEY

PARKING:
REDUCED PARKING COUNT FROM 48 SPACE TO 31 SPACES - NO UNDERGROUND PARKING

PROGRAM:

REDUCED RETAIL PROGRAM FROM 5KSF TD I.2KSF PARKING FOR RETAIL)
REMOVED COMMERCIAL OFFICE PROGRAM AMOUNT OF PARKING 
INCREASED UNIT COUNT FROM 32 TO 36

 PREVIEWS 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT DESIGN

SITE 

 

ON JOHN sr BETWEEN ALFRED ST AND EDMUND 5:;341 .
anusumu
9 



J. unmmwu
cumuwu
.

 

 

SITE PLAN

HUDSON I EVANS
I HOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 








LUCIEN MOORE
ESTATE


JOHN 
APARTMENTS . i 
ARLTON LOFTS
9 STORIES I . a STORIES
. UNDFR CONSTRUCTION . . I 
5 STORIES RANSOMGILLIS 3.3T 3ST 387- 43? 5ST . 
. 
asr SST 4ST HOWE HEIGHT AND CONTEXT

92 FT

  
 

 

  

1w} 2

CARLTON 

    

 

EDMUND
PLACE

 
 

 

 

ALLEY

#LUCIEN MOORE ESTATE

 

 

GROUND FLOOR PLAN

 

 

 

 

 

JUHN STREET

EDMUND PM GE

 

 

ALLEY

I

1 RE um IL 
I TSMEP
I I CONDENSER I
uunvnnu STAIRAGGESS 
MECHANICAL 
umrww .

. UPPER Hoar 
1 1

near PLAN
1 

EDMUND PM (if

 

=44.


JUHN STREET 

162112l_0"

 

 

 

D. 
wing
El] DD

Tl 

  

 

 

 

East Elevation

L11

   
 



 



68! 0"

     
 

ELEVATIONS

   

i-

In 


 

 

 

MATERIALS

METAL MESH GUARD ERICK WINDOWS
Dark Bron" Ugh! Gray al nv-mma audacconu Dark Bron" ?burglua 9 residential unlu

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   



. 
BRICK SCREEN BRICK STOREFRONT
Whllo running bond with (axon or norm-n running band {sum or woman sly?) In main mm mm fascia band bronze 9 ground 



AREHITEETS

BRICK

bond (nun or norman in main ?dd

MATERIALS

WINDOWS METAL MESH GUARD
Dark anzl ?buglau roudominl an": Dark Bronz-

I




  

 

  
    

Wm E?m?m

24?.

         

 

-,
I, 'r-Irhh? 'fiw?L" wry-1" 

   

 

 

 

LIGHT BRICK (PATTERSON TERRACE)

   

 

 

omh bird-Fm

 
       

 
  
       

mama:

3m?; in]


?im- I

REGULAR MNDOW PATTERN RLTON PATTERNED ("27 CAMM GE HOUSE) DARK BRONZE WINDOWS (VARIOUS)

   

hm-

2'71:
4.1: 119.:

will Lubzi

I511

29;;

L31.



I 


emu


al in."
.
. 
545:! 

i 
.


. 

1'1" 

. 
ms an 

EliaFIE
Imam

 

 

 

EAST ELEVATION ALONG JOHN 

 

 

0F EDMUND AND JOHN 

68

(14

Alton James @it? at Etta it Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson . Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 3235033343?er LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlo?wski 
Marcel! R- Todd r- Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
?emf Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Wabb

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

June 21, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of the Detroit?Wayne Joint Building Authority for PC (Public Center) Special District
Review of proposed exterior alterations to 2 Woodward Avenue Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

REQUEST

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has received a request from the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building
Authority for PC (Public Center) Special District Review of proposed exterior alterations to 2
Woodward Avenue Coleman A. Young Municipal Center (CAYMC). This request is being made
consistent with the provisions of Section 61?3-182 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

BACKGROUND PROPOSAL
The Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority (DWJBA) is continually making improvements to the
CAYMC. The current project under consideration has three components:

1. Fencing around the parking lot and gates across curb cuts 6? high black ornamental steel
fence similar to the fencing across Jefferson Avenue at Mariners? Church

2. Additional bike racks and benches matching those that have been previously approved at
the Jefferson (south) and Woodward (west) entrances

3. Removing brick pavers and replacing with plain concrete in additional locations to
eliminate tripping hazards and maintenance issues

The next minor project being planned is the installation of new cameras around the building. The
Building Authority is also in the early stages of planning to activate the lawn area between the Spirit
of Detroit and Jefferson Avenue, adjacent to the ?agpole. The intent is to create a plaza space to
complement Spirit Plaza and to minimize the grass which is dif?cult to keep healthy due to its location
on the roof of the basement level. They are engaging local architectural students in a design competition
and will involve a broad audience in the review and selection process.

REVIEW ANALYSIS
Some concern was raised regarding the removal of the pattern in the pavement around the Spirit of
Detroit. After much consideration, the Building Authority prefers plain concrete in a grid pattern due
to three major factors:
I The existing concrete ribbons are only two years old and already cracking. Due to the
small size of the pieces and the freeze/thaw cycle, the longevity of the concrete would be
greatly reduced.

0 The cost of replacing the concrete in the ribbon pattern is well over the budget for the
project.
I This plan restores the original design of the concrete in that location (see attached photos)

PC District Review Criteria
There are eighteen PC District Review Criteria listed in Section 61-11-77 of the Zoning Ordinance. A
few of the most applicable are:

(3) The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in terms
of land use, general appearance and function and should not adversely a?ect the value of
adjacent properties.

The proposed changes are minor and will not adversely affect adjacent properties.

(12) Security considerations should be a major element of the design program.
Securing and controlling access to the parking lot where public of?cials park has been a long-
standing priority which this project addresses.

(13) Barrier-free access and public safety features should be carefully planned.
Ramps are provided where necessary and the plan calls for removal of the brick pavers which
will eliminate tripping hazards and improve safety.

(18) Phasing, staging and interim circulation patterns should be well-planned so as to
minimize disruption during the construction period.

Extensive planning has been done to phase the concrete work so that each section can be
completed in one day to reduce the impact on pedestrian circulation.

Design
The Flaming Development Department has reviewed the proposed changes and recommends
approval.

RECOMMENDATION
CPC staff recommends approval of the proposed exterior modi?cations to 2 Woodward Avenue as
detailed in the attached drawings with the following conditions:

1. That the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority continue to work with city agencies as may
be appropriate to further re?ne the design and to ensure minimal disruption to the business
conducted at the Municipal Center, and

2. That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscape, lighting, and signage plans be submitted for City
Planning Commission staff approval prior to making application for applicable permits.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON



I 
1 1i)

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachment: Drawings showing proposed changes

2

CC:

Historic Photos

Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel
Mike Kennedy, Hines

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING ALTERATIONS IN A PC ZONING DISTRICT
AT THE COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center (CAYMC) is located within an
established PC (Public Center) zoning district; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority, which owns and operates the
CAYMC, has initiated various improvements and repairs to the Center over the years of its
existence; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority has undertaken ongoing subsurface
waterproo?ng repairs, examined and implemented various means of improving security around
the Center; and

WHEREAS, work to be performed within a PC zoning district requires Special District Review and
the purpose of the PC zoning district classi?cation is provided for in Section 61?11-61 of the Zoning
Ordinance as follows:

This? :lirtrin? inc/cider arear med or to he need for governmental recreational, and of
particular or Jpecial civic importance. All or other improvement within this (Intent reanireo that
the Planning and Development Department and the City Planning ommirrion review and make
recommendation to City Council, arprooicledjor in ARTICLE DIVISION 6 of?thiy Chapter 50 at
to eni?are a completeb/ harmonious, pleating. center; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority has requested Special District Review
and approval for installation of fencing and gates around the parking lot, removal of brick pavers
and installation of plain concrete, and additional benches and bicycle parking; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has received the CPC staff recommendation and concurrent support of
the Flaming and Development Department in the CPC report dated June 21, 2019;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Detroit City Council hereby authorizes repairs
and improvements to the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center to be undertaken by the Detroit-
Wayne Joint Building Authority as described in the previously discussed report with the following
conditions;

1. That Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority work with City agencies as may be
appropriate to further re?ne the design and to ensure minimal disruption to the business
conducted at the Municipal Center during construction, and

2. That ?nal site plans, elevations, lighting, signage and landscape plans be reviewed by
CPC staff for consistency with approval prior to application be made for applicable
permits.

 Parking Lot Security Enhancement

 

- - - ?i 

 

 

 

 

 

. 
Entrance

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manual Gate, 6?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jefferson Exit

 

 

 

Security Fence, 6?

 

 

Enhancements include 6? fence along south and west border and a manual swing gate to

replace existing chain. Entrance and exit gate arms will remain in place. Security cameras
will be added to corners of lot.

A REVISION 1 - 5.21.BRICK TO BE REMOVED AND REPLACED WITH CONCRETE

CONCRETE TO BE REMOVED AND REPLACED
REMOVAL AT NEAREST EXPANSION JOINTS

WITH NEW CONCRETE

   

 


.- 1 1.
it?! .- I I i ?j



 

 





 

 

 

 

Backless benches at Woodward Entrance

Page 10 CAYMC Site Work 020319

 

ORNAMENTAI STEEL FENCE

Montage Plus ornamental steel tence has the versatility to fit many
differentproject applications. With its ability to traverse varying grades, 1; 
variety ot distinct product styles and unmatched coating performance, 3
Morita ge Plu is the preferred choice for ornamental fence. i

 

Br?'ommercial Developments
MS If Storage

>Apartments (Ma/ti Family)
MP Recreation
>Schools Universities

   

FENCE PRODUCTS
833-333?3422

ASSAABLOY, the global leader in door opening solutioirs

 

 

 

 

 
  

7O

)1 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone: 313 -628?2535
office, 2 Woodward Avenue, suite 1100 Fax: 313 -224-2135
Detroit, Michigan 48226 

-
DETROIT

 

Jun621,2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Avenue

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Transfer of Jurisdiction/ Surplus of Real Property
15003 E. Jefferson Ave, Grosse Pointe Park, MI

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Detroit Department of Transportation has recently requested that
the Finance Department transfer jurisdiction of certain City-owned real property known as 15003
E. Jefferson Ave, Grosse Pointe Park, MI (the ?Property?) to the Planning and Development
Department to administer as surplus real property.

The Property is approximately 0.44 acres of vacant land. The Property is surplus and DDOT no

longer has need for it. intends to assume jurisdictional control over the Property for sale

to the Urban Renewal Initiative Foundation for use as a non-pro?t ART center with theater/museum space.
Pursuant to Sec. 14-8-3 of the Detroit City Code, it is hereby requested by the Finance
Department that Detroit City Council approve the transfer of jurisdiction over the Property to

Additionally, pursuant to Sec. Sec. 14-8-4, it is hereby requested by that the
Property be deemed surplus and available for sale.

Respect?illy submitted,

OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFF PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPARTMENT

I .
Joh iW Maurige D. Cox 
Chi 0 Finance Director Director

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

 

 

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit Department of Transportation has jurisdiction over certain
City of Detroit real property located at 15003 E. Jefferson Ave., Grosse Pointe Park, M1 (the
?Property?) as further described in the attached Exhibit and

WHEREAS, DDOT has requested that the Finance Department transfer jurisdiction of the
Property to the Flaming Development Department to administer as surplus real property; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Development Department deems the Property not essential to the
City and therefore requests that the Property be deemed surplus and be offered for sale; now
therefore be it

RESOLVED, that in accordance with 14?8-3 of the Detroit City Code, Detroit City Council
hereby approves the transfer of jurisdiction of the Property from DDOT to the Planning 
Development Department; and be it further

RESOLVED, that in accordance with 14-8-4 of the Detroit City Code, Detroit City Council
hereby deems the Property surplus real property that may be offered for sale by the Planning 
Development Department.

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Grosse Pointe Park, Wayne County, Michigan, described as
follows:

PKWW203B 204 LOT 203 EXC SLY 110 FT. OF WLY 60.64 FT THEREOF ALSO LOT 204
TURNBULL AND JEFFERSON AVENUE SUB, PC 570 L26 P98 WCR

a/k/a 15003 E. JEFFERSON AVE.
Tax Parcel ID 008-07-0203-002

Description Correct

By: 9

Knoll
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SLIITL 308
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48221:

   

(313) 224-1339 - TTY271 1
CITY OF DETROIT (313)224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

June 21, 2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Ave

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale Memorandum of Understanding
15003 E. Jefferson Ave, Grosse Pointe Park, MI

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit through its Planning Development Department the
Urban Renewal Initiative Foundation and the City of Grosse Pointe Park have
been in discussions regarding the sale of certain City-owned land located at 15003 E. Jefferson
Ave, Grosse Pointe Park (the ?Property?) to URIF for the purchase price of Three Hundred
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 

In conjunction with the sale of the Property to URIF, GPP has agreed to: (1) modify their traf?c
island located in Jefferson Avenue immediately west of the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and
Lakepointe Street in a manner that would permit the City?s Detroit Department of Transportation
buses to turnaround and head west on Jefferson Avenue and (2) construct a parking
area for DDOT buses on westbound Jefferson Avenue on land that GPP owns between Maryland
Street and Lakepointe Street. The commitments of GPP are codi?ed in a Memorandum of
Understanding that is included in the attached resolution.

URIF proposes to utilize the Property to construct and operate a non-pro?t ART center that
includes theater and museum space and that is used in conjunction with adjoining land that it owns.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to: authorize the Director
of or his designee, to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be
necessary or convenient to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to URIF and (2) approve
the MOU.

Respectfully submitted, \1


Maurice D. Cox
Director


Ll I

 

cc: Stephanie Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit through its Planning Development Department 
has received an offer from the Urban Renewal Initiative Foundation to purchase certain City-
owned real property at 15003 E. Jefferson Ave., Grosse Pointe Park, M1 (the ?Property?), as more
particularly described in Exhibit A incorporated herein, for the purchase price of Three Hundred Thousand
and 00/ 00 Dollars (the ?Purchase Price?); and

WHEREAS, to entice the City to sell the Property to URIF, URIF and the City of Grosse Pointe Park
wish to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the City (the wherein GPP has
committed and agreed to: (I) modify their traf?c island located in Jefferson Avenue immediately west of
the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and Lakepointe Street in a manner that would permit the City?s Detroit
Department of Transportation buses to turnaround and head west on Jefferson Avenue and (2)
construct a parking area for DDOT buses on westbound Jefferson Avenue on land that GPP owns between
Maryland Street and Lakepointe Street; and

WHEREAS, the MOU is substantially in the form attached hereto in Exhibit and made a part hereof,
with the two (2) GPP commitments given in the preceding paragraph above to be known herein as the 
Commitments?; now therefore be it

RESOLVED, Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale the Property to the URIF, its successors or
assignees, for the Purchase Price; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim
deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Property to
the URIF consistent with this resolution and the forgoing communication; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any required
instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim deed (including
but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession) in
the event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen
circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the
changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby authorizes the Director of to modify, revise and/or
amend the ?nal form of the MOU at the discretion of the Director of provided that the ?nal,
executed MOU include the GPP Commitments and provided that the Purchase Price not be less than Three
Hundred Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the MOU and the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the

Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibits A and B)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property situated in the City of Grosse Pointe Park, Wayne County, Michigan, described as
follows:

PKWW203B 204 LOT 203 EXC SLY 110 FT. OF WLY 60.64 FT THEREOF ALSO LOT 204
TURNBULL AND JEFFERSON AVENUE SUB, PC 570 L26 P98 WCR

a/k/a 15003 E. JEFFERSON AVE.
Tax Parcel ID 008-07-0203-002

Description Correct

By: a 
56; Knoll
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

Exhibit A

Legal Description

18

Dctroit_lS783808_2

 

-

In?. 

EXHIBIT 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

[see attached]

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
AMONG
THE CITY OF DETROIT,
URBAN RENEWAL INITIATIVE FOUNDATION
AND
THE CITY OF GROSSE POINTE PARK

This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into by the City of Detroit, a Michigan
municipal corporation Urban Renewal Initiative Foundation or its successor or assignee
(?Foundation?), a Michigan non?pro?t corporation, and the City of Grosse Pointe Park 
a Michigan municipal corporation, in order to cooperate and to coordinate their respective
activities in furtherance of the construction of a non-pro?t community center for the arts, (The A.
Paul and Carol C. Schaap Center for the Performing Arts and the Richard and Jane Manoogian Art
Gallery), a bus turnaround, and parking area for DDOT busses. The City, Foundation and GPP
each may be referred to herein as a ?Party? or collectively as the ?Parties,? as applicable.

RECITALS:

A. The City owns but no longer uses as a bus turnaround or for any other purpose the real
property located on Jefferson Avenue between Wayburn Street and Maryland Street in the City of
Grosse Pointe Park and more particularly described on the attached Exhibit A (the ?City
Property?);

B. The Foundation is desirous of purchasing the City Property for the construction of a non-
pro?t community center for the arts that will be operated by the Foundation or another non-pro?t
entity.

C. GPP owns and currently maintains as green space the real property located on Jefferson
Avenue between Maryland Street and Lakepointe Street in the City of Grosse Pointe Park and
more particularly described on the attached Exhibit (the Property?);

D. GPP owns and maintains the traf?c island located in Jefferson Avenue immediately west
of the intersection ofJefferson Avenue and Lakepointe Street (the ?Traffic Island?).

E. GPP has offered (among other things, as set forth below) to modify the GPP Property and
the Traf?c Island as necessary for use by the City?s Department of Transportation in
perpetuity for a bus turnaround and parking area for DDOT busses.

F. GPP and the City believe that the construction and Operation of a nonpro?t community
center for the arts, bus turnaround. and parking area is in the best interest of the public and are
desirous of seeking necessary approvals and consummation of the same.

Accordingly, the City, Foundation and GPP mutually acknowledge the following understanding:

Section 1 ?-"Purpose: The purpose of this?MOU is to'set'fo'rth the required activities or the Parties 

hereto in ?irtherance of the construction of the non?pro?t community center for the arts, bus
turnaround, and parking area.

Dctroit_15783808l 2

 

- 



Section 2 Activities of the City. In furtherance of the construction of the non-pro?t community
center for the arts, bus turnaround and parking area, the City agrees to perform the following
independent activities: the City will at its earliest opportunity request authorization from the
Detroit City Council to sell the City Property to the Foundation for the Purchase Price of Three
Hundred Thousand Dollars The City shall convey title to the City Property to
the Foundation by quit claim deed. The City will deliver the quit claim deed to the Foundation
only after the following conditions have been met:

A. Detroit City Council has authorized, by resolution, the sale and conveyance of the City
Property to the Foundation; and

B. GPP has performed its obligations under Section 4, Paragraphs A, B, C, and D, of this
MOU.

C. GPP and the City have executed as the binding obligation of each a Memorandum of
Understanding reopening Kercheval to two way traf?c.

Title will be conveyed, in a Closing described in Section 5 of this MOU, by the City as soon as
practicable but in no event more than 30 days after the aforementioned conditions have been met.

Section 3 Activities of the Foundation. In furtherance of the construction of the non-pro?t
community center for the arts, bus turnaround and parking area, the Foundation agrees to perform
the following independent activities:

A. The Foundation will position and construct the structure/building that will be the
community center for the arts in substantial compliance with the Site Plan attached as
Exhibit C. The Foundation agrees that if the community center for the arts is not
constructed that the Foundation will not construct, build or erect any other building or
structure on the City Property Lmless it has received written approval, which shall not be
unreasonably Withheld, from the Mayor of the City of Detroit or his/her designce. The
Foundation further agrees it will not convey its interest in the City Property to another
person or entity without the written approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld,
of the Mayor of the City of Detroit or his/her designee, except that the Foundation may
convey its interest to a separate tax exempt non-pro?t entity provided such non-pro?t entity
agrees to the conditions stated in this MOU regarding use of the City Property provided
the Foundation gives the City notice of the assignment and a signed Assignment and
Assumption of MOU or such other document as may be reasonably requested by the City
between the Foundation and the non?pro?t assignee after which the City shall release the
foundation of its obligations under this MOU.

B. Provide evidence to the City of the necessary corporate authority to enter into this MOU.
C. Operate the non?pro?t community center for the arts in such a manner that any

leading/unloading or backing up of vehicles in any loading dock-that is adjacent to
properties located within the boundaries of the City of Detroit occur only within the hours

Detroit [5783 808_2

 

 

of 8 am. and 5 pm. Further, vehicle engines shall not idle for more than 5 minutes in said
loading dock area.

Section 4 Activities of GPP. In furtherance of the construction of the non-pro?t community
center for the arts, bus turnaround, and parking area, GPP agrees to perform the following
independent activities at its own cost: 

A.

Provide evidence to the Foundation and the City of the necessary authority to enter into
this MOU.

Request and receive authorization from all necessary GPP legislative and executive
members to construct the bus turnaround and parking area on the GPP Property for use, in
perpetuity, only as a bus turnaround and parking area for DDOT busses. Said use shall run
with the land and GPP agrees that the City may seek any and all remedies available to it in
a breach of contract action including but not limited to speci?c performance if GPP
infringes or interferes in any way on this use.

Provide reasonably satisfactory evidence of ability to perform its obligations under
this MOU with respect to the GPP Property.

At cost, provide a cash or surety (with such surety as is reasonably satisfactory to
the City) bond in the amount of Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($50,000) to secure
performance of its obligations under Section 4, Paragraphs and F, of this MOU.
In the event

1. GPP submits a surety bond, and GPP does not perform its obligations under Section
4, Paragraphs and F, of this MOU, the proceeds of such bond shall be paid to the
City of Detroit for use to complete the bonded obligations, GPP will issue a right
of entry to the City or is contractor to complete the construction and will provide
the City with an easement to erect signs on the GPP Property that noti?es the public
that the area is for DDOT bus parking only, with any balance paid to GPP, or

2. GPP submits a cash bond, such bond shall be held by such title company as is
reasonably satisfactory to the City; GPP may draw against it to complete its
obligations under Section 4, Paragraphs and F, of this MOU in accordance with
the reasonable requirements of such title company; and if GPP does not perform its
obligations under Section 4, Paragraphs and F, of this MOU, the proceeds of such
bond shall be used to complete the bonded obligations, with any balance paid to
GPP.

Prepare the GPP Property depicted on Exhibit for use by DDOT as a bus staging and
turnaround area within one year of the date of Detroit City Council authorization described
in Section 2 of this MOU. This preparation will include, but is not limited to, removal of

existing curbs, sidewalks and green. Space along Jefferson Avenue, proper signage .

indicating the area is for DDOT parking only, site preparation for paving, and paving of
the area with curbs and drainage. All such work will be completed to the reasonable

Dctroit_15783808 2

 



satisfaction of the City and in accordance with applicable State of Michigan Department
of Transportation standards and speci?cations for road construction.

Construct the improvements to the Traf?c Island depicted on Exhibit 0(4) to permit DDOT
buses of no more than sixty (60) feet long to turn from eastbound Jefferson Avenue into
the bus staging area and/or to complete a U-turn from eastbound to westbound Jefferson
Avenue within one year of the date of Detroit City Comicil authorization described in
Section 2 of this MOU. All work will be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the
City and in accordance with applicable State of Michigan Department of Transportation
standards and speci?cations for road construction.

Maintain (in a clean and orderly fashion together with providing reasonable supplies of
soap, towels and toilet paper) a restroom facility or facilities located within the City of
Grosse Pointe Park municipal facilities at 151 15 East Jefferson Avenue, for use by DDOT
drivers, on a continuous and uninterrupted basis as long as the City operates a bus line/route
along Jefferson Avenue. GPP agrees that said use shall run with the land as long as the
City operates a bus line/route along Jefferson Ave and that the City may seek any and all
remedies available to it in a breach of contract action, including but not limited to speci?c
performance, if GPP infringes in any way on this use.

Section 5 Closing Between the City and the Foundation.

A. The Foundation shall, at its expense, order a commitment for title insurance from First

American Title Insurance Company (the ?Title Company?) for the City Property and title
to the City Property must be reasonably satisfactory to the Foundation. In the event title to
the City Property cannot be conveyed in the condition required by this MOU, the
Foundation may terminate this MOU and the parties shall have no further obligation under
this MOU.

The conveyance of the City Property to the Foundation vizill occur at a Closing. The
Closing shall take place at the of?ces of the Title Company at a time mutually agreeable
to the City and the Foundation.

At the Closing, the Foundation shall:

1. pay the Purchase Price to the Title Company for disbursement in conformity with a
closing statement agreed to by the parties,

2. pay the closing costs charged by the Title Company and the premium on a policy of title
insurance insuring the Foundation?s interest in the City Property, and

3. execute such other documents and take such other actions as are customary and
reasonable to close the transaction.

D. At the Closing, the City shall:

1. deliver a quit claim deed in a form substantially similar to that attached as Exhibit 
conveying the City?s interest in the City Property to the Foundation; and

4
Detroit_l 5783 808__2

 

-.

2. the City shall execute such documents and take such actions consistently with the
policies of the City to cause the Title Company to issue a policy of title insurance in
conformity with this MOU.

Section 6 Meetings. The City and GPP will meet at their mutual convenience, whether in person
or by video conference, telephone, or other convenient means, on a periodic basis to review the
progress of each Party?s activities under this MOU, to coordinate further activities as may be
necessary, and to discuss any other relevant issues as may arise from time to time.

Section 7 - Effective Date and Termination. This MOU will be effective as of the date upon
which it has been signed by an authorized representative of each of the Parties (the ?Effective
Date?). This MOU shall terminate upon the conveyance of the City Property to the Foundation
except for those obligations and responsibilities found in Sections 3 4 which shall survive
termination of this agreement. Any Party to this MOU has the right to terminate this MOU if, by
December 31, 2019, any Party to this MOU has not received all necessary authority to enter into
this MOU. Termination for failure to receive necessary authority shall be effective seven (7)
calendar days after receipt of notice provided in accordance with Section 8 of this MOU.

Section 8 Notices. Notices, requests, notifications, and other communications (collectively,
?Notices?) related to this MOU by either Party will be given in writing, signed by an authorized
representative of the Party, and hand-delivered, mailed by ?rst-class mail or by overnight courier,
or emailed with receipt con?rmation enabled, and addressed as follows:

If to City: City of Detroit

Mayor?s Of?ce

2 Woodward Ave, Ste 1126
Detroit, MI 48226

Attention: F. Thomas Lewand

Email: lewandt@detroitmi.gov

If to Foundation: Urban Renewal Initiative Foundation
President
Attention: A. Paul Schaap
15115 East Jefferson Avenue
Grosse Pointe Park, MI 48230

and

Stephen J. Poke 

ildew Hinks, PLLC

26622 Woodward Avenu
- - - Suite 2-25- - -

Royal Oak, MI 48067

Delroit_15783803_2

 



.?hq?yI?r. . . .



If to GPP: City of Grosse Pointe Park

City Manager

Attention: Dale Krajniak

151 15 East Jefferson Avenue
Grosse Pointe Park, MI 48230

Email: 
-and..

City of Grosse Pointe Park
City Attorney

Attention: Dennis J. Leyasseur
6th Floor at Ford Field

1901 Saint Antoine Street
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Email: dlevasseurfg??budmanlawnom

Section 9 - Miscellaneous.

A.

Relationship of the Parties. Each Party acknowledges that the Parties are independent of
each other and do not intend, as a result of this MOU or otherwise, to become a joint
venture, partners, employees, servants, agents, representatives, contractors, or any type of
related business entities to one another with respect to the subject matter of this MOU.
Each Party acknowledges that it is individually responsible for maintaining compliance in
all respects with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations, and orders
to which it is subject.

Assignment. Except as otherwise provided in this MOU, this MOU sets forth each Party?s
intended activities in furtherance of the Land Swap, and no Party intends to delegate or
assign this MOU, or any portion of or responsibility under this MOU, without the prior
written notice to and consent of the other Parties.

Merger. This MOU sets forth the entire understanding between the Parties as to their
activities in furtherance of the construction of the non-pro?t community center for the arts,
bus turnaround and parking area, and all prior discussions, negotiations, communications,
and understandings, whether written or verbal, are merged into this MOU.

Amendments. No amendment to this MOU will be effective unless it is in writing,
expressly makes reference to this MOU, and is executed by a duly authorized
representative of each Party.

Counterparts. This MOU may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be

deemed'to be'an angraamut 2111 or ranch tbgemeis'tia? Constitute but one document: Each-

counterpart may be executed by facsimile or electronic signature, which will be deemed to
be an original signature, to the extent permitted by applicable law.

6
Detroit_l S783 808_2

 



.

- 

F. Authority of the City. Notwithstanding anything in this MOU, in law, in equity, or
otherwise to the contrary, this MOU shall be of no force or effect and may not in any way
be enforced against the Parties unless and until the MOU between the City and GPP
pertaining to the reopening and redevelopment of Kercheval Avenue has been signed by
all necessary parties thereto, this MOU has been fully executed by a duly authorized agent
of the Foundation, GPP and the City and approved by the City of Detroit Law Department,
and the transactions contemplated hereby have been approved pursuant to a Resolution of
the Detroit City Council as approved by the Mayor of the City of Detroit. Any amendments
or modi?cations of this MOU shall likewise be fully executed by a duly authorized agent
of the Foundation, GPP and the City, approved by the City of Detroit Law Department,
and approved pursuant to a Resolution of the Detroit City Council as approved by the
Mayor of the City of Detroit that incorporates such amendments or modi?cations.

[Signatures appear on next page]

Dctroit_15783808__2

 

.-

. ..-



[Signature page to Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Detroit, the Urban

Renewal Initiative Foundation and the City of Grosse Pointe Park]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this MOU as of the dates shown below, to

be effective as of the Effective Date.

a Michigan public body corporate

 

 

 

CITY OF DETROIT,
By:
Print: .
Its: 
STATE or MICHIGAN 
COUNTY OF WAYNE iss-

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on

2013 by

 

 

the 
a Michigan public body corporate, on behalf ofthe City.

 

 

Print:
Notary Public, Wayne County, Michigan
My commission expires:
Acting in the County of

 

Pursuant to 18-5?3: of the Detroit City Code, 1 Approved by City Council on

hereby certify that proper and fair consideration

of the City of Detroit,

 

has been received by the City pursuant to this
instrument.

Approved by the Mayor on

 

 

Finance Director

 

 

 

 

 

 

Approved by Corporation Counsel pursuant to
?7.5-206 of the 2012 Charter of the City of
Detroit.

 

 

Corporation Counsel

 

 

 

Detroit__15783808_2

. - 

URBAN RENEWAL INITIATIVE FOUNDATION,
a Michigan non~profit corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By:
Print: 
Its: 
3'
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
)ss.
COUNTY OF 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on 2018 by
the of the Urban Renewal Initiative
Foundation, a Michigan non-profit corporation, on behalf of the corporation.
Print:
Netary Public, County, Michigan
My commission expires:
Acting in the County of
CITY OF GROSSE POINTE PARK,
a Michigan municipal corporation
By: 
Print:
Its: 1
STATE OF MICHIGAN 
)ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on . . 2018 by
the of the City of Grosse

 

Pointe lsark, a Michigan public body corporate, on behalf of the City.

 

 

Print:

Notary Public, Wayne County, Michigan
My commission expires:

Acting in the County of

Momma-Mum arUndenlundlun blwu Urbain Renewal REVISED 05-05-11?!

Detr?oit_15783808_2



 

mm?a?l??wh- 

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR CITY PROPERTY
(To be provided by City)

10

Detroilh15783808_2



 

EXHIBIT A

Land described as Parcel Identification No. 00.8-07-0203-002
Commonly known as: 15003 Jefferson Ave, Grosse Pointe Park

204 LOT 203 EXC SLY 110 FT. 0F WLY 60.64 FTTHEREOF ALSO LOT 204
TURNBULL AND JEFFERSON AVENUE SUB, PC 570 L26 P98 WCR

DELEOH I PTION 

m- 
mnw?d'?yg?'f?mu nan-



 

EXHIBIT 

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR CITY OF GROSSE POINTE PARK PROPERTY
(To be nruvided by Point; Park)

1 1
Detroit_15733sos_2

 

 

..

EXHIBIT 
FOR CITY OF GROSSE POINTE PARK PROPERTY

ADDRESS:
15175 EAST JEFFERSON

GROSSE POINTE PARK, MI 48230
DATE PRINTED: 01/25/2019

2018 LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
- THE SLY PTS OF LOTS A TO COMBINED DESC AS BEG 25D 47M 578

186.00 FT FROM THE NE COR 0F LOT 1; TH 25D 47M 578 198.57 FT - TH 
600 IBM 423 169.95 FT TH 25D 52M 135 210.66 FT - TH 640 23M 295 
169.82 FT POE - - BERNS JEFFERSON AVE SUB 0.80

 





EXHIBIT (14)
(1)

Overall Site Plan to be pmvided hv the Fuundation

12

Detroit_15783808_2

 

. ?nu-a I- ..-.

. 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_?n.?rrur  (2)

Revised View of building from City at Jeffel'sonmlter intersection to be pmvicled by the
Blundm

13
Detroit 157838083

 



?nun?h .



9'
(-1:

50





1 F?m

 

Haw-Ewe?

 

 (3)

Revised View of building alone; Jefferson Avenue to he provided by [he medatien

14
Detroil_15783808_2

 



 (4)

DDOT bus: turn around to be provided by GPP

15

Detroit_15783808__2



- 

.. .. 

 .

$?gaali~

:l




Haywooissna_'
GNU 


5? mm



r22?mung?. 

-l1"ll'-
-.- 



"If .. ..-- - nunu?n?unnpd-?le?u-h?I?u-Mc 7?

I . .2 
I whirl

UIT CLAIM DEED

Subject to the following paragraph, the City of Detroit, a Michigan public body Corporate,
whose address is 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 802, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (?Grantor?), quit
claims to a Michigan 
(?Grantee?), Whose address is . the premises located in
the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as:

 

In attached Exhibit 

(the ?Property?), for the sum of Three Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 
subject to and reserving to the City of Detroit its rights under public easements and rights of way,
easements ofrecord, applicable zoning ordinances, development plans pursuant to Act 344 of 1945
as amended (if any), and restrictions of record.

The following language is included pursuant to MCL Sections 560.1096) and 
added by 1996 PA 591, and applies only if the Property is not platted: ?The Grantor grants to the
Grantee the right to make all divisions under Section 108 of the land division act, Act No. 288 of
the Public Acts of 1967, as amended. This property may be located within the vicinity of farmland
or a farm operation. Generally accepted agricultural and management practices which may
generate noise, dust, odors, and other associated conditions may be used and are protected by the
Michigan right to farm act.?

 

 

 

This deed is dated as of . 20
Witnesses: CITY OF DETROIT,
A Michigan public body corporate

.. By: 

PRINT NAME 
Print: 
PRINT NAME Its: i

16

Detroit_l 5783808_2

 

 

?I-ut?cde-h 

STATE OF MICHIGAN 
)ss
COUNTY OF WAYNE 

 

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on 
20? by the of the
City of Detroit, a Michigan public body corporate, on behalf of the City.

 

Notary Public
County, Michigan

 

My commission expires:
Acting in the County of

 

Pursuant to 18-5-4 of the Detroit City Approved by City Council on June 13, 2017
Code, I hereby certify that proper and fair

consideration has been received by the City Approved by the Mayor on June 19, 2017
pursuant to this instrument.

 

Finance Director

Approved by Corporation Counsel pursuant
to 7.5-206 of the 2012 Charter of the City
of Detroit.

 

 

Corporation counsel

This instrument drafted by: When recorded return to:
City of Detroit Law Department

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 500

Detroit, Michigan 4-8226

Exempt from transfer tax pursuant to MCL and MCL 

17

Dclroit_l 5783808_2



 

454?.? .433.? .



   

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808



 

June 21, 2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Ave

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Memorandum of Understanding with City of Grosse Pointe Park
Reopening of Kercheval Avenue to Two-Way Traf?c

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit through its Planning Development Department, and the City of
Grosse Pointe Park have been in discussions regarding GPP reopening Kercheval Avenue
to two-way vehicular traf?c and the potential to redevelop certain areas at the boarder of both cities
along Kercheval Avenue between Alter Road and Waybum.

The City and GPP have reached agreement through that certain Memorandum of Understanding
(the that is substantially in the form included in the attached resolution and that requires:
(1) the reopening of Kercheval Avenue to two?way vehicular traf?c by GPP no later than August
1, 2019, provided that the road may be closed by either city for annual weekend public square
programing events between June 1 and September 30 of each year, (2) each city shall work
cooperatively on the development of plans for the reopening of Kercheval Avenue and the
surrounding area and (3) each city will support the potential redevelopment along Kercheval
Avenue only so long as such redevelopment does not require the closing of Kercheval Avenue or
the bridging of Kercheval Avenue by a building or other structure.

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to approve the MOU.

Respectfully submitted,

 

Maurice D. Cox
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, through its Planning and Development Department 
and the City of Grosse Pointe Park wish to enter into that certain Memorandum of
Understanding (the wherein the City and GPP have committed and agreed to: (1) the
reopening of Kercheval Avenue to two?way vehicular traf?c by GPP no later than August 1, 2019,
provided that the road may be closed by either city for annual weekend public square programing
events between June 1 and September 30 of each year, (2) each city shall work cooperatively on
the development of plans for the reopening of Kercheval Avenue and the surrounding area and (3)
each city will support the potential redevelopment along Kercheval Avenue only so long as such
redevelopment does not require the closing of Kercheval Avenue or the bridging of Kercheval
Avenue by a building or other structure; and

WHEREAS, the MOU is substantially in the form attached hereto in Exhibit A and made a part
hereof, with the three (3) commitments given in the preceding paragraph above to be known herein
as the Commitments?; now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the and be it further
RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby authorizes the Director of to modify, revise
and/or amend the ?nal form of the MOU at the discretion of the Director of provided that
the ?nal, executed MOU include the MOU Commitments; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the MOU will be considered con?rmed when executed by the Director,

or his authorized designee, and approved by Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

[see attached]

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF DETROIT
AND
THE CITY OF GROSSE POINTE PARK

This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into by the City of Detroit, a
Michigan municipal corporation and the City of Grosse Pointe Park a Michigan
municipal corporation, effective on 20 in order to allow cooperation and the
coordination of their respective activities in the reopening and redevelopment of certain portions
of Kercheval Avenue, as described below. The City and GPP each may be referred to herein as a
?Party? or collectively as the ?Parties,? as applicable.

 

RECITALS:

A. The City and GPP mutually desire that Kercheval Avenue in Grosse Pointe Park, east of
Alter Road and west of Maryland Street and that portion of Kercheval Avenue in the City of
Detroit, east of Alter Road and west of Maryland, (?Kercheval?), be and henceforth remain open
to two-way vehicular traf?c, with the exception of accommodating public square related functions
on weekends between June 01, and Sept 30 of each year. (art fairs, farmers markets, music and
entertainment events) and further the Parties hereto agree that any redevelopment along Kercheval
will not close or bridge over Kercheval.

B. GPP and the City believe that the opening of Kercheval in connection with the project
described herein is in the best interest of the public, and the Parties hereto wish to seek the
necessary approvals and consummation of this goal.

C. GPP and the City believe that a mutual approach to creating a streetscape improvement
plan with beautiful landscaping, park benches and other seating and appropriate paving in the
section immediately East of Alter Road will provide a more inviting approach to and from each
City and allow for street fairs and other similar activities open to all citizens.

D. The City and GPP desire to create a safe, walkable and visually pleasing environment at
the border of both Cities near Kercheval Avenue and Alter Road between Jefferson Avenue and
Mack Avenue (?Project Area?) and to work cooperatively to redevelop the Project Area in manner
that is mutually bene?cial to the residents of both Cities.

Accordingly, the City and GPP mutually acknowledge and agree to the following understanding:

Section 1 Purpose. The purpose of this MOU is to assist the Parties hereto in coordinating their
activities by providing a written memorandum of each Party?s legal obligations. This MOU neither
requires nor authorizes the disposition or acceptance of any property or the expenditure or receipt
of any funds by either Party.

Section 2 - Activities of the City. In furtherance of the reopening of Kercheval to two-way traf?c
and the redevelopment of the Project Area, the City will perform the following independent
activities:

Detroit_15819553_2

F.

The City will not close that portion of Kercheval Avenue under the City?s jurisdiction and
control that is immediately adjacent to and abuts GPP without the prior written approval
of GPP. Furthermore, any such closure shall be temporary and shall not exceed 72 hours
unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Mayor of the City of Detroit and the Grosse
Pointe Park City Manager.

The City has provided an alternative for the redevelopment along Kercheval that does not
include the closing or bridging of Kercheval by any structure. (Drawings and details of
these alternatives are attached hereto as Exhibit A). The City will work collaboratively
with GPP to develop plans for creating a streetscape improvement project with
landscaping, benches (and other seating) and appropriate paving on the area immediately
East of Alter Road.

The City will work with GPP on the development of a Pud/Master Plan for the Project Area
and pledges to assist, where possible, the creation or addition of additional off street public
parking.

The City shall take reasonable steps to inspect the property located at 21 15 Alter Road for
property maintenance ordinance and/or building code violations.

Obtain Detroit City Council authorization, by resolution, of this MOU.

Section 3 Activities of GPP. In furtherance of the reopening of Kercheval and the
redevelopment of the Project Area, GPP will perform the following independent activities at its

own cost:

A.

No later than August 1, 2019, open Kercheval to two-way vehicular traf?c, and not close
Kercheval (west of Maryland) without the City?s prior approval, with the exception of
annual public square weekend activities between June 1 and September 30 of each year.
Furthermore, any closure will only be temporary and for no longer than 72 hours unless
agreed to in writing by the Mayor of the City of Detroit and the Grosse Pointe Park City
Manager, which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld.

Support redevelopment along Kercheval, and for any potential redevelopment at the border
of the City and GPP, only if such redevelopment does not require the closing of Kercheval
or the bridging of Kercheval by a building or other structure. (The City has proposed and
GPP will assist with facilitating the placement for the potential Beaumont Health Systems
structure, Exhibit A).

GPP will work with the City on the development of a Pud/Master Plan for the Project Area.

GPP will seek to provide resources to assist with the construction of the streetscape
improvement plan and such improvements will be undertaken only upon joint plan
approval.

Obtain all necessary legislative, executive and other necessary approval and authorization
of this MOU for this MOU to be effective and enforceable.

Detroit_15819553_2

Section 4 Joint Activities of the Parties. The City and GPP will jointly perform, in furtherance
of the complete reopening of Kercheval and the redevelopment of the Project Area, the following
activities:

A. Work cooperatively to develop a Pud/Master Plan for the Project Area with the goal of
having the Pud/Master Plan completed and approved by March 1, 2020.

B. Agree the Pud/Master Plan for the Project Area shall include traf?c engineering, any
necessary relocation of utilities, signage, law enforcement, demolition of structures to
implement the Pud/Master Plan, branding and marketing resources, and maintenance.

C. With regard to any structure erected in connection with the Pud/Master Plan that is within
the borders of both Cities, GPP and the City shall: a. Immediately develop a ?joint building
code understanding? agreeable to counsel for the Parties hereto as in compliance with each
City?s building ordinances; b) appoint a key person who has full authority on behalf of
each government to handle obtaining all necessary permits. All plan approvals and
inspections shall occur In no event shall plan approvals take more than 2 weeks
after submission, and inspections more than 2 days after written request is made to the
Director of Buildings, Safety Engineering Environmental Department or his/her
designee.

Section 5 Meetings. The City and GPP will meet at their mutual convenience, whether in person
or by video conference, telephone, or other convenient means, on a periodic basis to review the
progress of each Party?s activities under this MOU, to coordinate further activities as may be
necessary, and to discuss any other relevant issues as may arise from time to time. For the ?rst
year after this MOU is executed, said meetings shall occur at least quarterly.

Section 6 - Effective Date, Term, and Termination. This MOU will be effective as of the date
upon which it has been signed by an authorized representative of each of the Parties (the ?Effective
Date?). This MOU will remain in effect until the legal obligations of each Party set forth above
are completed. However, the obligations of Sections and shall survive the termination
of this MOU and will remain enforceable. .

Section 7 Notices. Notices, requests, noti?cations, and other communications (collectively,
?Notices?) related to this MOU by either Party hereto will be given in writing, signed by an
authorized representative of the Party, and hand-delivered, mailed by ?rst-class mail or by
overnight courier, or emailed with receipt con?rmation enabled, and addressed as follows:

If to City: City of Detroit
Mayor?s Of?ce
2 Woodward Ave, Ste 1126
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Attention: F. Thomas Lewand
Email: lewandtr??ildelr?oiLmi.gov

If to GPP: City of Grosse Pointe Park
City Manager

Detroit 15819553 2

Attention: Dale Krajniak

15115 East Jefferson Avenue

Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan 48230
Email: 

-and-

City Attorney

Attention: Dennis J. Levasseur

6th Floor at Ford Field

1901 Saint Antoine Street

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Email: 

Section 8?Default, Remedies. A failure to complete or breach of any legal obligation created
hereunder shall constitute a Default. The non-defaulting Party shall give the defaulting Party
written notice of the Default at the addresses provided herein. If the Default is not cured within
30 days of receipt of said notice, the non-defaulting Party shall have all rights and remedies
available to them as provided by law.

Section 9 Miscellaneous.

A.

Relationship of the Parties. Each Party acknowledges that the Parties are independent of
each other and do not intend, as a result of this MOU or otherwise, to become a joint
venturer, partners, employees, servants, agents, representatives, contractors, and/or any
type of related business entities to one another with respect to the subject matter of this
MOU. Each Party hereto acknowledges that it is individually responsible for maintaining
compliance in all respects with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules,
regulations, and orders to which it is subject.

Assignment. This MOU sets forth each Party hereto?s intended activities in furtherance
of the reopening and redevelopment of Kercheval, and neither Party intends to delegate or
assign this MOU, or any portion of or responsibility under this MOU, without the prior
written notice to and written consent of the other Party.

Merger. This MOU sets forth the entire understanding between the Parties hereto as to
their activities and legal obligations in furtherance of the complete reopening and
redevelopment of Kercheval, and all prior discussions, negotiations, communications, and
understandings, whether written or verbal, are merged into this MOU.

Counterparts. This MOU may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute but one document. Each
counterpart may be executed by facsimile or electronic signature, which will be deemed to
be an original signature, to the extent permitted by applicable law.

Amendments. Notwithstanding anything in this MOU, any amendments or modi?cations
of this MOU must be in writing and signed by both Parties hereto.

Detroit, 15819553 2

Authority. This MOU shall not be effective unless and until the transactions and
respective responsibilities contemplated hereby have been approved by resolution of the
legislative bodies of each party, and this MOU is fully executed by a duly authorized agent
of GPP and the City.

[Signatures appear on next page]

Detroit 15819553 2

[Signature page to Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Detroit, and the City of
Grosse Pointe Park]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this MOU as of the dates shown
below, to be effective as of the Effective Date.

CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation

By:

 

Name:

 

Its:

 

Date:

 

CITY OF GROSSE POINTE PARK,
a Michigan municipal corporation

By:

 

Name:

 

Its:

 

Date:

 

Detroit 15819553 2

EXHIBIT A

Kereheval Development Drawing

Detroit 15819553_2

7L

'73

. Department of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone; 313-224_3901
cm. Public Works DEtl'Olt, MI 48226 Fax: 313-224-1464
DETROIT 

 

June 21, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 846: Eatori, 1215 Griswold, requests permission to provide Outdoor Caf? Service. This
service will be seasonal, and will convene April 1St through November 30th, yearly with yearly
administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body?s approval.

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction over temporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance of the
annual use-permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. No outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given by the
City Council towards the above-referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner?s compliance with provided instructions.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner's request and issued their approval with no
objections.

It is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 1St through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WM

Chisara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

 Department of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone: 313-224-3901
crrvup Public Works DetrOIt, MI 48226 Fax: 313-224-1464
DETROIT 

 

PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in order to regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter of the caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location of the outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division,- and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtures shall be removed from the public right-of?way during
the months of non?operation and placed in storage; and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy ofthis Resolution shall be recorded with the Office ofthe Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the ?permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays-

Qti'tp of ?etrm?t

Janice M. \NinFrey OFFICE OF THE CLERK ?atten West
th Clerk Deputycity derk/d?efofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, April 24, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Win?ey, Detroit Ciiy Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

846 Eatori Market, request a Seasonal Outdoor Cafe' Permit for 1215 Griswold St.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 Fax (313) 224-1466

HOUSING REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 908, Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224?6380

?It NIP

 

APPLICATION FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR CAFE PERMIT:

7 . r, . 
5473,73,: MAL/fk?af 3/5 3?75 505(1) 

 

 

 

 

NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAILEDDRESS)
3/ 53? MAP {/3391 
ADDRESS) 5pm 1S8 (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)
INFORMATIONlo?? x: 2m: U64 raw-r: mat/Ice I: 
NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) ADDRESS)
7% ?pt/II U?In?a-i-iq Er Uri x: i I 45/51} 7 3
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

OUTDOOR CAFE INFORMATION:
game. 

 

(CAFE ,e (7. 
ii" 51? game- ISD Dt' Iii-{I (I at? {jg
(am (STATE) (ZIP) 

 

TYPE OF OUTDOOR CAFE: (SUBMIT TO SUITE 908)
El PERMANENT (SUBMIT TO ENGINEERING, SUITE 642)

El ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY (SUBMIT TO BSEED, SUITE 401)
WILL PROPOSED OUTDOOR CAFE BE: OPEN El FIXED AWNING 

DO YOU SERVE YEM no 

 

(b SIGNATURE) (DATE)
I

 

Liam-m I 6,

 

 

DEPARTMENT USE 

 

 

 

 

APPROVED DATE:
DENIED DATE:
COMMENTS:

 

 

 

REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH APPLICATION (HARD COPY OR PDF):

11?x17? Site Plan Of1?=10? Scale, depicting dimensions of seating area and its setbacks from the street curb and
any Obstructions in the right-of?way, parking meter, tree trunk and light pole). A location Mag with the
north arrow of the subject site shouid be provided on the site glen. Attached Sample PIans* 

2. 11"x17" Floor and Elevation Plans of 1/8? or Scale, showing layout of the tables and chairs, service

corridor dimensions and location. In addition, show type and height of fencing including fastening details, and
photos/images of the type offencing/oote and street furniture that wj? be installed.

3. Provide Photos for the section of the right-of-way and buildingr in question.

(rev. 02-2018)



4/ 1 7/2019



180417_PalioLayouLjpg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14' 2?

B. 6-

 

 

 

Modular bun-Icade system

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10' 6"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Planter barricade with hedges

 

 

L- Existing Lamp Post

 



 



11'1

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . Modular barricade system
14'2- 10.6"
r) 1
23'. 6M 8' 6" 

 

(35> (8:97

a I Moduiar barricade system

-L

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I t, Planter barricade with hedge: I Existing Lamp Post
- J-
6! 
Former Shelby St. Curb
1215 GRESWOLE - 1' - - NORTH 9

FATSO ETS -

3lvd

Washington 

Washington 

 

St Aloysius Parish



...-.1215 GRISWOLD
LOCATION MAP

- - 2019-04-24 84 6

846 Petition of Eatori Market, request 0!
Seasonal Outdoor Caf? Permit for
1215 Griswold St.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW -
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

7+

Department of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone: 313-224-3901
Public Works Detroit, MI 48226 Fax: 313-224-1464
DETROIT . 

 

June 21, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 883: Cannelle, 45 Grand River Ave, requests permission to provide Outdoor Caf?
Service. This service will be seasonal, and will convene April 1St through November yearly with
yearly administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body?s approval.

 

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction over temporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance of the
annual use-permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. No outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given by the
City Council towards the above-referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner's compliance with provided instructions.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

It is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 1St through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WM

Chlsara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

. Department Of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone: 313-224-3901
Public Works Dem?; 48226 Fax: 313-224-1464
DETROIT 

 

PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in orderto regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter ofthe caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location ofthe outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division; and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtu res shall be removed from the public right-of?way during
the months of non-operation and placed in storage; and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy ofthis Resolution shall be recorded with the Office ofthe Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the "permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays-

(lift); at Eetrnit

Janice M- Winfrev OFFICE OF THE JQTY CLERK ?auen west
City ?ed: Deputy City derk/ChiefofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, May 20, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Win?ey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

883 Cannelle, request for a Seasonal Outdoor Cafe' permit for 45 West Grand River.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 224-1466

IT 885

APPLICATION FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR CAFE PERMIT:

 
 

HOUSING 8: REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 908, Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224-6380

 

 

 

INFORMATION: .
anne/ 3 3H15013l
NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS
45 Mosul g/{mc? /71 .226
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

INFORMATION:

MATT 
NAME) (TELEPHONE MB AIL ADDRESS a C0 
415/5 Wet/? Zen/:76] 110/?! 17? 5737.3

ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

OUTDOOR CAFE INFORMATION: . .
Can rid/E-

MAST Giraud/J (2m LIX 2 2c

ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

 

TYPE OF OUTDOOR CAFE: (SUBMIT To SUITE 908)
CI PERMANENT (SUBMIT To DP ENGINEERING, SUITE 642)

El ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY (SUBMIT T0 BSEED, SUITE 401 
WILL PROPOSED OUTDOOR CAFE BE: OPEN ENCLOSED El FIXED AWNING SIGNATURE) (DATE)
I DEPARTMENT USE 
APPROVED BY: DATE:
DENIED BY: DATE:

 

 

 

COMMENTS:

 

 

 

REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH APPLICATION (HARD COPY OR PDF):

1. 11"x17? Site Plan of 10? Scale, depicting dimensions Of seating area and its setbacks from the street curb and
any obstructions in the right? of-way, parking meter, tree trunk and light pole). A Location Mop with the
north arrow of the subject site shouid be provided on the site pion. Attached Sample 

2. 11?x17" Floor and Elevation Plans of 1/8? or Scale, showing layout of the tables and chairs, service
corridor dimensions and location. In addition, Show type and height of fencing including fastening details, and
photos/images of the type offencino/oote and street furniture that wiiI' be instoiied.

3. Provide Photos for the section of the right-of-wav and building in question.

(rev. 02?2018)

 

 

 

21001:! '9 

Muir-I

 

0131?! all
Imam 





 

 

 


MW 
I I'fl'm

 

 

 

 

mammal "0mm! L1

wuiu pom Lia-mm: M1 mum
n: Inn.? 115-. nuaumaop autumn ?mum
I'm-an rump mun-Irv

no: .uwnLuoa G)


 

mm mm 1

It; tut-?t Ina
W3 ileXOG?Od
wyalur - .?luguurld mummy


 

SZZW 
HENH UNVHS 91'


HOIHEILNI
amassuva


.1.?er 
HSINH 3001:] ?9 

 

 

 

 

a: 2.. ma n.3n

 

:31 I?ll in $31

 

MFG-ail: 

 

manor-12' mama;



 

 

ml Unix

50:1

 

1

I?i?l


I . 'Jcaii?l 21mm

2'

 

 

I HEJIE HTHIIF
r444 .

I'll-'5 

 

I1 IE 113A
K: 15 I B: 33:"

.1134; cgum 1W.

 

Elli-L: I7: serum

.4131: 331%]: Eli? 171?.

em: :3

 

12h]: m?lm

mmzozlm1m

1.-
?1

 

 

II 7-: 131-

nm aim- 

 

55 5:153:31

?141 I'm am 1?

 

x3;1??

 

 

.11? 11-121.! Em Th.

 

x1312; nuimni

[nu-n1: .1418: mm:

 

35335

Hwy: HM Mn

 

sun:- JEI an 

Fill!? a} 135+". rum:

Jmft'au I I

 

 

tum I51 2351111

Inn}: '1 .1135 rum:

 

1111-133] may:

 

w. an an IE

 

 

 

u-c ?1:11:

 

 

 

:3 ml 

I'll?

 

MEIE ?h:m

 

 

9-1121}; ?Him

 

 

.I?l 2?3! E: ESE

Ei?

 

u:nru.  Lll?lm

 

J5 til in

I

..4

 



 

1-4 'Ql'l'lt .11: an 'm 3.12



 

147.14. mas-c.

 

 

lull. Imam 

 

.


:uqn.? 232.12.
uni-u]: auburn

?lm-

 





i

I

I
?"1353 on

?Ed 33? it'll?1155

T?rlu

 

WZJEE main:

 

and a; a: at: a: 



21h

 

11?] :nzzrii':

13mm

 

:11 In IDII mm H:

 

 

 

3-15! In: Ell-7351":

 

 

 

$th I?Iiu 

 

wing

_Il-

 

1.3139111

 

WHIIY. 'Jlil?il?

 

 

:56 Eli); In

113-5 



 

annual-l: mural?3 

 

WW1 Hernia-s ?152ml

 

Mail-F a: x; E: 

 

 

 

"mm?a 5-3 an If: 
Erma-1??

??lm WFJJII

 



 

 

I :nth; n:

 

3212335 ?31311

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5:741: x2313

 

 

 

 

?allLill?ll?

 

 

?Kill :namm

?iml? 1'13 

 

 

 

 

?ma 

Ij?m '1 

 

?3.1335 51.3551]:

Gil-'1'? 

 

tin-u r61 Inn-1

 

$321133 ?Bill?
M35133 1334335



 

 

 

Um mm



 

 

 

mu Mi

 

 

 

. f, lbg?' r?p'n:

 

CIOOJ

 

 

           

           
 
 

. I .
- 

. - 
?Q' 

 

HRESTAURANT SEATING

A DIVISION OF BARN FURNITURE

Restaurant Seating
62% Sepulveda Blvd., Van Nuys, California, 91411, United States
a requests@restaurantseating.com 888.302.2276

G) Retail Store Hours
Monday - Saturday 10AM - 6PM
Sunday 11AM - 5PM

Italian Cafe Chair

 

Details
Stock DRFNE8053
Dimensions 
Description

This Fabric stripes Aluminum Side Chair is a beautiful chair with its perfect combination of Red and White corors
that goes well with the aluminum frame. This side chair is easy to clean, extremely durable and stackable feature
makes this a must own furniture. Contact our Contract Sales Department for more information.

Seat: 16" x16 1/2" x171/2"H

BRESTAURANT SEATING

A DIVISION OF BARN 

Restaurant Seating

 

6206 Sepulveda Blvd., Van Nuys, California, 91411, United States
requests@restaurantseating.com 888.302.2276

G) Retail Store Hours
Monday - Saturday 10AM 6PM
Sunday 11AM - 5PM

Sapele Patio Outdoor Slat Top

 

Details

Stock DRAWTSAPELE

Description

Table Tops are Available in Any Size

Solid Sapele Outdoor Tops These are our ultimate slatted outdoor table tops. They are the finest solid wood tops
available and are suitable for exterior or interior use. Shown is the Sapele Wood in a Natural Exterior Oil Rubbed
?nish or choose Character American Black Walnut. You can also choose an exterior Urethane clear coat over
stain. You have unlimited color choices to suite your design needs.

There are no glue lines to open no matter how hot or dry the climate and we use stainless steel fasteners to

2019-05-20 883

883 Petition ofCannelle, request for a
Seasonal Outdoor Cafe? permit for 45
West Grand River.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

'75

Department of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone: 313-224-3901
cu?nror PUbliC works DetrOit? Ml 48226 Fax: 313-224-1464
DETROIT 

 

June 21, 2019

Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 891: Moot: Pizzeria, 1234 Library, requests permission to provide Outdoor Caf? Service.
This service will be seasonal, and will convene April 1St through November 30th, yearly with yearly
administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body?s approval.

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction over temporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance of the
annual use-permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. No outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given by the
City Council towards the above-referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner's compliance with provided instructions.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

It is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 1St through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WM

Chisara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

 Department Of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone; 313-224-3901
cnvor PUbliC works DEtrOit? Ml 48226 Fax: 313?224-1464
DETROIT 

 

PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in order to regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter of the caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location ofthe outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division,- and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtures shall be removed from the public right-of?way during
the months of non-operation and placed in storage; and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy of this Resolution shall be recorded with the Office ofthe Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the ?permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays?

(?fty of Barrett

Janice M- Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CLERK Caven West
City Cleric Deputy City Clerk/?lthiefnjr Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, May 29, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

891 Brian Hurttienne, request for a Permanent Outdoor Cafe? Permit for the
property located at 1234 Library St, Detroit, MI.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224?1466

HOUSING 83' REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 908, Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224-6380 CITY OF DETROIT

APPLICATION FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR CAFE PERMIT:

NOTE: ALI. APPLICANTS MUST SUBMIT ZONING CLEARANCE WITH THIS FORM BEFORE YOU CAN BEGIN OUTDOOR

 

 

CAFE PROCESS. PLEASE PROCEED TO BSEED ZONING SECTION, SUITE 401.

INFORMATION: . -
OMAN HUMTIEMNE mama-20w?; 

 

 

 

 

 

NAM (TELEPHONE NUMBER) 
am Hazel Omit Mi aezei
(PETITION ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)
INFORMATION: .
LEDHY 6W2 Jcamewwizpizmam
NAME) ITELE PHONE NUMBER) IEMAIEADDRESS)
Jae/i Om ram" MI 4322::
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)
OUTDOOR CAEEINEORMATION: (CAFENAMEI Max:722 PIZZA
(222+ uamw smear mate-air Ml 4242.29
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP)

 

TYPE or OUTDOOR CAFE: SEASONAL- PROCEED To HEIRD, Sums 903'
PROCEED TO ENGINEERING, SUITE 642
El ON YOUR OINN PROPERTY PROCEED TD BSEED, SUITE 401

WILL OUTDOOR CAFE BE: EOPEN ENCLOSED FIXED AWNING:

Do You SERVE Amery/gag was N0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4' 
SIGNATURE) (DATE)
DEPARTMENT USE 
APPROVED BY: DATE:
DENIED BY: DATE:
COMMENTS:

 

 

 

 

REQUIRED ATTACHMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH APPLICATION COPY on PDF):

1. 11?x17" Site Plan of 1"=10' Scale, deoicting dimensions of seating area and its setbacks from the street curb
and any obstructions in the right-of~way, (Le. parking meter, tree trunk and light pole). A Location Map with
the north arrow of the subject site should be provided on the site plan.

2. 11"x17? Floor Plan Of or Scale, showing layout of the tables and chairs, service corridor
dimensions and location. In addition, Show elevation, type and height of fencing including fastening details.

3. 11" 17? Elevation Plan of 1/ Scale, and ghotos for section of the right~of?wag and building in Question.

(See Attached Sample Plans}
(rev. 0605:4101 ?(my



Department Of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone; 313-224-3901
Detroit, Ml 48226 Fax: 313?224?1464

curvor Public Works
DETROIT 
June 21, 2019 19

Honorable City Council:

 

RE: Petition No. 392: Taqueira El Nacimiento, 7400 Vernor Hwy, requests permission to provide
Outdoor Caf? Service. This service will be seasonal, and will convene April 1St through November 30th,
yearly with yearly administrative review, from the date of your Honorable Body?s approval.

The Department of Public Works (DPW) who has jurisdiction over temporary encroachment in the public
right-of?way, for Outdoor Caf? use, has approved this request contingent upon the petitioner?s
compliance with applicable City ordinance related to outdoor caf? activities and the remittance ofthe
annual use-permit fee to the DPW.

The Detroit Health Department (DHD) has approved this petition, subject to the petitioner?s strict
adherence to the 199 Food Code, Food Law of 2000 and City Ordinance, Chapter 21. No outdoor grilling
is permitted without approval from the Health Department?s Food Safety Division.

Approval from the Detroit Police Liquor License Bureau is contingent upon the final action given by the
City Council towards the above-referenced petition. Prior approval from the Central District Precinct
does not cover serving liquor in outdoor caf? area until the Detroit Police Liquor License

Bureau has given approval.

The Department of Public Works/ Traffic Engineering Division has approved this request
contingent upon the petitioner?s compliance with provided instructions.

The Legislative Policy Division has reviewed the petitioner?s request and issued their approval with no
objections.

it is the recommendation of DPW that the petitioner?s request be granted subject to the terms and
conditions provided in the attached Resolution and that this service will convene April 1St through
November 30th yearly with yearly administrative review from the date of your Honorable Body?s
approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WM

Chisara Brown, Mobility Planner

CC: Caitlin Malloy Marcon, Deputy Director Complete Streets Division

Department Of Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone; 313-224-3901
(mo, Pu b ic Works Detroit, MI 48226 Fax: 313-224-1464
DETROIT 

 

PROVIDED, That the designated outdoor seating area shall be properly identified through the use of
clear delineation in order to regulate and control the serving of liquor within the perimeter ofthe caf?;
and

PROVIDED, That the outline and location ofthe outdoor caf? is not to be different from the site plan
approved by the and

PROVIDED, That if any tent, canopy or other enclosure is to be utilized on the subject site, the applicant
shall secure prior approval from Building, Safety Engineering Environmental Department and the
Department of Public Works/City Engineering Division; and

PROVIDED, That all physical barriers and fixtures shall be removed from the public right-of?way during
the months of non-operation and placed in storage; and

PROVIDED, That a certified copy of this Resolution shall be recorded with the Office of the Register of



Deeds for Wayne County at the ?permittee expense;

Adopted as follows:
Yeas-
Nays-

(titty of E?etmit

Janice M- Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CLERK Caven West
City Clair Deputy City Clerk/Chief of Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, May 29, 2019

To: he Department or Commission Listed Below

rom: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

DPW CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

892 Taqueria El Nacimiento, request for a Seasonal Outdoor Cafe' Permit for the
property located at 7400 West Vernor, Detroit, MI

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax {313) 224-1466

HOUSING 8: REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 908, Detroit, MI 48226
(313) 224-6380

 
   

{.r?tl 
DETROIT

APPLICATION FOR SEASONAL OUTDOOR PERMIT:

INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

Taqueria El Nacimiento 313-554-1790 einacimientoggyahoo?om

NAME) (TELEPHONE NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS)
7400 West Vernor Detroit MI 48209
ADDRESS) (CITY) (STA TE) (ZIP)
INFORMATION:

Rodrigo Padilla 313?978?4122 elnacimiento@yahoo.com

NAME) NUMBER) (EMAIL ADDRESS)
22076 Hunter Circle N. MI 48180

ADDRESS) (CITY) (STA TE) (ZIP)

OUTDOOR CAFE INFORMATION:
Taqueria El Nacimiento

 

 

(CA PE NAME)
7400 West Vernor DetLQit Ml 48209
(CITY) (STA TE) (ZIP)

 

 

TYPE OF OUTDOOR CAFE: (SUBMIT To Suns 908)
PERMANENT (SUBMIT T0 ENGINEERING, SUITE 642)

CI ON YOUR OWN PROPERTY (SUBMIT T0 BSEED, SUITE 401 

WILL PROPOSED OUTDOOR CAFE BE: OPEN CI ENCLOSED CI FIXED AWNING 

DO YOU NOD 
05-23-19

SIGNA TURE) (DA TE)

 

 

   

DEPARTMENT USE 

 

 

 

 

APPROVED DATE:
DENIED B?f: DATE:
COMMENTS:

 

 

 

 

REQUIRED BE 

 

 

1. 11"x17? Site Plan of1?=10? Scale, depicting dimensions of seating area and its setbacks from the street curb and
any Obstructions in the right-of?way, parking meter, tree trunk and light pole). A Location Map with the
north arrow of the subiect site shouio? be provided an the site Dion. Attached Sample 

2. 11"x17? Floor and Elevation Plans of 1/8? or Scale, showing layout Of the tables and chairs, service
corridor dimensions and location. In addition, show type and height of fencing including fastening details, and
photos/images of the type of fencinq/gate and street furniture that be instoiied.

3. Provide Photos for the section of the right-of-way and building in question.

(rev, 02-2018)

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

May 23, 2019

RE: Taqueria El Nacimiento an outdoor cafe area for 7400 W. Vernor

To whom it may concern,
Taqueria El Nacimiento is seeking approval from the appropriate city departments and/or
agencies for their review and recommendation as well as permission from the Honorable City
Council for the Outdoor Caf? Service at 7400 W. Vernor for this season having begun on April 1.
The architectural designs and elevations have been provided. The proposed patio space has
been approved by the Michigan Liquor Commission and the License is in good standing with
State of Michigan.

Please do not hesitate in contacting me for any questions and concerns or follow up materials.

Sincerely

 

Rodrigo? Padilla
313-978?4122

 


HJJTOS

lull-II lm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

mam-Br In! El?

 

 

 

cum 

EL NACIMENTO
SIDEWALK PATIO PLAN

7400 WEST VERNOR HWY.

DETROITI Ml

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EL NACINIIENTO
SIDEWALK PATIO PLAN
7400 WEST VERNOR HWY.
DETROIT, MI 48209

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX:

@085 STEAREA 24' 1m 50 FT.
BUILDING 6.243 50. FT.

 

 

SIT. STEPLAN
ZONED: 54

LIE GROUP 
(INSTRUCTION TYPE 

 

 

 

PAMNGHIOVIDED 47 a 9 X20
2 2m; 5.91055 9 rrxzo'

MCHIGAN BUILMG 

 

 

 

 

LEGAL DESCRIPTICMI:

MFTOF 55E SEBURNS SUB 
WCR 
COMMONLYIGHOHN AS: 7613.7 VERNON 

LEW P35 Pbif?. WCR 

1.1.5133? 

VENOR HWY 51 LH WCR 15/115 )0
X144
COMMONLYIGIOM AS: 7? {mm 

VERNOR HWY 52 BURNS SUB LH PGSHATS. WCR JO

COMMONLY 7411 W. 

WSTAIRN SIFTOFSSE SGBURNSSUE Wm
X5107.


SIMILAR DESIGN NO SCALE

 

WSTAIR 136 BURNS SUB LH H5 HATS. WCR 18195 30 XUQ
23.13 SFAIR

 

 

 

 

 

 

sumac 1!


 


3
2:
.5
WI 

 

 

 

 

 

EL NACIMIENTO BUILDING

WEST VERNOR 

EXISTING SITE PLAN SCALE 

r-unrf-H rr 
Inmrmaucmp.)


PAVEDLOT

CONCRETE WIPE


mm?: mum-am.
TREES mm.)

5 

 

ACCESS 
GRASSAREA
4 FT. HT. MOUGIT

mow ATPA l'l'c

TABLE mo awn: mm

EX WALK

FIRE WT

 

 

 

 

 

WY

 

 

 

 

 



S:

0.50:

02?
0- 

FEM
l'gl??
54ml."

423?
zuoE

no.?

"1th

WIN 
Gm
?5 910m


 


i



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


l?IfImasque: ant:

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2019-05-29 892

892 Petition of aqueria El Nacimiento,
request for a Seasonal Outdoor Cafe'
Permit for the property located at
7400 West Vernor, Detroit, 

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

?17

MEMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Roy McCalister, Member
Detroit City Council
DATE: June 21, 2019
RE: Requesting an Amendment to the proposed Secondary Street Signs replacement ordinance

 

My of?ce is requesting an amendment to the proposed Secondary Street Signs ordinance to allow for a
community appeals process.

Thank you,

Roy McCalister, Jr.
Detroit City Council

CC: City Council
City Clerk
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

(City of Eetrnit 1 

CITY COUNCIL
COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA 

MEMORANDUM

To: Alton James. Chair
City Planning Commission

CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 
DATE: June 25, 2019
RE: Zoning Ordinance Amendments

 

Please draft an ordinance amending the zoning ordinance to address the following Issues
impacting retail corridors:

- Reduction of parking requirements for small businesses

- Separating second-hand clothing stores from the uses requiring a special land use permit
(pawn shops, etc.)

I Making a-frame signage by-right in our commercial corridors (this is part of the new sign
ordinance update).

