?Es??aeb.
161

BUD GET, ., .
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

Christopher Gulock, AICP

David Whitaker, Esq. @it? ?t EBtr?it . Derrick Headd

Dirfao" Marcel Hurt, Esq.
[rvm Corley,.Jr. CITY COUNCIL Kimani Jeffrey
Executive Policy Manager Anne r'e La an
Marcel] R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION Ma ?g
58? City 1mm? 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center am'e "rp 
Jane? Chapma? Detroit Michigan 48226 cam'y" Nelson
Deputy Director . Kim 
Phone. (313) 224-4946 Fax. (313) 224-4336 Malina Powers, PM,

John Alexander Jennifer Reinhardt
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley
M. Rory Bolger, Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Dru mb Underwood
George Etheridge Ashley A. Wilson
Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council

FROM: David Whitaker, Director 

Legislative Policy Division
DATE: June 20, 2019
RE: Agreement for Administration and Operation of Programs Funded Through

the Detroit Workforce Training Fund

The Legislative Policy Division (LPD) has been requested to provide a report on the Agreement
for Administration and Operation of Programs Funded through the Detroit Workforce Training
Fund between the City of Detroit (City) and Detroit Employment Solutions Corporation (DESC).
The issue is whether there is any concern with regard to the provision providing for general fund
dollars appropriated by City Council.

The modi?cations made to the agreement addresses the term used to de?ne the monetary
payment to be made when an entity is not in compliance with the Executive Orders changing the
term from ??nancial penalties? to ?workforce contributions? and the addition of the Workforce
Training Fund receiving ?appropriations approved by City Council. These modi?cations are also
re?ected in the Workforce Training Fund Policies and Procedures identi?ed in the Agreement as
Exhibit C.

The Agreement provides that the ?Workforce Training Fund? as de?ned therein includes two
sources of funding. One source is the workforce contributions imposed under Executive Orders
2014-4?and 2016-1 on non-compliant developers, general contractors, prime contractors and
subcontractors engaged to service all construction projects funded, in whole or in part by the
City. The second source of funding the Workforce Training Fund is through budget
appropriation of City funds approved by City Council. This appropriation should be Speci?cally
designated in the City?s budget to be provided to the Workforce Training Fund and not derived
from other appropriations not designated for the fund.

Both sources of funding are to be utilized by the DESC as provided in Section 3.1 of the
Agreement ?to support initiatives of DESC to provide training, support and placement for
Detroiters seeking jobs in the skilled construction trades and/or the permanent jobs resulting
from new development.?

LPD has not identi?ed any concerns relative to the terms and conditions of the Agreement. LPD
does reiterate that it is important that any funds intended as a budget appropriation by City
Council to the Workforce Training Fund be identi?ed specifically to the fund.

If we can be of further assistance, please call upon us.

 (titty of Eetrnit

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY OUNCIL

glare" B- LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
emor City Planner 

Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Mun1c1pal Center

Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224?4946 Fax: (313) 224?4336
John Alexander
LaKisha Barclift, Esq.
M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.
Tasha Cowen
Richard Drumb
George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein

   
  

TO: COUNCIL MEMBERS
FROM: David Whitaker, Direct 

Chris ck, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

Legislative Policy Div tai?f
DATE: June 26, 2019
RE: Resolution in Support of Extending Expiring NEZ Certificates and a Report

on Pending NEZ Legislation (Preliminary Report)

In the Budget Finance and Audit Committee, Council President Pro-Tom Mary Shef?eld
requested that the Legislative Policy Division draft a resolution in support of the Michigan
Legislature enacting legislation that would extend the life of expiring new a rehab
Neighborhood Enterprise Zonel certi?cates. In addition, LPD has been requested to reference
any pending legislation in the resolution which supports extending expiring new and rehab
NEZS as well.

In regard to this request, upon our research, we discovered one pending piece of legislation,
Senate Bill 0319 (2019), which may actually prove to be detrimental to Detroit residents that
are seeking NEZs, since it seeks to rais the thresholds for NEZ quali?cation. If passed, the bill
would amend the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Act to modify the de?nition of "rehabilitated
facility" and require the State Treasurer to adjust the amounts prescribed in the de?nition
annually beginning in 2020.

Currently, ?rehabilitated facility? means an existing structure or a portion of an existing
structure with a current true cash value of $80,000 or less per unit that has or will have as its
primary purpose residential housing, consisting of one to eight units, the owner of which
proposes improvements that if done by a licensed contractor would cost in excess of $5,000 per
owner-occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is less, or $7,500 per nonowner-
occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is less, or the owner proposes
improvements that would be done by the owner and not a licensed contractor and the cost of the
materials would be in excess of $3,000 per owner-occupied unit or $4,500 per nonowner?

 

NEIGHBORHOOD ENTERPRISE ZONE ACT, Public Act 147 of 1992, MCL 207.771 et seq.
1

occupied unit and will bring the structure into conformance with minimum local building code
standards for occupancy or improve the livability of the units while meeting minimum local
building code standards.

Under the bill, instead, "rehabilitatedfacility" would mean, except as otherwise provided, an
existing structure or a portion of an existing structure with a current true cash value of
$120, 000 or less per unit that has or will have as its primary purpose residential housing,
consisting of one to eight units, the owner of which proposes improvements that if done by a
licensed contractor would cost in excess of $1 0,000 per owner-occupied unit or 50% of the true
cash value, whichever is less, or $15, 000 per nonowner-occupied unit or 50% of the true cash
value, whichever is less, or the owner proposes improvements that would be done by the owner
and not a licensed contractor and the cost of the materials would be in excess of 000 per
owner?occupied unit or $4,500 per nonowner?occupied unit and will bring the structure into
conformance with minimum local building code standards for occupancy or improve the
livability of the units while meeting minimum local building code standards.2

To summarize, the proposed Senate Bill 0319 (2019), seeks to adjust the valuation threasholds
to qualify for a NEZ upward, to account for the increased values of residential properties in
Michigan. However, the values of homes in the city of Detroit are somewhat lower than those
in many Michigan communities, so the passing of this legislation may disqualify many Detroit
residential households. Therefore, Council may want LPD to address this issue in a resolution
as well.

We are currently working cooperatively with the Assessors Off?ce to determine the most
effective way to convey the City?s position regarding this issue (83. 0319) and for the

extension of NEZs. Therefore, we plan to ?nalize the resolution and this report in two weeks.

Bill Summary

 

 

Document Description
SB. 0319 of Economic development,- neighborhood enterprise zones; definition of rehabilitated
2019 facility; modify. Amends sec. 2 of 1992 PA 147 (MCL 207.772) adds sec. 2a.

 

 

 

I

"Raising the value of an existing structure or a portion of an existing structure
with a current true cash value from $80,000.00 to $120,000.00 or less per unit
that has or will have as its primary purpose residential housing, consisting of
to 8 units, the owner of which proposes improvements that if done by a
licensed contractor would raise the cost from in excess of $5,000.00 to a new
minimum in excess of $10,000.00 per owner occupied unit or 50% of the true
cash value, whichever is less, or from $7,500.00 to $15,000.00 per nonowner-
occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value.

Impact

    

 

 

Please contact us if we can be of any further assistance.

Attachment: Senate Bill 0319 (2019)

 

2 Senate Fiscal Agency Report Senate Bill 319 (as introduced Sponsor: Senator Jeremy Moss, 6-10-19
2

SENATE BILL No. 319

SENATE BILL No. 319

May 14, 2019, Introduced by Senator MOSS and referred to the Committee on Economic and Small
Business Development.

A bill to amend 1992 PA 147, entitled
"Neighborhood enterprise zone act,"
by amending section 2 (MCL 207.772), as amended by 2010 PA 9, and
by adding section 2a.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN ENACT:

Sec. 2. As used in this act:

"Commission? means the state tax commission created by
1927 PA 360, MCL 209.101 to 209.107.

"Condominium unit? means that portion of a structure
intended for separate ownership, intended for residential use, and
established pesseeneree?UNDER the condominium act, 1978 PA 59, MCL
559.101 to 559.276. Condominium units within a qualified historic
building may be held under common ownership.

(0) "Developer" means a person who is the owner of a new

01518'19 JLB

6L8 



facility at the time of construction or of a rehabilitated facility
at the time of rehabilitation for which a neighborhood enterprise
zone certificate is applied for or issued.

"Facility" means a homestead facility, a new facility, or
a rehabilitated facility.

"Homestead facility" means 1 of the following:

U) An existing structure, purchased by or transferred to an
owner after December 31, 1996, that has as its primary purpose
residential housing consisting of 1 or 2 units, 1 of which is
occupied by an owner as his or her principal residence and that is
located within a subdivision platted pursuant to state law before
January 1, 1968 other than an existing structure for which a
certificate will or has been issued after December 31, 2006 in a
city with a population of 750,000 or more, is located within a
subdivision platted pursuant to state law before January 1, 1968.

An existing structure that has as its primary purpose
residential housing consisting of 1 or 2 units, 1 of which is
occupied by an owner as his or her principal residence that is
located in a subdivision platted after January 1, 1999 and is
located in a county with a population of more than 400,000 and less
than 500,000 according to the most recent decennial census and is
located in a city with a population of more than 100,000 and less
than 125,000 according to the most recent decennial census.

"Local governmental unit" means a qualified local
governmental unit as that term is defined under section 2 of the
obsolete property rehabilitation act, 2000 PA 146, MCL 125.2782, or

a county seat.

01518'19 JLB

 



"New facility" means 1 or both of the following:

U) A new structure or a portion of a new structure that has
as its primary purpose residential housing consisting of or 2
units, 1 of which is or will be occupied by an owner as his or her
principal residence. New facility includes a model home or a model
condominium unit. New facility includes a new individual
condominium unit, in a structure with or more condominium units,
that has as its primary purpose residential housing and that is or
will be occupied by an owner as his or her principal residence.
Except as provided in subparagraph new facility does not
include apartments.

(H) A new structure or a portion of a new structure that
meets all of the following:

(A) Is rented or leased or is available for rent or lease.

(B) Is a mixed use building or located in a mixed use building
that contains retail business space on the street level floor.

(C) Is located in a qualified downtown revitalization
district.

"Neighborhood enterprise zone certificate" or
"certificate? means a certificate issued pursuant to sections 4, 5,
and 6.

"Owner" means the record title holder of, or the vendee of
the original land contract pertaining to, a new facility, a
homestead facility, or a rehabilitated facility for which a
neighborhood enterprise zone certificate is applied for or issued.

"Qualified assessing authority" means 1 of the following:

H) For a facility other than a homestead facility, the

01518'19 JLB

commission.

For a homestead facility, the assessor of the local
governmental unit in which the homestead facility is located.

"Qualified downtown revitalization district" means an area
located within 1 or more of the following:

U) The boundaries of a downtown district as defined in
201 OF THE
RECODIFIED TAX INCREMENT FINANCING ACT, 2018 PA 57, MCL 125.4201.

The boundaries of a principal shopping district or a
business improvement district as defined in section 1 of 1961 PA
120, MCL 125.981.

The boundaries of the local governmental unit in an area
that is zoned and primarily used for business as determined by the
local governmental unit.

U) "Qualified historic building" means a property within a
neighborhood enterprise zone that has been designated a historic
resource as defined under section 266 of the income tax act of
1967, 1967 PA 281, MCL 206.266.

"Rehabilitated facility" means, EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE
PROVIDED IN SECTION 2A, an existing structure or a portion of an
existing structure with a current true cash value of $867669706
$120,000.00 or less per unit that has or will have as its primary
purpose residential housing, consisting of 1 to 8 units, the owner
of which proposes improvements that if done by a licensed
contractor would cost in excess of per owner-
occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is less, or

per nonowner?occupied unit or 50% of the true

01518'19 JLB

cash value, whichever is less, or the owner proposes improvements
that would be done by the owner and not a licensed contractor and
the cost of the materials would be in excess of $3,000.00 per
owner-occupied unit or $4,500.00 per nonowner?occupied unit and
will bring the structure into conformance with minimum local
building code standards for occupancy or improve the livability of
the units while meeting minimum local building code standards.
Rehabilitated facility also includes an individual condominium
unit, in a structure with 1 or more condominium units that has as
its primary purpose residential housing, the owner of which
proposes the above described improvements. Rehabilitated facility
also includes existing or proposed condominium units in a qualified
historic building with or more existing or proposed condominium
units. Rehabilitated facility does not include a facility
rehabilitated with the proceeds of an insurance policy for property
or casualty loss. A qualified historic building may contain
multiple rehabilitated facilities.

SEC. 2A. (1) BEGINNING IN 2020 AND EACH YEAR THEREAFTER, THE
STATE TREASURER SHALL ADJUST THE DOLLAR AMOUNTS DESCRIBED IN
SECTION BY AN AMOUNT DETERMINED BY THE STATE TREASURER AT THE
END OF EACH CALENDAR YEAR TO REFLECT THE CUMULATIVE ANNUAL
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.

(2) AS USED IN THIS SECTION, PRICE MEANS THE
MOST COMPREHENSIVE INDEX OF CONSUMER PRICES AVAILABLE FOR THIS
STATE FROM THE BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS OF THE UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.

01518?19 Final Page JLB

(titty at Eetruit

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK

Janice M. Winfrey Caven A. West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk

June 24, 2019

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Application for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for
WEST VILLAGE NEZ Area

Dear Council Members:

On October 21, 1992, your Honorable Body established Neighborhood
Enterprise Zones. I am in receipt of one (1) application for a Neighborhood
Enterprise Zone Certificate. THIS APPLICATION HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BY THE LEGISLATIVE POLICY
DIVISION, A COPY OF WHICH IS ATTACHED. Therefore, the attached
Resolution, if adopted by your Honorable Body, will approve this application.

?espec?ullmubrmji

Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk

l?


Enc.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 200 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224-3260 0 Fax (318) 224-1466 0 TTY: 711 or (800) 694?3777

Resolution

 

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Michigan Public Act 147 of 1992 allows the local legislative body to
establish Neighborhood Enterprise Zones for the purpose of providing exemption
from as valorem property taxes, and the imposition of specific property tax in lieu
of as valorem taxes; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council has established a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone for the following area, in the manner required by and pursuant to Public Act
147 of 1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council approve the
following address for receipt of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for a

fifteen-year period:

Zone Address Application No.
West Village 8001 Kercheval 06-85?45

 . ..

on 'rI I. 
Alibi 
. I. 5.

Alton James @it? at EBtrnit Brenda Goss?Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Vicecmi?Semm CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 3:330:33?? MA LEE.)
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawltiwski,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e?mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

June 20, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certi?cate Application for a new 4-story mixed?use
building with 92 apartments at 8001 Kercheval Avenue in the West Village NEZ
area (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The of?ce of the City Planning Commission (CPC) has received an application for
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) certi?cate forwarded from the of?ce of the City Clerk.
The application is for a new 4-story mixed?use building with 92 apartments at 8001 Kercheval
Avenue in the West Village NEZ area. The project is being developed by Kercheval Associates
LLC. CPC staff has reviewed the applications and recommends approval.

The subject properties have been con?rmed as being within the boundaries of the West Village?
NEZ which was established on November 15, 2000, and should be eligible for an NEZ certi?cate
under State Act 147 of 1992 as currently written. The property to be developed is at the
northeast comer of Kercheval and Van Dyke Avenues. The NEZ certi?cate application appears
to have been submitted prior to the issuance of any applicable building permits.

Please contact our of?ce should you have any questions.

Respectfully submitted,

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director CPC
Christopher J. Gulock, AICP

cc: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

?In. 1.7?


David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, 
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

QEity of metrnit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Christopher Gulock, 
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashley A. Wilson

0 In 2016, the Council developed a new system of review for the approval of
certain NEZ certificates:

LPD assisted in developing a system for which the Council applied a greater level
of scrutiny at the NEZ Zone approval stage. The recent upswing in the use of NEZs
for the development of apartment buildings and condos downtown and in

?Downtown Revitalization Districts,

331

residents, created a need for this review.

This Neighborhood Enterprise Zone was established in 3.25?

instead of just neighborhood single family

which is prior to the

development of a system of additional ?nancial review for NEZS in 2016, therefore there
is no additional ?scal review for this item.

 

Created under Michigan 2008: Public Act 204 Public Act 228

1

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

. 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1008
ITY OF Detroit, Ml 48226

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER phone: (313) 224-4519
OFFICE OF CONTRACTING PROCUREMENT Fax; (313) 523-1150


DETROI

   
   
 

June 24, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave.

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: REQUEST FOR APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO SHORT TERM LEASES FOR TEMPORARY
PROPERTY USE UP TO 30 DAYS AND UNDER $10,000.

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement Department is hereby requesting the authorization
of your Honorable Body to allow the Coleman A. Young Municipal Airport Department (?Airport?) to
enter into short term leases of Airport T-Hanger properties as requests for such are received, provided
that the term of said leases charge rent of less than $25,000 and include a lease term of up to 30 days.

The current terminal (built in 1966) is used for private, cargo, and corporate airplanes under the
Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)jurisdiction. The department
may make, with the approval of the City Council, all contracts or leases necessary to carry out the
objectives and purposes of the department, as provided in this section. These requests are
??equently received by the Airport with insuf?cient time to negotiate a short term lease

and seek the approval of your Honorable Body. In these instances, the City sometimes foregoes
certain revenue that it might otherwise realize.

With authority to execute and approve short term leases, Airport may better perform

its duty under Section 4-1-2 of the Detroit City Code ?to supervise, manage and control all city
properties and equipment devoted to aviation activities, both as to supervision, maintenance and
operation," as well as to better capitalize on revenue from temporary use of the City?s T-Hangers.
The Airport shall work with the Law Department to ensure that all short term leases under this
authority are approved as to form and work with the Finance Department to certify that such
revenue has been received by the City. The Airport Director or his designated staff will provide a
quarterly report of all short term leases to the City Council.

We respectfully request your approval and grant of authority to the Airport Department to enter

into such short term leases pursuant to the above referenced conditions and for the bene?t of the
City of Detroit by adopting the attached resolution. We ask that this authority remain in full force
and effect for a period of 18 months ?'om the date of approval to allow the Airport time to codify this
policy into the appropriate section of the Detroit City Code.

Respect?illy submitt

  

Boysie Jackson, Chic Procurement Officer



RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

RESOLVED,

RESOLVED,

 

The Coleman A. Young Municipal Airport Department (?Airport?) was established to
exercised and perform in accordance with the general laws of the United States and this
state, the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration and the state
department of aeronautics to acquire and hold airport, heliports, seaplane bases, landing
?elds or sites and any other aeronautical facilities in the name of the City; AND

The Airport Department is an enterprise agency, and receives a general fund subsidy. The
Airport rents 58 units including Hangars (Small, Medium and Large), Bays and other spaces.
The Airport is a landlord. A landlord is the party agreeing to transfer possession and use of
the rental property, usually the owner (but may also include an agent or employee of the
owner, or a management company). The business or individual occupying space at the Airport
are tenants. A tenant is the party taking possession and use of the rental property from the
landlord under a lease: AND

The Airport has the supervision, management and control of all city properties and
equipment devoted to aviation activities, both as to supervision, maintenance and operation,
The department may make contracts or leases necessary to carry out the objectives and
purposes of the department, as provided with T-I-Iangers; AND

That such short term lease agreements shall require the lessee l) to comply with all applicable
laws, 2) to provide insurance and indemni?cation of the City of Detroit; AND

That separate approval by Detroit City Council for such short term lease agreements shall not
be required for each individual agreement, but that the Airport Director, or his designee, shall
have the authority granted by Detroit City Council through this resolution for a period of
eighteen (18) months from the approval date of this resolution to execute and approve such
agreements provided that Airport give Detroit City Council quarterly reports of such
agreements after the fact; and be it further Resolved

That all such short term lease agreements under this authority shall be approved as to form by

the Law Department under 7.5-206 of the Detroit City Code and that any revenue to be
received is certi?ed received by the Finance Department under 18-5-4 



June 24, 2019

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave.

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: REQUEST FOR APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO SHORT TERM LEASES FOR TEMPORARY
PROPERTY USE UP TO 30 DAYS AND UNDER $10,000.

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement Department is hereby requesting the authorization
of your Honorable Body to allow the Coleman A. Young Municipal Airport Department (?Airport?) to
enter into short term leases of Airport T-Hanger properties as requests for such are received, provided
that the term of said leases charge rent of less than $10,000 and include a lease term of up to 30 days.

The current terminal (built in 1966) is used for private, cargo, and corporate airplanes under the
Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) jurisdiction. The department
may make, with the approval of the City Council, all contracts or leases necessary to carry out the
objectives and purposes of the department, as provided in this section. These requests are
frequently received by the Airport with insuf?cient time to negotiate a short term lease

and seek the approval of your Honorable Body. In these instances, the City sometimes foregoes
certain revenue that it might otherwise realize.

With authority to execute and approve short term leases, Airport may better perform

its duty under Section 4-1-2 of the Detroit City Code ?to supervise, manage and control all city
properties and equipment devoted to aviation activities, both as to supervision, maintenance and
operation?, as well as to better capitalize on revenue from temporary use of the City?s T-Hangers.
The Airport shall work with the Law Department to ensure that all short term leases under this
authority are approved as to form and work with the Finance Department to certify that such
revenue has been received by the City. The Airport Director or his designated staff will provide a
quarterly report of all short term leases to the City Council.

We respectfully request your approval and grant of authority to the Airport Department to enter
into such short term leases pursuant to the above referenced conditions and for the bene?t of the
City of Detroit by adopting the attached resolution. We ask that this authority remain in full force
and effect for a period of 18 months to allow the Airport time to codify this policy into

the appropriate section of the Detroit City Code.

Respectfully sub ed
4-.-


Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

RESOLVED,

RESOLVED,

RESOLUTION

 

The Coleman A. Young Municipal Airport Department (?Airport?) was established to
exercised and perform in accordance with the general laws of the United States and
this state, the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration and the
state department of aeronautics to acquire and hold airport, heliports, seaplane bases,
landing ?elds or sites and any other aeronautical facilities in the name of the City;
AND

The Airport Department is an enterprise agency, and receives a general fund subsidy
The Airport rents 58 units including Hangars (Small, Medium and Large), Bays and
other. The Airport is a landlord. A landlord is the party agreeing to transfer possession
and use of the rental property, usually the owner (but may also include an agent or
employee of the owner, or a management company). The business or individual
occupying space at the Airport are tenants. A tenant is the party taking possession and
use of the rental property from the landlord under a lease: AND

The Airport has the supervision, management and control of all city properties and
equipment devoted to aviation activities, both as to supervision, maintenance and
operation, The department may make contracts or leases necessary to carry out the
obj ectives and purposes of the department, as provided with T-Hangers; AND

That such short term leases agreements shall require the lessee 1) to comply with all
applicable laws, 2) to provide insurance and indemni?cation of the City of Detroit;
AND

That separate approval by Detroit City Council for such short term lease agreements
shall not be required for each individual agreement, but that the Airport Director, or
his designee, shall have the authority granted by Detroit City Council through this
resolution for a period of eighteen (18) months from the approval date of this resolution
to execute and approve such agreements provided that Airport give Detroit City
Council quarterly reports of such agreements after the fact; and be it further

That all such short term lease agreements under this authority shall be approved as to
form by the Law Department under 7.5-206 of the Detroit City Code and that any
revenue to be received is certi?ed received by the Finance Department under 18-5-4



MEMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Janee? Ayers, Vice Chair
Council Member At Large

DATE: June 24, 2019

RE: Flip the Script Resolution

 

Please draft a resolution supporting the Michigan State Legislature reinstating $1.5 million
dollars in funding to the Goodwill Flip the S?ript Program.

Thank you for your time and effort,

Janee? Ayers

Detroit City Council

cc: Colleagues
City Clerk

 

Qilitp at ?etrutt

 

 

CITYCOUNCIL

MARY SHEFFIELD
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

0 A 

TO: Mr. Donald Rencher, Director Housing Revitalization Department

THROUGH: Council Member James Tate, Chair, Planning a nomic Development Committee

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore Mary Shef?e

DATE: June 26, 2019

RE: NEZ New Rehab Certi?cate Project List

 

Please provide a list of all projects that have received NEZ new and rehab certi?cates from 2013 to the
present.

Thank you.

Cc: Honorable Colleagues
Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


