TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE


?m

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

 

ILMEM- 
A
.4 A 
cou 

if?. 
I

DETROIT 

(Delta Sigma ?11ieta Sorority, Inc, @etroit ?fumnae Cliapter
80th Anniversary

(in January 13, 1913. Delta Sigma Theta Soronly. Incorygirated was founded on the campus of Inward University by 
collegiate women. The Founders. Osceola McCarthy Adams. Marguerite Young Alexander. Winona [Lirgile AIL-sander, litliel Cuff
Black, Hertha Pitts Campbell, Zephyr Chisolm Carter. Brown Colt-man. Jessie I'vlctimre Dem. Frederica Chase Doild. Myra
Davis llemmings, Olive C. Jones, Jimmie Bugg Middleton, Pauline (llierrlorfer Minor. 'l'urley Naomi Sewcll
Richardson, Mamie Reddy Rose, l?lliza Pearl Shippen, lilorence Letcher Toms, lithel Carr Watson, Wertie Blackwell Weaver, Madree
Penn White and Edith Mott Young envisioned Delta Sigma Theta to become an organization dedicated to promoting academic
excellence and providing assistance to those in need. l"or one hundred and six years, Delta Sigma Theta continues to flourish to
uphold the legacy of its founders by providing dedicated service and a global voice and vision to the struggle of members of the
African Diaspora. With more than 300,000 members in 940 undergraduate and alumnae chapters across the world, members of
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. have distinguished themselves globally as leaders, public servants and champions of human rights;
and,

On January 24, 1924, the vision and mission of Delta Sigma Theta led to the chartering of Tau Chapter a combined chapter of
collegiate and graduates and the ?rst Delta chapter in the city of Detroit. I Iowever, on May 13, 1939, twenty-nine members: Mamie
Alexander, Gladys Barthwell, Marguerite M. Bleach, l-lleanor Boykin (Jones), Marian Carter, l'lthel Childs (Baker), Colden,
lrene Duncan Wise, Hortense liears, Maxine Pears (Worsham), Bertha Lantoin, Victoria McCall (Davenport), Ruby McClendon
(Willis), Loretta McKee (Briscoe), Lucy B. Mary Morris, Sue Morton. lilizabeth Morton, Wilamette Mosby, II'rances Owens,
1".rnestine Postles, lister Randall (LaMarr), Ruth Routt (King), M. Louise Sims, Margret Smith, Zelma Sykes (Sparkles), Marian 'l'aylor,
Helen Thomas and l-Zdith Watson (Bland) chartered the Alpha Pi Sigma Chapter to service graduate members of the Sorority.
Renamed the Detroit Alumnae Chapter in 1958, the Chapter has provided exemplary service to the metropolitan Detroit area for
eighty years and is home to one of the largest chapters in Delta with more than 800 active and financial members; and,

In its eighty year history. the Detroit Alumnae Chapter has displayed a solid commitment to sisterhood, scholarship and service via
the Sorority?s liive Point Thrust - liconomic Development, [Educational Development, International Awareness and Involvement,
Physical and Mental Health and Political Awareness and Involvement. Locally, the Detroit Alumnae Chapter has sponsored
numerous activities supporting youth, seniors, veterans, returning citizens and other vulnerable populations including the Dr. Betty
Shabazz Delta Academy, Delta (ll'iMS, lixpungement and Second Chance l"air, Children?s Business Fair, Community
Shred Day, College Planning 101, Dementia Caregivers Bootcamp, Voter liducation l-"orums and many others. In addition, the
Chapter serves as the catalyst for the Delta Service Through Detroit Foundation, Inc. (DS'l'li'l), Minerva Education and
Development Foundation (MliDli?) and Delta Manor and has established collaborative initiatives with other local community groups
and governmental agencies such as IA Center, Citizen Detroit, AARP, City of Detroit, United Negro College l"und and Wayne
State University; and,

The Detroit Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated is the recipient of numerous accolades due to its
continuous commitment to build on a legacy of excellence to the City, the Sorority and the global community. In celebration of the
Sorority?s Centennial Celebration, the Chapter proudly hosted the National Torch Tour in Detroit and launched an 18 month exhibit
at the Charles ll. Wright Museum of African American History. In addition, the Chapter has received numerous awards from the
Sorority (nationally and regionally), the State of Michigan, the City of Detroit, the NAACP (Ida B. Wells Social Justice Award) and
was named Best Sorority in the Best in Black Detroit Award for 2017 and 2018. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That on this day, June 8, 2019, Council Member James Tate Jr. and the entire Detroit City Council do hereby acknowledge and
congratulate the Detroit Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. on 80 years of outstanding service to the metropolitan
Detroit area. May you continue your dedication to improving the lives of Detroiters and the surrounding community through
scholarship, service and sisterhood.

 

 

 

COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

 

DAE

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Castaneda-Lopez
6/13/2019

 

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

In Memoriam
Joseph Christopher, Jr.
March 16, 1923 June 3, 2019

Joseph Christopher, Jr was born March 16, 1923 in Vicksburg, Mississippi. He served his
country in the United States Army during World War II from l944 -l947, serving honorably in
Scotland, England, Germany, France, Holland and Czechoslovakia. He received an honorable
discharge on February 7, 1947 and a World War [1 Victory Medal and Army of Occupation
Metal; and

Mr. Christopher was met on his return home to Mississippi with disrespect, violence and hate
by police officers in Mississippi. He was badly beaten, thrown into jail and provided no medical
attention. Days later his father located him and provided the medical attention he needed. It
took him several months before he recovered from this heinous crime; and

His spirit was not broken. Mr. Christopher came to Detroit and made it his lifelong home. He
became a member of First Baptist Church and made a home on Solvay Street in Delray with his
wife, Earline Cook Christopher; and

Mr. Christopher is a 40 year Master Carpenter, whose father taught his sons, who then taught
their sons. He worked in factories but also worked with his brother Elijah who opened a garage
and car wash in Delray. He was accepted into an apprentice program, became a Master
Carpenter, and practiced until he retired. He built homes in Ecorse, River Rouge, Southwest
Detroit and Southfield; and

Joseph Christopher, Jr. made his transition on June 3, 2019. He leaves to celebrate his life and
works his Wife, Earline Cook Christopher; Daughter, Valarie Hunter Williams; Step?children,
Geralyn, Barbara and Rickey Cook; Brother, Elijah Christopher, Sr.; Sister, Emma Nash: and a
host of grandchildren, nephews, nieces, family, friends and community. THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez and the entire Detroit City Council extend our sincere
sympathy to the family, friends and community of the late Joseph Christopher, Jr. We give
tribute to a man who did not let the trials of life turn him but let his faith in God order his steps.
Thank you Joseph Christopher, Jr for your commitment to our country and city. We
commemorate your life on this day, June 14, 2019. Rest in Heavenly Peace.

 

06w

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

. I 

June 14- 2019
DATE

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Castar?ieda-L?pez
6/13/2019

 

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

 

%a?mnm& CRe/sa/W

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

In Memoriam

December 14, 1934 June 3, 2019

Dora Jean Jackson was born December 14, 1934 in El Dorado, Arkansas to Deacon Charlie Wade and
Mildred Kilgore. Her family also included two sisters, Lodine Jones and Janie Faye Wade; and

Dora married Richard Jackson. This union produced ?ve children. She cared for and loved her beautiful
children, Sharon, Aquin, LaTanya, Regina, Alexander and the Brown family. Dora was a mother and
care giver to many. There was no shortage of people she wanted to have the best life had to offer; and

Dora took an active role in her west side community. She was active in local block clubs and was
President Emeritus of Midwest Civic Council of Block Clubs. She won numerous awards in
recognition of her community commitment including the Spirit of Detroit from Detroit City Council and a
Recognition Award from the Detroit Police Department and

Dora was famous among her loved ones for many things, road trips in her family van to family reunions
or to her home town of El Dorado, Arkansas and block club parties on the block or at local parks. She also
encouraged her extended family to help out during Thanksgiving and Christmas functions for the Midwest
Civic Council and many other charitable community organization. Above all, just being as helpful as she
could be when needed the most; and

Dora Jean Jackson transitioned to her eternal resting place on June 3, 2019. Her life and journey will live
on in four children, LaTonya, Aquin, Sharon and Alexander; eleven grandchildren, Rock, QuinTanya,
Donille, RayShawn, LaSheina, LaDora, Rowna, La Chante, Roemel, Brendan, Ahmed: seventeen great
grandchildren; three great-great grandchildren; and, her canine companion Pepper. She was preceded in
death by her mother Mildred, husband Richard, father Charlie, sisters Faye and Lodine and her daughter
Regina. She will be missed by a host of family, friends and connections she made throughout her full and
lively life time. THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and the entire Detroit City Council extend our sincere

sympathy to the family, friends and community of the late Dora Jean Jackson. Our thoughts and prayers
are with you as you cherish her memory and continue to build her legacy.



 

. COUNCIL a?oem

A a -
Wig COUNCIL gran 

 

MEMBER

UNC

 

LME

June 14, 20
DATE

