WPcWe?s
(0/25/10)

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

 OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT

 

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED [1 MIA CANCELED

 

 

Petition 869 Event Name:28th Annual Mack Alive Parade Rally
August 24, 2019
Mack Avenue

Organization Name: MaCk Alive
Street Address: 3746 Fischer Detroit, MI 48214

 

Event Date 

 

Street Closure:

 

 

 

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk?s Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

 

Walkathon Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance Run/Marathon

El Bike Race I: Religious Ceremony I: Political Ceremony Festival

El Filming Parade Sports/Recreation Rally/Demonstration
I: Fireworks Convention/Conference Other:

24-Hour Liquor License

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)
28th Annual Mack Alive Parade Rally starting/ending at Mack St. Jean from 10:00am - 4:00pm.

 

ALL permits and license requirements must be fulfilled for an approval status 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

 

DPD Assisted Event
DPD 

 

No Permits Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'1
EMS
DPD Assisted Event; No ROW Permit
DPW Cl Required
Health Dept. No Permits Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
No Barricades Required
TED 
No Jurisdiction
Recreation I:
No Permits Required
Safety

 

Bus. License



No Permits Required

 

EDD

All Necessary permits must be obtained

 

 

 

 

Nazi: prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.
. . No Jurisdiction
MunICIpal
Parking El
DDOT Low Impact on Buses

 



 



 



 

 

OFFICE
Signature: ?6 L4MW
Date: 240?}

 

Qtitp of. $etrnit

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK :Cavien west
City Clerk Deputyc?y Clerk/drief a 1' Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, May 14, 2019

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT

869 Mack Alive, request to hold "28th Annual Mack Alive Parade Rally at
Mack/St. Jean 7200 Mack on 8/24/19 at 10AM- 4PM, Set-up on 8/24/19
from 6AM - 10AM, Tear down following event, Street closure on Mack Ave.
from St. Jean to Grand Blvd.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

#1 

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning, effective conununication and teamwork.
The City of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the Special Events Guidelines; please print them
out for reference. Petitioners are required to complete the information below so that the City of
Detroit may gain a thorough understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be
completed and returned to the Special Events and Film Handling Office at least 60 days prior to
the first date of the event. If submitted later than 60 days prior, application is subject to denial.
Please type or print clearly and attach additional sheets and maps as needed.

Section 1- GENERAL 

 

 

 

7200 Mack

 

 

 

is this going to be an annual event? Yes No

   

Section 2- INFORMATION

Organization Name: aCk Alive

 

Organization Mailing Address; 3746 Fischer Detroit, MI 48214

 

Business Phone: 313-824-3900 Business Website: mackisa  ive.org

Applicant Name: Kim 

Bu Phone1313-824-3900 Emihkeepmackallve@yahoo.com

Event On-Site Contact Person:

._Na"1c: Kim 

 

 

Business Phonez313?824'3900 Cell Phone:3l3'6lo'6314 Email: kimregainsali?yahoo.com

 

Event Elements (check all that apply)

]Walkathon lCarnival/Circus ]Concertherformance
lRunlMarathon ]Bike Race ]Religious Ceremony

]Political Event 1 ]Festival ]Filming

Parade 1 ]Sporls/Recreation Rally/Demonstration

lConventionfConference ]Fireworks ]Other:

 

Projected Number or 
Please provide a brief description of your event:

This event will begin with a parade starting at Mack and St. Jean and processing down Mack to Genesis
Lutheran Church at Mack and E. Grand Blvd. where the rally will be held.

 

 

 

 

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be completed)?

 

 

Begin Set-up Date 08/24/2019 Time: Set-up Date:08/24/2019 Time:10:00a.m .
Event Start Date208/24/2019 Time:10:00a,mEvent End Date:08/24/2019 Time:4:00p.m.
Begin Tearing Down Date?S/Z 4/2019 Complete Tear Down Date208/24/2019

 

Lwal Times (If more than one day. give times for each day):

only for 1 day

 

 

Section 3- 

Location of Event: Mack Ave.

Facilities to be ust heck) Street I Sidewalk Park City
Facility

Please attach a copy of Port-a-John, Sanitation, and Emergency Medical Agreements as well as a site plan which illustrates the
anticipated layout of your event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid
-Location of merchandising booths
Location of food booths
Location of garbage rewptacles
Location of beverage booths
-Location of sound stages
-Location ofhand washing sinks
-Location of portable restrooms

-Location of ?re lane

-Proposed route for walk/run
-Location of tents and canopies
-Sketcl1 of street closure

-Location ol?bleachers

-Location ol'press area

-Sketch of proposed light pole banners

You will be prompted to upload these attachments upon submitting this form

 

Section 4- 

Describe the entertainment for this year?s event:

live bands, various singing groups

Willa sound system be used? . Yes No
If yes. what type of sound system?

Describe speci?c power needs for entenainment and/or music:

Generator

How many generators will be used? 1

How will the generators be fueled??
gas

 

 

Name of vendor providing generators:

tP .- - - 
ontac erson The DJ. branS own generator

Address: Phone:

Cit .vatulei?Zip

Section 5- SALES 

 

Will there be advanced ticket sales? Yes . No
If ves. please describe:

 

Will there be on-site ticket sales? El Yes . No
If yes. list price(s):
Will there be vending or sales? . Yes No

If yes. check all that apply:
1 Food Merchandise 1 Non-Alcoholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages

Ind iezile type of items to he sold:

jewelry clothing

 

Section (1- PUBLIC SAFETY 

 

Name of Private Security Com pan yN ne
Contact Person:

Address: Phone:

.

itvl?Sluteu'Zip;

 

Number of Private Securitv Personnel l-lired Shit]:

 

 

Are the private security personnel (check all that apply):

}Licensed ]Am1ed ]Bonded

 

How will you advise attendees of parking options?
There be parking along the street

 

 

Set-lion 7- lMl?Af'l? INFORMATION

   

How will your event impact the surrounding community pedestrian traf?c, sound carryover, safety)?
pedestrian, traf?c bus route

Have local neighborhood groupsfbusinesses approved your event? . Yes No

Indicate ii you have ti 'will lake to notify them of your event:
?yers will'he istributeci

 

Section 8- SET-UP

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event Structure

How Many? Size/Height
Booth 0
Tents (enclosed on 3 sides) 0
Canopy (open on all sides) 5 20 30
Staging/Scaffolding 1 4 8 16
Bleachers 0

 

Section 9- (fOMl?Lli?l?li ALL Al'l?L 

Emergency medical services?

Contact Person: None

 

Add Hess:

City/S tatefZip:

 

Name of company providing tmt?t-a?ulumsotty Potties

Contact Person: 5 cotty Potties

Address:P.O. Box 530845 Phone:734-421-1400
City/StateJZiszivonia, MI 48153

Name of private catering company: D.T. Catering

Contact Person:Dal5y Tmsley

Addrm:2244 Phone-:313-461-3330

Cily/StutefZipt Detroit, MI 48214

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible Streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day. date. and time of requested closing and reopening.
Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval. Barricades are not available from the City of Detroit.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME: Mack Ave.

Jean THE. Grand Blvd.

CLOSURE DATES: 08/24/2019 BEOTIME: 10a.m. END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 08! 24" 2019 TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: To:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TD: 7
CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN TIM E:
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: 

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 7 TIME:

STREET NAME:

FROM: TO:

CLOSURE DATES: BEG TIME: EN TIM 
REOPEN DATE: TIME:

 

10

 

 

 

PLEASE ADD IMPORTANT INFORMATION BELOW AND ATTACH A COPY OF THE FOLLOWING:
1) CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
2) EMERGENCY MEDICAL AGREEMENT
3) SANITATION AGREEMENT
4) PORT-A-JOHN AGREEMENT

5) COMMUNITY COMMUNICATION

11

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AF ADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief that I have read, understood and agreed to
abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed Special Event, and I
understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulations established
by the Mayor or the Mayor?s designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other
requirements of the City, County, State, and Federal Government and any other
applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to abide by
these rules, and further certify that I, on behalf of the Event agree to be ?nancially
responsible for any costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to
the Citypf Detroit.

M50 04/24/2019

 

Signature of Applicant Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by
the Special Events Management Team, you will be notified of any requirements, fees, and/or
restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indenmify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its
agencies, officers, elected of?cials, appointed of?cials and employees) harmless from
and against injury, loss, damage or liability (or any claims in respect of the
foregoing including claims for personal injury and death, damage to property, and
reasonable outside attorney?s fees) arising from activities associated with this permit,
except to the extent attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of
the City.

Appliczutt affirms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and
Indemnification provision and agrees to the terms expressed therein.

28th Annual Mack Alive Parade Rally

 

 

 

Event Name: Event
Event Organizer:
Kim Ali
Mr: I
Applicant Signature:

 

Date. 04/24/2019

 

12

 

 

?lleOanlN 


ALEHVS SSNIGTIHE HELNEO SSEINISHS

38H 
NOISIAICI Alli) SHOAVIN

ammo-nos EIHJ. 01 03333533

29419
puma 3 01 amp '13 may 'adV 
uo 31719010139413 ?Juana Buy/10110}
419315 W170i V9 ?1046 
"0 ?I/Vcl? 119 6l/?Z/8 ?0
1190141 0024 as) war ?Imam 119 "((111721
QPWUJ 941W JPUW 11182..

[91011 0113212192?: ?aayV 3101714] [0 uogmad 698

698 

7?

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
June 21, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002066 100% Major Street Bond Fund To Provide Construction Services for the
Riopelle Streetscape Project. Contractor: Maj or Cement Co Location:
15347 Dale, Detroit, MI 48223 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through July 1, 2021 Total Contract Amount: 1,541,614.50.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002066 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 21, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

Yl

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

June 21, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002065 100% Major Street Bond Fund To Provide Construction Services for the
Bagley Streetscape Project. Contractor: Major Cement Co Location:
15347 Dale, Detroit, MI 48223 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through July 1, 2021 Total Contract Amount: 2,348,246.41.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002065 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 21, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

Y1,

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

June 21,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

2918966 100% Federal Funding AMEND 3 To Provide Consulting Services for
the Livernois/McNichols Revitalization Project. Contractor: Spackman
Mossop Michaels Location: 1824 Sophie Wright PL, New Orleans, LA,
70130 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through December
31, 2020 Contract Increase: $172,500.00 Total Contract Amount:
$1,079,720.90. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 2918966 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 21, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

June 21,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002071 100% City Funding To Provide Automotive Lift Inspections, Preventive
Maintenance, Repairs and Parts for Hoists for the Department of
Transportation for Four (4) Years with No Renewal Options Contractor:
Allied Inc. Location: 240 Metty Dr., Suite D, Ann Arbor, MI 48103 
Contract Period: July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2023 Total Contract
Amount: $244,838.80. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002071 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated June 21, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

   

 

June 21,2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Amendment To Chapter 9, Buildings and Building Regulations, Article I, Detroit
Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements for Rental Property, by adding
Subdivision C., Short Term Rentals, to include Sections 9-1-100.l through 9-1-100.15

Honorable City Council:

The Law Department has prepared an ordinance proposed by Council Member Jane?
Ayers, which addresses short term rental activity within the City of Detroit. This local law will be
amending Chapter 9 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Buildings and Building Regulations, Article 1,
Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements for Rental Property, by adding
Subdivision C., Short Term Rentals, to include Sections 9-1-100.1 through 9-1-100.15, to de?ne
terms; to create a registration process; to require submission of an af?davit and an application fee;
to set criteria for the application and renewal process; to establish general provisions for operations
of short term rentals; to establish requirements for short term rental platforms; to set forth an
appeals process and to provide for violations for failure to comply with the requirements set forth
in this ordinance. A copy of the ordinance, which has been approved as to form, is attached for
your consideration.

I look forward to discussing this important legislation with this Honorable Body.

Respectfully Submitted} .
0?0" Vania/UM

Mary Parisien

Assistant Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit Law Department
Municipal Section

 A 
AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 9 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Buildings and
Building Regulations, Article I, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements
for Rental Pr0perty, by adding Subdivision C., Short Term Rentals, to include Sections 9-1-100.1
through to de?ne terms; to create a registration process; to require submission of an
af?davit and an application fee; to set criteria for the application process; to establish general
provisions for operations of short term rentals; to establish requirements for short term rental

platforms; to provide for enforcement for failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this

ordinance, and to provide an appeal process.

Al 8-02597 i 06/21/2019

COUNCIILMEMBER
AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 9 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Buildings and
Building Regulations, Article I, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements
for Rental Property, by adding Subdivision C., Short Term Rentals, to include Sections 9-1-100.l
through 9-1-100.15, to de?ne terms; to create a registration process; to require submission of an
af?davit and an application fee; to set criteria for the application process; to establish general
provisions for operations of short term rentals; to establish requirements for short term rental
platforms; to provide for enforcement for failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this
ordinance, and to provide an appeal process.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Chapter 9 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Buildings and Building Regulations;
Article I, Detroit Property Maintenance Code, Division 3, Requirements for Rental Property,
Subdivision C, Short Term Rentals, by adding Sections 9-1-100.l through 9-1-100.15, to read as
follows:
CHAPTER 9. BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. DETROIT PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
DIVISION 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR RENTAL PROPERTY
Subdivision C. Short Term Rentals
Sec. 94-100.] Purpose.
To protect the public peace. health, safetv and welfare bv establishing a procedure for the
short term rental of private residences of Citv residents: to preserve the residential character of
residential districts: to preserve the value nl?propertv in residential districts: and preserve the peace.

good order. and welfare of the inhabitants of and visitors to the Citv.

06/21/2019

Sec. 9-1-1002. De?nitions.

For the purposes of this article. the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them 13v this Section:

Apartment means a one-familv living space having one or more rooms located Within a
building. and containing a kitchen equipped with a sink and a bathroom equipped with a bathtub
or shower. a lavatory. and a toilet or water closet as set forth in Section 9-1-3 ot?this Code.

Applicant means a person who owns and has lawful possession of a propertv that is
applving [in a short term rental registration.

Bedroom means a room that complies with the requirements set forth in Section 9-1-404
of this Code.

Blight violation means anV unlawful act. or any omission or failure to act. which is
designated bV this Code as a blight violation pursuant to Section 41(2) of the Michigan Home Rule
CitV Act. being MCL 

Calendar rim-s means everv dav shown on the calendar including Saturdavs. Sundavs. and
State and Federal holidays.

Compensation means monev or other consideration given in return for occupancy.
possession or use ofthe residence.

means the Citv of Detroit Buildings. Safety Engineering. and Environmental
Department.

Dwelling unit means a single unit providing complete. independent living facilities
occupied. or intended to be occupied. in whole or in part by one or more persons. including
permanent space and provisions for living. cooking. eating. sanitation. and sleeping as set forth in

Section 9-1-3 of this Code.

AIS-02597 06/21/2019

Guest means anv person who exercises use of the residence for lodging. or
accommodations in a short term rental by compensation or any consideration.

Host means a person that Facilitates the booking: ol? a short term rental propertv and for
purposes of this Subdivision is the person who owns the propertv and has legal possession of the
propertv. A host must be an individual and. may not be a business entity. propertv management
companv or organization.

Hosting platform means an entitv that facilitates short term rentals through advertising. or
anv other means and from which the platform derives revenues. including. but not limited to
booking fees from providing or maintainingtl the marketplace.

Linear measurement means measurement between two short term rentals, measured along
the centerline of the roadwav abutting the lots on which the short term rentals are located. at points
perpendicular to the outermost portions ofthe short term rentals closest to each other. This spacina
requirement applies regardless of the side of the roadwav on which the short term rental is located.

Local contact person means the owner or a person designated bv the owner. who is
available 24 hours per dav, seven davs per week for the purpose of:

(1) Being able to phvsicallv respond. as necessary. within 45 minutes of
noti?cation ol?a complaint regarding the condition. operation. or conduct ol?
occupants of the short term rental propertv: and

(2) Taking remedial action necessary to resolve anv such complaints.

Owner means the person that holds legal or equitable title to the propertv used as a short
term rental and resides on the premises at least nine months of the calendar vear. An owner must

be an individual and mav not be a business entity. property management companv or organization.

06/21/2019

Radial measurement means the measurement between two properties. measured as the
shortest straight line connecting such properties. drawn irrespective of intervening property lines.
?ghts-of-way. or natural or built environment.

Rent or Rem?al means to permit, provide for. or offer possession or occupancy of a
residential property to a guest for compensation or any consideration.

Roaming tam means a room rented as sleeping and living quarters. but without cooking
facilities and with or Without an individual bathroom. In a suite of rooms Without cooking facilities.
each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one rooming unit for
purposes of this Subdivision.

Short Term Rental means any rental of a dwelling unit. or rooming unit in exchange for
compensation or other consideration. as residential accommodations For at least one night. but no
more than 90 cumulative days ol?the year.

Sec. 9-1-1003. Residency requirement.

Any property used as a short term rental located in the City must be the owner's principal
residence.

Sec. 9-1 100.4. Registration required.

Any dwelling unit or morning unit used as a short term rental shall be registered
with the Department. Use ol?any unregistered property as a short term rental is prohibited.

A complete registration application must he submitted to the Department beginning
January 15?" through January 315?.

Registration of a property to be used as a short term rental shall be made by the

owner of the property. on an application proyidecl by the Department, and shall include the

l'ol lowing:

06/21/2019

(3)



Name, address. telephone number and email address of the host for the propertL

Prool?ot? Ownership and Residencv.

 

a. Ownership shall be established bv the recorded deed or land contract for the
property.
h. Residencv shall be established bv at least two of the followingI documents.

 

which must list the host?s name and address of the short term rental property

on the document:

 

 

1. The host?s motor vehicle registration:
2. A valid driver?s license or state identi?cation card:
3. Current property tax documents:

 

4. Utility hill:

5. Voter registration card: or

6. W-2 mailing.
Total number of bedrooms in the dwelling unit to be available for rent.
Total number of parking; spaces provided for the dwellina unit or rooming: unit. If
the applicant lives in an area that requires a permit or pass for parking. they must
indicate how manv permits or passes are available for guests and visitors.
Maximum number of guests that each dwelling or rooming unit can accommodate.
Name and telephone number ol? the 24-hour local contact person for the propenv.

A short term rental registration shall not be transferred and is valid onlv at

the short term rental propertv address registered with the Citv.

tel

A short term rental propertv shall not he located on a lot that is within lUUll l?eetr

measured linearlv. ol?a lot on which another short term rental propertv is located. unless permission



06/21/2019

given bv the Department. The Department is authorized to permit short term rental properties

within 1 000 linear feet of one another. however the Department may not extend its discretion more

than 10% of the 1000 linear foot requirement. and all other criteria listed in this Subdivision must

be met by the applicant.

Sec. 9-1-100.5. Submittal of af?davit.

In addition to the requirements contained in Section 9-1-100.4 of this subdivision- the host

shall submit an affidavit. on a provided hv the Department. certifying the followine:

Q)
(2)





AIS-02597

That the propertv used as a short term rental is the host?s principal residence;

That the host is an individual and not a business entitv. propertv management
companv or an oreanizatitlr;

That a working smoke alarm is installed in each bedroom;

That a working carbon monoxide detector is installed in everv dwelling unit:

That a working ?re extinguisher is installed on each ?oor:

That the host will inspect the devices identi?ed in Subsections and (4) of
this section at least every 90 days to ensure they are unexpired and in proper
working order;

That the host has obtained and provided a copv of liabilitv insurance to cover the
short term rental use:

That the propertv is not currentlv in violation of this Code or am! state or federal
housing laws and is in habitable condition:

That host is not in arrears or in default to the Citv. including anv unpaid, outstanding

and/or delinquent propertv tax. income tax. special assessments and/or blight ?nes:

06/21/2019



(10) That the host will make the dwelling unit or rooming unit available to the City for
inspection upon request from the Department;
a. Inspections mav be conducted if there have been complaints regarding the

property; or if the Department has a reasonable basis to request an

ins eetion.

 

 

b. If the host: refuses to allow inspections by the Citv. the host?s short term
rental property mav be removed from the Citvls registration list.
9. If a short term rental propertv is removed from the Citv?s registration list.

 

the Department shall provide written notice to the host thirtv davs prior to
removal.

That. if the registration is approved and issued. the host shall ?le a written
acknowledgement and agreement that the host will assume all risk and indemnity.
defend and hold the Citv harmless concerning the City's approval of the
registration. the operation and maintenance of the short term rental property. and
anv other matter relating to the offering or use of the short term rental propertv;
and,

(12) Such other information as the Citv deems appropriate.

Sec. 9-1-100.6. Fee.

A non-refundable $250.00 fee shall be required for the initial registration o'l'a short

term rental property under this Subdivision.

(bl A non-refundable $125.00 fee shall be charged to each applicant renewing

registration of the short term rental property.

A18-02597 06/21/2019

to) Registration for a short term rental is valid for one year beginning February 1St of
each year and expiring January 31?. Upon the expiration of a registered propertys each applicant

shall pay the annual fee to renew the registration.

shall be terminated the

 

'd The short term rental re tistration ol? the

   

transfer or conveyance of the property.

The fee shall be published on the City's website.
See. Renewal of an application.

A short-term rental registration must be renewed every year in accordance with this
Subdivision.

Complete applications include the application. af?davit and application fee. and
must be submitted beginning anuarv 15th through Januarv 3 1St to the Department.

to] A host must cancel or deactivate any online listings for the short term rental
propertv effective the dav the registration expires. Honoring any pending reservations. and
advertising the property as a short term rental without a registration is a violation of this
Subdivision.

Upon approval ot?a renewal application. a host shall be required to provide the local
contact person?s information to neighbors within 300 radial feet of the short term rental property
and submit an affidavit in accordance with this Section and (2). to the City
indicating they have done so.

See. 9-1-1003. Approval of application.

Suhiect to the limitations in Section 9-1-1004. the Department shall approve an
application for registration of a short term rental property if the applicant has completed the

following requirements:

Al8-02597 06/21/2019

Submitted a timely and complete application and af?davit:

Paid the reaistration fee; and.

(3) Made improvements to the residence consistent with the application. and is

prepared to operate the residence as a short term rental in compliance with this
9%

The Department shall have the discretion to denV anV application that does not meet
the requirements of this Subdivision or anv other applicable law. rule or regulation. or an
application that contains anv false or incomplete information.

(cl An annual reaistration shall be filed with the Citv and. if approved. the Department
will place the address on an. online reaistrv made available to the public and a Certi?cate of
Registration shall be provided to the applicant bv the Department.

The Department shall provide a list ol? the short term rental properties registered
with the Citv to the Detroit Police Department.

Sec. 9-1-1003. General requirements at" a short term rental.

The requirements of this Subdivision shall applv to all residential properties in the
Citv. but shall not applv to principal transient acconunodations listed in Chapter 44. Public
cconunon?otimrs. of this Code.

A host mayr not rent all or a portion of the short term rental propertv to more than
one group of attests. under more than one reservation. at a given time.

All lodaini.l is to be exclusivelv within the dwelling unit and not in a recreational
vehicle. camper. narape apartment. or tent.

ttl} A short term rental propertv mav not be used bv more than ten people at one time.

unless a stricter limit applies pursuant to state or local laws.

AIS-02597 06/21/2019

The host shall not rent the unit for more than 00 cumulative clavs of the calendar

ear.

The host shall provide to all guests in an electronic form. and post in a conspicuous
place in the short term rental propertv. the Certi?cate of Registration provided hv the Citv For that
short term rental property.

(9.) Within thirtv davs of approval of the application. the host shall:

(1) Using a form provided bv the Citv. notifv neighborinrI dwelling units within 300
radial feet of the short term rental prooertv that the propertv is registered as a short
term rental with the Citv and provide the neiehbor with the local contact person?s
telephone number: for ntulti-familv dwelling units used as a short term rental. the
local contact person?s information shall be given to the propertv manager: and.

Submit the form to the Department and confirm bv affidavit that such noti?cation
has been provided.

Utilization of propertv as a short term rental shall not adverselv affect the

development- character. and eniovment ol?the surrounding property.

The host or guest oecupving the property shall provide an unexpired Certi?cate of
Registration upon request of anv inquiring neighborhood police of?cer or CitV aaent and shall
respond to reasonable inquiries hv the neighborhood police of?cer. or Citv agent. regarding the
lawful use of the short term rental propertv.

Sec. 9-1-100.10. Guest regulations.

The use of a short term rental propertv shall not generate noise. vibration, glare.

odors. or other effects that unreasonahlv interfere with anv person?s enjoyment of his or her

residence.

10
A18-02597 06/21/2019

Guests of guests shall be allowed onlv between the hours of 8:00 a.1n. and 12:00

to) Guests shall be noti?ed bv the host. that excessive noise is prohibited as speci?ed
under Chapter 36 ot'this Code and such violators shall be subiect to ?nes and penalties as set forth
in Section of this subdivision.

Sec. Local contacts.

ta] A short term rental propertv host must identifv an individual or individuals to serve
as a local contact and respond to situations. ifthe host is not on the premises.

A local contact person designated under Subsection of this section must be
phvsicallv available to respond within 45 minutes after being noti?ed of an emergencv bv a guest
of the short term rental propertv. bv a Citv of Detroit emplovee. or bv an individual entitled to
notice of the contact information.

If there is a change related to a local contact person- the host of the short term rental
must provide undated or new information to the Department and neighbors within 300 radial feet
of the short term rental propertv. in writing within three business davs.

The host shall provide guests the local contact information. including a phone
number of the local contact with responsibilitv to take action to resolve anv complaints regarding,
the condition. operation or maintenance ofthe short term rental propertv.

Sec. 9-1-100.12. Hosting platform requirements.

A hosting platl?brm shall activelv prevent. remove. and cancel anv illegal listings

and bookings of short term rentals including:

(1) Where a listing has been offered without a CitV of Detroit Certi?cate of

Regi stration;

11
06/21/2019

host who has more than one listing: in the City. or

(3) For a short term rental that exceeds 90 cumulative days in a calendar vear.

A hostina platform shall provide to the Department, within 45 davs of the 
date of this ordinance. contact information for an emplovce or representative that will respond to
requests for information or veri?cation of Violations of this Subdivision. Hosting platforms
established after the effective date of this ordinance shall provide this information prior to
lacilitating, short term rentals in the Citv.

[cl In cases where listings appear on hostinn platforms that are not in compliance with
this ordinance. the hostina platform shall work with the Department to investigate and resolve anV
Violations. This includes contacting the alleged violator. tbrwardinn a notice of alleged violations.
and instruction them to applv for a short term rental reaistralion with the Ci?tv. If no response is
obtained within 14 business davs. or the short term rental registration has not been applied for
within 30 davs of the notice. the listing shall be removed from the hosting platform.

Provide a report to the Department on a basis in an electronic format.

stating:

(I The addresses ot?the homes registered. authorized. facilitated or advertised hv the

hosting platform;

 

 

 

(2) The total number of davs that the residential unit was occupied during.J the period:
m,

(3) The amount ot'total compensation for each stav.

tel If the hosting platform does not have the technical capability to collect such

information. it shall provide written documentation to the Citv within 7?5 davs of adoption of this

12
06/21/2019

ordinance that it' will provide an alternative method of compliance with the reportha requirements
of this Section.
See. 9-1-100J3. Vested rights.

Except in instances where constitutional principles or binding state or federal laws
otherwise provide. the provisions of this Subdivision and any ordinances or other measures
concerning short term rentals are not a grant of vested rights to continue as a short term rental
propertv indefinitelv. Anv short term rental property use and reaistration are subiect to provisions
ot'this Subdivision and other ordinances. resolutions. or other Citv measures concerning short term
rental properties that mayr be enacted or adopted at a later date. even though such ordinances.
resolutions. or other Citv measures mav change the terms, conditions, allowance. or duration for
short term rental propertv use, including but not limited to those that mav terminate some or all
short term rental property uses in the Citv.

Sec. 9-1-100.14. Violations; removal from the Citv?s short term rental registrv and
reapplieation.

In accordance with Section 41(3) of the ll?ehfean Home Rule Chit-let, heina MCL
117.41(4) and Sections and 8.5-2-1. of the 1984 Detroit Citv Code. a violation of this
Subdivision is deemed to he a hliaht violation.

{bl Anv person. includina. but not limited to: hosts. attests. owners. or hosting
platforms. violating anv section ofthis Subdivision mav be issued a blight violation notice pursuant
to Chapter 8.5 of the 1984 Detroit Citv Code for each dav that the violation continues.

to) A host may be removed from the Citv"s short term rental registry in the event that:

(I) An applicant provided false inlormation on the application:

13
AIS-02597 06/21/2019

(2) The shop term rental propertv is operated as a nuisance. with excessive noise. trash
or traf?c;

(3) The continuation ol? the short term rental prmnertv presents a threat to public health
or safety;

(4) The host violates regulations of this Code: or.

 

 

{it The host is found responsible for more than three blight violations for the short term
rental propertV in a calendar vear.
a short term rental propertv has been removed from the Citv?s registry. the

 

Department shall not approve a new application submitted from the same host for the same
propertv for six months following the removal. Alter the six months has expired. the host mav
applv for the short term rental propertv registration again.

Sec. Procedures for denial or removal of a short term rental registration.

The Department shall denv an application for a short term rental. including the
renewal of an existing registration. bV mailing a written notice to the applicant that states the basis
for the denial. applicant aggrieved bv the denial of a short term rental registration shall be
entitled to a hearing before the Director of the Department or a designated hearing of?cer. A
request for a hearing on the registration denial shall be in writing and addressed to the Director of
the Department. and must be made within 30 davs of the mailing of the notice of denial t0 the
applicant. A hearing pursuant to a timelv request shall he scheduled at the earliest possible date.
but not later than 30 davs after the receipt of the reouest for a hearing. The applicant and the
appropriate itv departments shall be notified of the hearing bv the Department at least seven davs

prior to the hearing. The hearing mav be adiourned onlv hv agreement of the parties or. upon cause

14
06/21/2019

shown. bv order of the Director or hearing officer. In the absence of a request for a hearing on the
denial of a short term rental registration, the denial shall be deemed ?nal.

Where the Department is presented with evidence that shows that cause exists to
denv or remove a short term rental registration pursuant this Subdivision. the Department shall
notifv the host. in writing. of its intent to deny or remove the registration and the basis therefor.
The letter from the Department shall direct the host to show cause at a hearing before the Director
of the Department or a designated hearinn officer. the registration should not be denied or
removed. The notice shall include the date. time and place for the show cause hearing. which shall
be scheduled not less than seven davs from the date of the mailina ot'the notice.

to} Where the Director of the Department makes a determination that there is an
immediate threat to the public health or safetv and welfare as a result of the continued operation
of a short term rental. the Director is authorized to immediatelv remove a registration. The host
shall be noti?ed of the removal hv the Department. bv mail and it? possible in person. with the
notice specifying the basis for the emeraencv removal of the registration. The Department shall
schedule a show cause hearing within seven davs. provided. that upon a written request to the
Department. the host shall be entitled to a hearing within 48 hours of the receipt of the written
notice in order to ascertain whether the emergencv removal of" the renistration shall continue.

tel} At a hearingF pursuant to this Section- the Department shall present relevant
evidence in support of the denial or removal of the short term rental registration. The applicant or
host shall be given an opportunity at the hearing to present relevant evidence in support of the

issuance or continuation of the registration.

15
06/21/2019



Where the host Fails to appear and show cause the registration should not be
denied or removed in accordance with this Section. the registration shall be removed effective at
the end of the City?s business day on which the show cause hearing was regularly scheduled.

A hearing that is held pursuant to this Section shall be conducted in accordamce
with the rules for conducting administrative hearings adopted in accordance with Section 1 1 of
the 2013 Detroit Cit?,J Charter.

Notice provided for in this Section shall be sent by both certi?ed mail. return receipt
requested. and reaular mail to the applicant or host at the address on record with the Department.

Secs. 9-1-100.16 -9-1-100. 30 Reserved.

16
06/21/2019

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in
accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective
on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day thereafter, in accordance with

Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

,4
?mm wavy/2&3;

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 

l7
AIS-02597 06/21/2019

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

 

June 20, 2019

Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center

Detroit MI 48226

RE: Proposed Ordinance to Amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places.

Honorable City Council:

The Law Department has prepared an amendment to Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit
City Code at the request of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department. The proposed ordinance
amends Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places,
Article Excavations, by amending Section 50-3?1, Permits Required, to clarify activities for
which an excavation permit is required and to designate the Department of Public Works as the
department responsible for the issuance of permits; Section 50-3-2, Cash Deposit, to add
certi?cation from a City of Detroit approved excavation safety coordinator as a prerequisite to the
issuance of excavation permits; and to make other technical corrections to the ordinance. The
objective of the ordinance is to improve excavation safety.

A copy of this ordinance, which has been approved as to form, is attached. I am available
to answer any questions that you may have concerning this proposed ordinance. Thank you for
your consideration.

Respectfully submitted,

af pf
Sharon Blackmon
Senior Assistant Corporation Counsel

SDB
Attachment


An ordinance to amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks, and Other
Public Places, Article Excavations, by amending Section 50-3-1, Permit Required, to clarify
activities for which an excavation permit is required and to designate the Department of Public
Works as the department responsible for issuance of permits; Section 50-3-2, Cash Deposit, to add
certi?cation from a City of Detroit approved excavation safety coordinator as a prerequisite to the

issuance of excavation permits; and to make other technical corrections.

10

11

12

13

BY COUNCILMEMBER

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks,
and Other Public Places, Article Excavations, by amending Section 50-3-1, Permit Required,
to clarify activities for which an excavation permit is required and to designate the Department of
Public Works as the department responsible for issuance of permits; Section 50-3-2, Cash Deposit,
to add certi?cation from a City of Detroit approved excavation safety coordinator as a prerequisite

to the issuance of excavation permits; and to make other technical corrections.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks, and Other
Public Spaces, Article Excavations, be amended by amending Sections 50-3-1, 50-3-2, 50-1-
4 and 50-1-5 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 50. STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC SPACES

ARTICLE EXCAVATIONS
Section 50?3-1. Permits required; de?ned term.
No person Swim?I'M mayr excavate any pavement, sidewalk or crosswalk or dig

any hole, ditch, drain or sewer in any street, alley or any public square without ?rst obtaining a

permit from the Director of WW the Department of Public

Works.

 

For purposes of this article. excavate shall include moving, removing. or otherwise

disulacina earth, rock or other material below existing surface grade with power tools or newer

10

ll

12

equipment. including. but not limited to. grading. trenching. tiling. digging. drilling. boring.
angering, tunneling. scraping. cable or pipe plowing. pile driving; and wrecking. raging. rending.
moving. or removing a structure or mass of materials.
Section 50-3-2. Cash deposit; certification requirements for permits.

A permit under this article shall only be granted in cases where the applicant shall

deposit has deposited with the Director of th_e

Depanment of" Public Works a sum suf?cient to cover the estimated expense of re?lling the eanth

 

soil removed and relaying the pavement.
No permit mav be issued under this article unless the permit applicant receives a
certi?cation from a City approved excavation safetv coordinator.

Sections 50-3-7 50-3-10. Reserved.

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of
City Council Member serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon
publication in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this
ordinance is passed by less than a two?thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it
shall become effective on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day
thereafter, in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Ewrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

 
 
 
 

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - II


Date: June 17, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 12063 Birwood
NAME: Kenyetta Hall
Demolition Ordered: February 25, 2019

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 14, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1St deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fog-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five {45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
- Certi?cate of Compliance, required for g? rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
?irther notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

Respect submitted,

  

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Kenyetta Hall, 12063 Birwood, Detroit, MI 48204

CLE EU JUH 2.019 $111139

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE, FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 


 
 
 

Date: June 17, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 11236 Christy
NAME: Shawn Latoya Davis
Demolition Ordered: March 3, 2014

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following informat ion:

A special inspection conducted on June 10, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1" deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within _te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
- Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes Open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Reaper: 1 submitted,

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: Shawn Latoya Davis, 8087 Sirron, Detroit, MI 48234

435 CLERK 2E JLIH 3319, F111 :39

 
 
 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CEN 
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - 


If?

Date: June 18, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 15661 Eastburn
NAME: William Lee
Demolition Ordered: October 30, 2017

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on lune 17, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within t? (10) business davs from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days fr0m the date ofthe rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45} calendar
m, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

- Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for gl_l rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respec Ily submitted,

     

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: William Lee, 1417 Lanark, Flossmoor, IL 60422

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL. CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 


 
 
 

Date: June 17, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 6200 Grayton
NAME: Willie Pitchford
Demolition Ordered: March 3, 2014

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 10, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of [he property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1St deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

I. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within t? (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule 21 Progress Inspection within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter. the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five [45) calendar
gag, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for 3L1 rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
fLuther notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respe lly submitted,

David Bell
Director



cc: Willie Pitchford, 5500 Balfour, Detroit, MI 48224

CLERK 20 JUN 2315' 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENI (313) 224-0484 - 


Date: June 18, 2019 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 560 Hague
NAME: New North LLC
Demolition Ordered: July 6, 2009

 
 
 

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 15, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which

.time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:
0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits

I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection

0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for gl_l_ rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respec lIy submitted,

  

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: New North LLC, 2930 E. Grand Blvd., Detroit, MI 48202

CLERK. 20 JUN 2019 ?11135!

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CEN 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 

I 

Date: June 18, 2019 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 229 Leicester
NAME: New North LLC
Demolition Ordered: May 7, 2018

 
 
 
 

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 15, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 2."d deferral request for this

 

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forg??ve (45) calendar
da s, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.



Respectfu submitted,

    

Dav: ell

Director
DB:bkd

cc: New North LLC, 2930 E. Grand Blvd., Detroit, MI 48202

CLERK 20 JUN. ?Elli? 

 
 
 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 

MLGOV 40

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 313 Mt. Vernon
NAME: Noblestone Greenback One, LLC
Demolition Ordered: May 18, 2015

Date: June 19, 2019

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on May 23, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy- This is the 1?t deferral request for this
property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within gm (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a i?rogress Inspection within forty-?ve [45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every fora-?ve (45) calendar
M, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a? rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Resp ally submitted,

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Noblestone Greenback One, LLX, 2930 E. Grand Blvd, Detroit, MI 48202

2'1 25119 

 
 
 

{1 CLEF:

  
   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL. 

2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - 
a?

Date: June 18, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 214-18 Owen
NAME: ALIM Holdings LLC
Demolition Ordered: March 3, 2015

In response to the request for a delbrral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 15, 2019 reveaicd that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all lattes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner's use and occupancy. This is the 1st deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every fortv-?ve (45) calendar
gig, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for gm rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Res cctl'ully submittc

avid Bell
Director



cc: ALIM Holdings LLC, 720 Dumont PL, Valley Stream, NY 11581
ALIM Holdings LLC, 2930 E. Grand Blvd., Detroit, MI 48202

20,1th ?7'01? Pt-iliEtEl

a

1.. 

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMEN DEPARTMENT 224-0484 - 




Date: June 17, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 6004 Proctor
NAME: Hang T. Nguyen
Demolition Ordered: May 2, 2016

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on May 2, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The preposed use of the property is owner's use and occupancy. This is the 1" deferral request for this

 

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within till. (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule 2 Progress Inspection within forty??ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
- Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for all rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

?Sl?lBleLl ly submitted,

  

Duvi 
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Hang T. Nguyen, 1422 Longfellow, Detroit, MI 48206

on LI: so: so Jet-I sees me :33.

FIJI .

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE., FOURTH FLOOR

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313)224-0484 - TTY2711



Date: June 18, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 20040 Vaughan
NAME: Moore Bright Housing
Demolition Ordered: July 28, 2014

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 15, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 2?d deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following

conditions:

1.

5.

6.

A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED

detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every fortv-five (45) calendar

days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits

0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection

- Certi?cate of Compliance, required for rental properties

The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

 

Respe lly submitted,

 

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: Moore Bright Housing, 19614 Shields, Detroit, MI 48234

cm CLERK 2:3 .1131 331:4 was;

0/5

 
 
 

?lb

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND (3I3) 224-0484 - 

WW W.DETR01TMLGOV

Date: June 17, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 8355 Wisconsin
NAME: Rum Cay LLC
Demolition Ordered: October 3, 2003

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information: 

A special inspection conducted on June 12, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following

conditions:

1.

S.

6.

A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within 1Q (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
d_ay_s, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits

0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection

0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respee

David Bell
Director

DB :bkd

bmilted.

cc: Rum Cay LLC, 301 Thelma 1, Casper, WY 82609
Rum Cay LLC, 6 Parklane Blvd., 545-Dearborn, MI 48126
CLERK 20 JUN 2019 mi :35;

  
  

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 15R
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFE ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL. (313) 224-0484 - 



.I.


Date: June 18, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 275 Woodland
NAME: New North LLC
Demolition Ordered: July 21, 2014

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on June 15, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has
paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the ISI deferral request for this

property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fortvd'we (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
m, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_H rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
?irther notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Resp lfully submitted,

    

i'WlLl Bell
Director

DB :bkd

cc: New North LLC, 234 E. Bethune, Detroit, MI 48202
New North 2930 E. Grand Blvd, Detroit, MI 48202

   
 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 611
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-390l - TTY2711

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (313) 224-1464
ADMINISTRATION DIVISION 

June 14, 2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Avenue

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Easement Agreement Portion of Joseph Campau Right of Way Stroh
Company and Talon Center Properties

Honorable City Council

The City of Detroit, Department Of Public Works desires an easement across a
portion of 2690 E. Atwater, Detroit, Michigan, which is owned by Stroh Properties, Inc.
(?Stroh?), a Michigan corporation, and a portion of 3100 Guoin, Detroit, Michigan, which
is owned by Talon Center Partners, LLC, a Michigan limited liability company (?Talon?),
(collectively the ?Easement?), for the purpose of constructing and maintaining a public
recreational pathway and trail for the continuation of the Joseph Campus Greenway.

Stroh and Talon has agreed to grant the City the Easement in exchange for the paving and
re?opening of McDougall Street between Wight Street and Atwater Street, which will be
brought before this Honorable Body under Petition 935-DPW.

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the

Director of DPW to acquire the Easement in exchange for the rededication of McDougall
Street.

Respectfully submitted,

.-
?maty??
Ron Brund dge, Directo

Department of Public Works

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL 

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approved the
acquisition of an easement from Stroh Properties, Inc. (?Stroh?), a Michigan corporation, across
certain real property at 2690 E. Atwater, Detroit, Michigan, and Talon Center Partners, LLC,
(?Talon?), a Michigan limited liability company, across certain real property at 3100 Guoin (the
?Easement?), as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, and be
if further

RESOLVED, that Stroh is the owner of certain land in the City of Detroit, located at 2690 E.
Atwater, Detroit, Michigan, more particularly described on the attached Exhibit A (?Easement
Area?), and is prepared to grant to the City of Detroit a perpetual easement in, on, over and across
the easement area, in exchange for the paving and re-opening of McDougall Street between Wight
Street and Atwater Street, as re?ected in Petition and be if further

RESOLVED, that Talon is the owner of certain land in the City of Detroit, located at 3100 Guion,
Detroit, Michigan, more particularly described on the attached Exhibit (?Easement Area?), and
is prepared to grant to the City of Detroit a perpetual easement in, on, over and across the easement
area, in exchange for the paving and re-opening of McDougall Street between Wight Street and
Atwater Street, as re?ected in Petition and be if further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Department of Public Works, or his authorized designee, is
authorized to execute such Easement documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the
City?s acquisition of the Basement; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Department of Public Works, or his authorized designee is
authorized to execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or
changes to the Easement documents (including but not limited to correction of or con?rmations of
legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes
are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or
technical matters that may arise prior to the acquisition of the Basement, provided that the changes
do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer of the Easement acquisition; and be it
?nally

RESOLVED, that the Easement documents will be considered con?rmed when executed by the
Director of the Department of Public Works, or his authorized designee, and approved by the
Corporation Counsel as to form.

EXHIBIT A
STROH PROPERTY LEGAL DESCRIPTION

EASEMENT no. 8 (PARCEL B)
For Ingress, Egress. Utilities, Drainage and any other uses
deemed necessary by censenting parties.

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne. State of
Michigan:

A parcel of land of part of the "Then. 3. Dennis J. Cempeu
Plat of Subdivision of Private Claim EDD, Jos. Cempnu Estate"
recorded-in Liber 2 of Plats. Page 1. Wayne County Records,
more particularly described as follows: CDnmenCing er the
intersection of the southerly line of Atweter Street (50 feet
nide] and the westerly line of Joseph Campau Avenue
{presently 59.55 feet hide); .

thence South 26 degrees 0? minutes 00 seconds East along
the westerly line of Joseph Cempau Avenue, a distance of
155.33 feet to the Point of Beginning. also being the
northwesterly corner of the vecated portion of Joseph Campau
hvenue {59.55 feet wide]:

thence continuing South 26 degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds
East slang the westerly line of vacated Joseph Campau Avenue,
a distance of 231.?0 feet to the United States Harbor Line;

thence North 61 degrees 37 minutes 23 seconds East along
the United Std;es Harbor Line, a distance of 69.70 feet to
a point on the'easterly line of vacated Joseph Campau Avenue;
'thence North 26 degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds West along
the easterly lihe of vacated Joseph Campau Avenue. a distance
of 233.29 feet to a point on the northerly line of vacated
Joseph Campau Avenue; 

thence South 60 degrees 19 minutes 18 seconds West along
the northerly line of Vacated Joseph Campau.Avenue, a
distance of 69.78 feet to the Point of Beginning. Containning
0.&Sl7 acres.?

LEGAL EASMEJUT

CGrr?c+


gas? Sun?n?l RS

 

Exhibit 
TALON PROPERTY LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Unit 1B, Block A, RIVER PLACE CONDOMINIUM, according to the Master Deed in Liber
24859, Page(s) 95 through 172, inclusive, amended by First Amendment to Master Deed recorded
in Liber 24978, Page(s) 834 through 845, inclusive, and amended by Second Amendment to
Master Deed recorded in Liber 25045, Page(s) 189 though 197, inclusive, and amended by Third
Amendment to Master Deed recorded in Liber 29732, Page(s) 1240 through 1255, inclusive, and
amended by Fourth Amendement to Master Deed recorded in Liber 32211, Page(s) 1 through 14,
Wayne County Records, and designated as Wayne County Condominium Subdivision Plan No.
299, together with rights in general common elements and limited common elements, as set forth,
in the above Master Deed and Amendments and as described in Act 59 of the Public Acts of 1978,
as amended.

 

ATWATER 8:

SW CORNER

JOS CAMPAU 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


(FOR OFFICE USE ONLY) CARTO 38 
CITY OF DETROIT
DESCRIPTION ERIN CHE AND DATE LEGAL DESCRIPTION CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
ATWATER ST AND 105 CAMPAU AVE. SURVEY BUREAU
WLW KSM (P. O. B. Met With P. O.E.) No. 01-01
DATE 06_12_1 9 APPROVED DRWG- No.

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE. SUITE 601

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS PHONE: (313) 224-3949 . 
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION FAX: (313)224-3471

 



June 18, 2019
Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition o. 224 Mt. Calvary Lutheran Church request to vacate an alleyway
east of Chalmers Avenue, between Seymour and Spring Garden Streets.

Petition No. 224 Mt. Calvary Lutheran Church request to vacate and convert to easement the
east-west alley, 16 feet wide, in the block of Seymour Avenue, 60 feet wide, Spring Garden
Avenue, 66 feet wide, Chalmers Avenue, 60 feet wide, and Celestine Avenue, 60 feet wide.

The petition was referred to the City Engineering Division DPW for investigation (utility review)
and report. This is our report.

The request is being made to consolidate properties for zoning purposes in order to Open a mission
retreat center to host visiting groups to assist with neighborhood renovation.

The request was approved by the Solid Waste Division DPW, and Traf?c Engineering Division
DPW, and City Engineering DPW.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) has no Objection to the conversion to easement.
The speci?c DWSD provisions for easements are included in the resolution. DTE Energy reports
having services in the area. A provision to maintain access to DTE facilities is a part of the
resolution.

All other involved City Departments, and privately owned utility companies have reported no
Objections to the conversion of the public right-of-way into a private easement for public utilities.
Provisions protecting utility installations are part of the attached resolution.

I am recommending adoption of the attached resolution.


RespEctfully submittedRichard Doherty, P.E..-, City Engineer
City Engineering Division - DPW


Cc: Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW
Mayor?s Of?ce City Council Liaison

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

RESOLVED, that all the east-west alley, 16 feet wide, in the block of Seymour Avenue, 60 feet
wide, Spring Garden Avenue, 66 feet wide, Chalmers Avenue, 60 feet wide, and Celestine Avenue,
60 feet wide; Further described as land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan being:

The east-west alley, 16 feet wide, lying southerly of and adjoining the southerly line of
Lots 398 through 414, both inclusive, and lying northerly of and adjoining the northerly line of
Lots 369 through 385, both inclusive ?Young?s Gratiot View Subdivision of 55 acres of V2
of SE 1A of Section 12, lying in the Township of Gratiot and City of Detroit, Wayne
County, Michigan? as recorded in Liber 30, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Be and the same is hereby vacated as a public right-of-way and converted into a private easement
for public utilities of the full width of the right-of-way, which easement shall be subject to the
following covenants and agreements, uses, reservations and regulations, which shall be observed
by the owners of the lots abutting on said right-of-way and by their heirs, executors, administrators
and assigns, forever to wit:

First, said owners hereby grant to and for the use of the public an easement or right-of-way over
said vacated public alley herein above described for the purposes of maintaining, installing,
repairing, removing, or replacing public utilities such as water mains, sewers, gas lines or mains,
telephone, electric light conduits or poles or things usually placed or installed in a public right-of-
way in the City of Detroit, with the right to ingress and egress at any time to and over said easement
for the purpose above set forth,

Second, said utility easement or right-of-way in and over said vacated alley herein above described
shall be forever accessible to the maintenance and inspection forces of the utility companies, or
those speci?cally authorized by them, for the purpose of inspecting, installing, maintaining,
repairing, removing, or replacing any sewer, conduit, water main, gas line or main, telephone or
light pole or any utility facility placed or installed in the utility easement or right-of-way. The
utility companies shall have the right to cross or use the driveways and yards of the adjoining
properties for ingress and egress at any time to and over said utility easement with any necessary
equipment to perform the above mentioned task, with the understanding that the utility companies
shall use due care in such crossing or use, and that any property damaged by the utility companies,
other than that speci?cally prohibited by this resolution, shall be restored to a satisfactory
condition,

Third, said owners for their heirs and assigns further agree that no buildings or structures of any
nature whatsoever including, but not limited to, concrete slabs or driveways, retaining or partition
walls (except necessary line fences or gates), shall be built or placed upon said easement, nor
change of surface grade made, without prior approval of the City Engineering Division DPW,

Fourth, that if the owners of any lots abutting on said vacated alley shall request the removal and/ or
relocation of any existing poles or other utilities in said easement; such owners shall pay all costs
incidental to such removal and/or relocation, unless such charges are waived by the utility owners,

Fifth, that if any utility located in said property shall break or be damaged as a result of any action
on the part of said owners or assigns (by way of illustration but not limitation) such as storage of
excessive weights of materials or construction not in accordance with Section 3, mentioned above,
then in such event said owners or assigns shall be liable for all costs incidental to the repair of such
broken or damaged utility; and

Provided, that the property owners maintain for DTE Energy, full access to their facilities at all
times gated access with DTE locks at all ends of the easement) and that free and easy access
to the DTE facilities is reserved for DTE equipment, including the use of backhoes, bull dozers,
cranes or pipe trucks, and other heavy construction equipment, as necessary for the alteration or
repair of DTE facilities, and further

Provided, that an easement, the full width of the existing rights-of?way, is reserved for the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department for the purpose of installing, maintaining, repairing, removing,
or replacing any sewers, water mains, ?re hydrants and appurtenances, with the right of ingress
and egress at any time to, and over said easement for the purpose above set forth; and be it further

Provided, that free and easy access to the sewers, water mains, ?re hydrants and appurtenances
within the easement is required for Detroit Water and Sewerage Department equipment, including
the use of backhoes, bull dozers, cranes or pipe trucks, and other heavy construction equipment,
as necessary for the alteration or repair of the sewer or water main facilities; and be it further

Provided, that the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department retains the right to install suitable
permanent main location guide post over its water mains at reasonable intervals and at points
de?ection; and be it further

Provided, that said owners of the adjoining property, for themselves, their heirs and assigns, agree
that no building or structure of any nature whatsoever, including porches, patios, balconies, etc.,
shall be built upon or over said easement, or that no grade changes or storage of materials shall be
made within said easement without prior written approval and agreement with the Detroit Water
and Sewerage Department; and be it further

Provided, that if any time in the future, the owners of any lots abutting on said vacated alley shall
request the removal and/ or relocation of the aforementioned utilities in said easement, such owners
shall pay all costs incident to such removal and/or relocation. It is further provided that if sewers,
water mains, and/or appurtenances in said easement shall break or be damaged as a result of any
action on the part of the owner, or assigns, then in such event, the owner or assigns shall be liable
for all costs incident to the repair of such broken or damaged sewers and water mains, and shall
also be liable for all claims for damages resulting from his action; and be it further

Provided, that if it becomes necessary to remove the paved alley returns at the entrances (into
Chalmers Avenue, and/or Celestine Avenue) such removal and construction of new curb and
sidewalk shall be done under city permit and inspection according to City Engineering Division 
DPW speci?cations with all costs borne by the abutting owner(s), their heir or assigns; and further

Provided, that the City Clerk shall within 30 days record a certi?ed copy of this resolution with
the Wayne County Register of Deeds.

 

PETITION NO. 224
MT CALVARY LUTHERAN CHURCH
1 7100 CHALMERS AT SEYMOUR
DETROIT MICHIGAN 48205
PHONE NO. (373 527-3366

REV. 5. CA RIER

PHONE NO. (810) 887-0363

CELESTINE AVE. 60 FT. WD.
- CONVERSION TO EASEMENT
(FOR OFFICE USE ONLY) CARTO 67 

A THE WD. 
Jam? 
SA mom KSM SPRING AVE. 07"?
72-06-18 AND CELESTINE AVE. ?mm 224

 

 

 

 

 

(Eitp of Eetruit

Janice M. Whirev OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Vivian A Hudson
City Clerk Deputy City Cia'k

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, March 12, 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

224 Mt. Calvary Lutheran Church, request to vacate an alleyway east of Chalmers
Avenue, between Seymour and Spring Garden Streets.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 482263400
(313) 224 3260 I Fax (313) 224?1466



 

[aluurg Lutheran [hutch

17100 Chalmers at Seymour 0 Detroit, Michigan 48205
Office Phone (313)-527-3366 0 E?mail: 

The Honorable City Council

Attention: Office of the City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Office of the City Clerk,

On behalf of Mount Calvary Lutheran Church, I, Rev. John Carrier, am requesting that you vacate the
alleyway east of Chalmers Avenue, between Seymour and Spring Garden streets. We are requesting
that the alleyway be vacated from Chalmers Avenue to: Seymour Lot 381 Youngs Gratiot View sub L40
P53 Plats, 21/607 35 104.32, Parcel ID: 21017048, commonly known as 14489 Seymour, Detroit,
MI 48205, and the corresponding addresses on Spring Garden.

The alleyway runs between properties we own on both Spring Garden and Seymour. We understand
that the properties must remain open and accessible for emergency and utility vehicles. We also
understand that we would be responsible for maintaining the property as part of our parcels of
properties. The Zoning Board has included this as a requirement for permits we are seeking to open a
mission retreat center to host mission groups visiting Detroit as volunteers to assist with neighborhood
renovation (primarily on the north-east side of the City in and near the 9th Precinct), Camp Restore
Detroit, on the premises of Mount Calvary Lutheran Church. Parts ofthis alleyway also impact a Head
Start Preschool play area on our property.

We would appreciate your action on this matter as soon as possible in order to expedite movement
forward on our permits.

In the service of Christ and the People of the City of Detroit,


'i ?x
ELL LC

 

. 
?irt ev. John 5. Carrier





Pastor, Mount Calvary Lutheran Church
17100 Chalmers at Seymour

Detroit, MI 48205

O: (313) 527?3366

M: (810) 887?0363

94

2018-03-12 224

224 Petition of Mt. Calvary Lutheran
Church, request to vacate an alleyway
east of Chalmers Avenue, between
Seymour and Spring Garden Streets.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE. SUITE 60]

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS PHONE: (313) 224-3949 I1
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION (313) 224-3471

 

I u? 

June 17, 2019
Honorable City Council:

RE: Petition No. 416 Number 1 Car Company, INC. request to close alley located
near 4210-4236 8 Mile Rd.

Petition No. 416 Number 1 Car Company, INC. request to vacate and convert to easement the
north-south alley, 18 feet wide, and the east-west alley, 20 feet wide, both alleys in the block of
Hamlet Avenue, 60 feet wide, East Eight Mile Road, 204 feet wide, Dean Avenue, 60 feet wide,
and Sunset Avenue, 60 feet wide.

The petition was referred to the City Engineering Division DPW for investigation (utility review)
and report. This is our report.

The request is being made to consolidate properties and prevent illegal dumping in the alleys.

The request was approved by the Solid Waste Division DPW, and Traf?c Engineering Division
DPW, and City Engineering - DPW.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) has no objection to the conversion to easement.
The speci?c DWSD provisions for easements are included in the resolution.

DTE Energy reports having services in the area. A provision to maintain access to DTE facilities
is a part of the resolution.

All other involved City Departments, and privately owned utility companies have reported no
objections to the conversion of the public rights-of-way into a private easements for public utilities.
Provisions protecting utility installations are part of the attached resolution.

I am recommending adoption of the attached resolution.


Respectfully submitted,

(Jig/Ali 

Richard Doherty, City Engineer
City Engineering {Division DPW
V.


Cc: Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW
Mayor?s Of?ce City Council Liaison

.. h_ "ll

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLVED, that all of the north-south alley, 18 feet wide, and the east-west alley, 20 feet wide,
both alleys in the block of Hamlet Avenue, 60 feet wide, East Eight Mile Road, 204 feet wide,
Dean Avenue, 60 feet wide, and Sunset Avenue, 60 feet wide; Further described as land in the City
of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan being:

1) The north?south alley, 18 feet wide, lying easterly of and adjoining the easterly line of Lots
260 through 268, both inclusive, and lying westerly of and adjoining the westerly line of Lots
154 through 162, both inclusive ?Eureka Gardens-Outer Drive Subdivision No. of part of
N.W. of Section 5 Hamtramck Township, Wayne County, Michigan? as
recorded in Liber 47 Page 46 of Plats, Wayne County Records; also lying easterly of and
adjoining the easterly line of Lot 49 and lying westerly of and adjoining the westerly line of
Lot 50 ?Assessor?s Baseline Superhighway Subdivision No. 1 a re-subdivision of Lots 138 to
153 incl., 269 to 272 incl., and vacated alleys of Eureka Gardens-Outer Drive Subdivision No.
1 of part of N.W. of Section 5 1E. City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan? as
recorded in Liber 63, Page 67 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

2) The east-west alley, 20 feet wide, lying northerly of and adjoining the northerly line of Lots 49
and 50 and the alley adjoining, and lying southerly of and adjoining the southerly line of Lots
37 through 48, both inclusive ?Assessor?s Baseline Superhighway Subdivision No. 1 a re-
subdivision of Lots 138 to 153 incl., 269 to 272 incl., and vacated alleys of Eureka Gardens-
Outer Drive Subdivision No. 1 of part of N.W. of Section 5 1E. City of Detroit,
Wayne County, Michigan? as recorded in Liber 63, Page 67 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Be and the same are hereby vacated as a public rights-of?way and converted into a private
easements for public utilities of the full width of the rights-of-way, which easements shall be
subject to the following covenants and agreements, uses, reservations and regulations, which shall
be observed by the owners of the lots abutting on said rights-of?way and by their heirs, executors,
administrators and assigns, forever to wit:

First, said owners hereby grant to and for the use of the public an easement or right-of-way over
said vacated public alleys herein above described for the purposes of maintaining, installing,
repairing, removing, or replacing public utilities such as water mains, sewers, gas lines or mains,
telephone, electric light conduits or poles or things usually placed or installed in a public right-of-
way in the City of Detroit, with the right to ingress and egress at any time to and over said easement
for the purpose above set forth,

Second, said utility easement or right-of-way in and over said vacated alleys herein above
described shall be forever accessible to the maintenance and inspection forces of the utility
companies, or those speci?cally authorized by them, for the purpose of inspecting, installing,
maintaining, repairing, removing, or replacing any sewer, conduit, water main, gas line or main,
telephone or light pole or any utility facility placed or installed in the utility easement or right-of-
way. The utility companies shall have the right to cross or use the driveways and yards of the
adjoining properties for ingress and egress at any time to and over said utility easement with any
necessary equipment to perform the above mentioned task, with the understanding that the utility

companies shall use due care in such crossing or use, and that any property damaged by the utility
companies, other than that speci?cally prohibited by this resolution, shall be restored to a
satisfactory condition,

Third, said owners for their heirs and assigns further agree that no buildings or structures of any
nature whatsoever including, but not limited to, concrete slabs or driveways, retaining or partition
walls (except necessary line fences or gates), shall be built or placed upon said easement, nor
change of surface grade made, without prior approval of the City Engineering Division DPW,

Fourth, that if the owners of any lots abutting on said vacated alleys shall request the removal
and/or relocation of any existing poles or other utilities in said easement; such owners shall pay all
costs incidental to such removal and/or relocation, unless such charges are waived by the utility
owners,

Fifth, that if any utility located in said property shall break or be damaged as a result of any action
on the part of said owners or assigns (by way of illustration but not limitation) such as storage of
excessive weights of materials or construction not in accordance with Section 3, mentioned above,
then in such event said owners or assigns shall be liable for all costs incidental to the repair of such
broken or damaged utility; and

Provided, that the property owners maintain for DTE Energy, full access to their facilities at all
times gated access with DTE looks at all ends of the easement) and that free and easy access
to the DTE facilities is reserved for DTE equipment, including the use of backhoes, bull dozers,
cranes or pipe trucks, and other heavy construction equipment, as necessary for the alteration or
repair of DTE facilities, and further

Provided, that an easement, the full width of the existing rights-of?way, is reserved for the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department for the purpose of installing, maintaining, repairing, removing,
or replacing any sewers, water mains, ?re hydrants and appurtenances, with the right of ingress
and egress at any time to, and over said easement for the purpose above set forth; and be it further

Provided, that free and easy access to the sewers, water mains, ?re hydrants and appurtenances
within the easement is required for Detroit Water and Sewerage Department equipment, including
the use of backhoes, bull dozers, cranes or pipe trucks, and other heavy construction equipment,
as necessary for the alteration or repair of the sewer or water main facilities; and be it further

Provided, that the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department retains the right to install suitable
permanent main location guide post over its water mains at reasonable intervals and at points
de?ection; and be it ?lrther

Provided, that said owners of the adjoining property, for themselves, their heirs and assigns, agree
that no building or structure of any nature whatsoever, including porches, patios, balconies, etc.,
shall be built upon or over said easement, or that no grade changes or storage of materials shall be
made within said easement without prior written approval and agreement with the Detroit Water
and Sewerage Department; and be it further

Provided, that if any time in the future, the owners of any lots abutting on said vacated alleys shall
request the removal and/ or relocation of the aforementioned utilities in said easement, such owners
shall pay all costs incident to such removal and/or relocation. It is further provided that if sewers,
water mains, and/or appurtenances in said easement shall break or be damaged as a result of any
action on the part of the owner, or assigns, then in such event, the owner or assigns shall be liable
for all costs incident to the repair of such broken or damaged sewers and water mains, and shall
also be liable for all claims for damages resulting from his action; and be it further

Provided, that if it becomes necessary to remove the paved alley returns at the entrances (into
Sunset Avenue, and/or Dean Avenue, and/or Hamlet Avenue) such removal and construction of
new curb and sidewalk shall be done under city permit and inspection according to City
Engineering Division DPW speci?cations with all costs borne by the abutting owner(s), their
heir or assigns; and further

Provided, that the City Clerk shall within 30 days record a certi?ed copy of this resolution with
the Wayne County Register of Deeds.

 

 

 

 

PETITION NO. 416
NUMBER 7 CAR COMPANY, INC.
4270 E. 8 MILE RD.

DETROIT MICHIGAN 43234
MIKE SEMMA

PHONE NO. 248 789-9842

 

E. 8 MILE RD. 204 FT. WD.

19.234.123.ELIE -

 

 

DEAN AVE. 60 FT. WD.
TT
SUNSET AVE. 60 FT. WD.

 

 

3 2501633

 

 

HAMLET AVE. 60 FT. WD.



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- CONVERSION TO EASEIVIENT
(FOR OFFICE USE CARTO 91 A
CONVERSION TO EASEMENT CITY OF DETROIT
. . THE PUBLIC ALLEY, 76 FT. WD. AND CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
":mmwm" m: THE PUBLIC ALLEY, 18 FT. WD. SURVEY BUREAU
unmn av WLW KSM IN THE BLOCK BOUND BY . -
WW SUNSET, HAMLET, DEAN AVE. No ?01 01 
09-17-18 AND E. 8 MILE RD. 476

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 at Eetrnit

Janice MW?nfrev OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK ViviaiA Hudson
City Clerk Deputy City Clair

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Friday, June 22, 2018

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From." Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

416 Number 1 Car Company, INC, request to close alley located near 4210?4236 
8 Mile Rd.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

NUMBER 1 CAR 

06/11/2018

To Whom It May Concern:

Please accept this letter as a request to the City of Detroit from Number 1 Car Company, Inc. to close
the alley located directly behind our building. We have recently acquired the property to the east of us
at 4236 {i iviile Rd which now makes us the owners of all property on the block between Dean and
Sunset.

Our comp: ny intends to place a fence arocnd the properties as a whole and would like to close the alley
and includ a that in the fenced in area as all. The closing of this alley would also eliminate the dumping
of trash th at has always been a nuisance to us and the neighborhood as a whole.

We have a :tached a letter from the reside: It located directly next the alley on 20567 Sunset to show her
support of the proposed plan to close the Hey. We have attached a picture of the property located
directly next to the alley on Dean Street. lnere is no house on that property, just an empty lot where
many trees and weeds have taken over.

Thank you for your time in considering our request and we look forward to your response regarding this
matter. If {ou have any questions or concerns feel free to contact me at 586-601-5995 during normal

business Jurs.

Sincerely,
Mazin Ma ogi

Owner

e3w~en\ - 

CLERK 20 JUN 201E: PfllElPL'iE 8 MILE RD. I DETROIT, VII 48234 I 

2018035849 L: 54218 P: 646 WD

04:40:10 PM Total Pages: 20

Bernard J. Youngblood, Register of Deeds - Wayne County, MI
ELECTRONICALLY RECORDED

MICHIGAN REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
r?j' - I Wayne County County Tax Stamp #471614

 

 

. - 1331312013
1? Recelpt#18-28686 L: 54218 P: 646
State Tax: $412.50 County Tax: $60.50
WARRANTYDEED
CHIRCO TITLE AGENCY, INC. Wm
255cc met-Am 2: am elegant: eat-:31 (586)772-7020

 

Lawre nee Kevin Helntz. the Trustee of th a Lawrence Kevin Heintz Trust dated July 19. 1995, as may be
amen ted, whose A?idavlt Regarding Tm: is attached hereto, Stanton whose address is 919 Met-raged.
gharn. Ml 480119, conveys and wan "ants to Number 1 Car Company It, Inn, at Michigan corporation.
Grant 1e. whose address is 4210 E. 8 'e Rd, Detroit. MI 48234. the premises in the City at tilatrtzutt1
Count yofWayne. State of Michigan. descihed as:

Lots -.4, 45. 46. 47 and 48. ASSESSC RS BASE LINE SUPERHIGHWAY SUBDIVISION NO. 1, as
resorted in Liber 63, Page 6? cf Fists, Wz- yne County Records.

Commonly knew: as 4236 E. 8 Mile Rd, ?Jetreit, Ml 48234.

For the consideration of Fifty-Fara Thousand And Ballads) subject to easements.
and zcning ordinances of record, ifany and to the taxes which baca?me a tier: on December 31.
2017 under Michigan Public Act143 of 1995 and vmich become due and payable after the date of this

deed.

Dated 6, 2018.
Lawre ice Kevin Heiniz Trust dated July 15 

1995' asmaybeamendedr Whose A'fi?avit Rggarding Trust is attached hereto

EWX {dill?- 1'11. _~Tme'tee
Lat trance Kevin Helnlz
Trr. stee

(INFENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK - FOLLOWS)

?it-?emcee 
thislxoperly Ramadan
is nude as a the status starry tax 
Receipt: 33121201 By: NJ 
Hichigan

?l

0148635 Page 1 of2

1.01.
. 

 



. 21-. 3;

.- - 
I: 

-. 


 

m: . . . .
any?. ?nkfa 

      

 

.

.4 3..

2018-06-22 4 1 6

416 Petition of Number 1 Car Company,
INC, request to close alley located
near 4210-4236 8 Mle Rd.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DPW 
CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION

 of Eetrm?t 

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ 
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM

TO: Chief Craig, Detroit Police Department
THRU: Council Member Scott BenSOn, Public Health and Safety Committee
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez 

r. 8?6?
DATE: June 17, 2019
RE: Emergency Curfew Ordinance

 

Each year the City passes an ordinance to provide a curfew for minors from 8:00pm on the night of
the Detroit Annual Fireworks Display until 6:00am the next morning, restricted to the riverfront
area and with important exceptions, such as for free speech activity.

Even with these limits in place, I am concerned about placing these curfew restrictions on minors
Without a reasonable basis. Please provide any data from the past several years that demonstrates
the necessity of continuing with this curfew ordinance, including the number of incidents or
altercations caused by minors during the Fireworks event. Are there any plans to phase out this
ordinance?

Please contact my of?ce (313) 224-2450 if you have any questions.

Cc:

Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


Mining?? \07/

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA Jones

MEMORANDUM

TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Council
Law Department

CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 
DATE: June 25, 2019
RE: Commercial Nuisance Abatement Program

 

Please draft an Ordinance to address the speculation and deterioration of commercial properties
through the creation of a Commercial Nuisance Abatement Program.

 

City of Eetrnit

 

CITY COUNCIL

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

TO: Mr. David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
THROUGH: C0uncil President Brenda Jones

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore Mary Shef?e?

DATE: June 20, 2019

RE: Resolution Designating June 19th as Juneteenth Day in Detroit

 

On June 19, 1865, more than two years after the signing of the Emancipation
Proclamation, enslaved people in the State of Texas were ?nally noti?ed that they were
of?cially free. uneteenth serves as a way for African Americans across the United States
to collectively celebrate our emancipation from slavery. Therefore, I am requesting that a
resolution be drafted to of?cially designate June 19th as uneteenth day in the City of
Detroit.

Thank you.

Cc: Honorable Colleagues
Hon. Janice Win?ey, City Clerk

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


