VOTE

wag/Ia

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

30

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL I

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

HON. KWAME KENYATTA

We, the members ofthe Detroit City Council, mourn the death and celebrate the powerful life offormer Detroit City Councilman

Kwame Kenyatta. He served the City of Detroit with integrity, a strong moral compass and embodied the consummate public
servant. When Kenyatta believed he no longer could serve with the full power entrusted to him by the residents of Detroit due
to the appointment of an Emergency Manager, he chose to resign instead of compromise. This action symbolized how Kwame
Kenyatta lived his life devoted to the people and true to the cause. Kenyatta made his transition on May 22, 2019 in his
hometown of Bessemer, Alabama; and

Kwame Olugbala Yao Kenyatta (birth name Norman Tyus) was born on March 15, 1956 in Bessemer, Alabama - a small
community that provided him with a ?rm foundation, but also was the place where he was ?rst confronted with the harsh realities
of racism and discrimination. At the age of12, Kenyatta and his family moved to Detroit. Their arrival occurred in the a?ermath
ofthe 1967 Detroit Rebellion, as the Black Power and Civil Rights Movements were at the forefront ofthe national consciousness.
It was at this time in the City ofDetroit that Kenyatta?s burgeoning political formation began and his life ofactivism arose; and

Kenyatta was educated in the Detroit Public School system and attended Cooley High School. While at Cooley, Kenyatta formed
the Detroit Black Student Association to advocate for the inclusion of Black Studies in the curriculum. It also was during this
time, that he reclaimed an African name. His ?rst name and surname were chosen in honor oftwo revolutionary African political
titans, Kwame Nkrumah, the ?rst Prime Minister and President of Ghana, and Jomo Kenyatta, the first Prime Minister and
President of Kenya. Kenyatta continued his studies at Eastern Michigan University and Wayne County Community College.
Beyond his formal studies, Kenyatta was an independent scholar, an avid reader and researcher. His vast collection of books
focused on the history, culture and political movements of the African Diaspora; and

Kenyatta was recruited by a neighborhood friend tojoin the Shrine of the Black Madonna Pan African Orthodox Christian Church,
where he continued to learn about organized Black political struggle. Following his brief membership in the Shrine, Kenyatta
continued his involvement in organizations committed to Black self-determination and empowerment. He served as head of the
youth league of the Pan-African Congress USA (PAC-USA), and was co-founder of the All Afrikan Liberation Committee a
youth-led organization that planned the African Liberation Day march. During this time, Kenyatta was mentored by a host of
political and cultural innovators and leaders; and

in later years, Kenyatta held membership in several organizations, including the Republic of New Afrika, the New A?'ikan
People?s Organization, the Malcolm Grassroots Movement, ihankra lntemational and the National Black United Front. For
ten years, Kenyatta directed the Malcolm Community Center for Self-Determination, a popular community hub. As a cultural
consultant, he conducted many educational workshops, Afrikan naming ceremonies, weddings, libation, rites of passage
ceremonies and keynote speeches; and

Kenyatta sought new ways to express and expand his commitment to Black Empowerment and decided to run for public of?ce.
He was elected to the Detroit School Board in 1992 and became known as a visionary and passionate civic leader. Kenyatta rose
to the position of vice president of the board and, during his ?ve-year tenure, Kenyatta was an outspoken advocate for African-
centered education. Kenya tta?s governance was instrumental in the establishment ofthe Malcolm Academy, a pioneering all-
male, African-centered school. Under his leadership, the school was dedicated to providing an academically-rigorous, culturally-
relevant and world-class education to its students. This model became the platinum standard adopted by many school systems
across the country. Kenyatta was elected to the Wayne County Commission in 2003 and the Detroit City Council in 2005. In all
of his elected positions, Kenyatta remained true to his beliefs and convictions. His 2013 resignation did not quell Kenyatta?s
passion for public service nor his commitment to community; and

Kenyatta relocated to Mississippi to serve as Deputy Chief Administrative Of?cer in the administration of his longtime friend
and comrade, Jackson Mayor Chokwe Lumumba. Following Lumumba's untimely death in 2014, Kenyatta remained in Jackson.
He subsequently returned to city govemment in 2017, when Chokwe Antar Lumumba won the mayoral seat formerly occupied
by his father. Following his retirement from public service, Kenyatta moved back to his homeIOWn of Bessemer, where he
resided until his passing. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and the of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones join his family and friends in honoring the life
and legacy of Kwame Olugbala Yao Kenyatta. His physical presence will be greatly missed, but the impact ofhis contributions
to Black Liberation and Black community life will live on forever.



COUNCIL IUENT

  
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

   
   

1L MEMBE

 

co GIL MEMBER 
June 22. 2019
DATE

 

 

