Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday July 20, 2017 4:00pm
2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Sanhita Agnihotri, Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Mohammad Yaqoob,
Commissioners Absent: Bhavesh Patel, Pete Valavanis, Tareq Ali Khan,
Commissioner Applicants present: Jayesh Shewakramani
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Gina Caruso, Kimberly Bares (Rogers Park Business
Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
1) Call to Order: Irshad called the meeting to order at 4:07pm.
2) June 2017 Minutes: Motion by Maura with a second by Mohammad to approve the minutes.
APPROVED
3) 2018 Sole Service Provider: The Commission discussed the Sole Service Provider for 2018 in an
executive session. Motion by Maura to approve the Rogers Park Business Alliance for the 2018
Sole Service Provider for SSA 43 with a second by Sanhita. APPROVED
4) Financial Report - 2018 Work Plan and Budget: Sandi presented the second quarter 2017 SSA
43 financials. Sandi reminded the SSA Commission the budget was prepared by the former Sole
Service Provider, the West Ridge Chamber, which explains some of the variances in budget vs
actual. The budget has more income than expenses and the SSA fund is in sound financial
condition.
5) Programs & Services
a) Security Camera Rebate Program. Gina presented the revised camera specifications.
The Commission wants to add minimum thresholds to the specifications.
b) Public Way Beautification. Gina reported that Brightview installed the perennial plants
in the district. The Commission mentioned the planters look very good. For the side
street trees, Brightview will be mulching trees and doing basic maintenance.
c) Public Way Maintenance. Irshad found two location options for a dumpster. One space
is by the Rockwell parking lot. Maura has a space on Western as well. The Commission
wants to have one dumpster east of Western and one west of Western. Locations will
be confirmed within the next couple of weeks.
d) Pressure Washing – Pressure washing was completed before July 9th.
e) Customer Attraction.
i) Sparkfactor facilitated the kick-off of the Devon SSA branding project. The
Commission discussed responses to the questionnaire and themes. The Commission
wants to have the campaign focused on people other than those already coming to the
district. Next step is for Sparkfactor to come up with concepts and categories of focus
groups. The Commission will then help come up with people to invite to the focus
groups. Sparkfactor will create a simple questionnaire for the Alderman to send out in
her e-newsletter.

1

 ii) Sanhita presented a video project for funding. The video project will do stories about
Devon’s history, culture and people. Motion by Mohammad to approve $200 to fund
students to create one video for $200 for two videos with a second by Maura.
APPROVED
f) Inside/Outside Sale –Sanhita reported that her staff person Krishna made an Excel
sheet of the contact names and numbers when enlisting businesses to participate in the
event. One suggestion by businesses is that we should try is a two-day sidewalk sale.
Motion by Maura to do a Sidewalk Sale August 19th and a two-day Sidewalk Sale
October 21-22 with a second by Sanhita. APPROVED
6) SSA Commission Keep meeting times at 4pm Mohammad motioned to approve the time
change with a second by Maura. APPROVED
7) New Business None
8) Public Input None
9) Adjournment. Motion to adjourn by Maura with a second by Mohammad. APPROVED

2

 