Clean & Green Committee Minutes
April 1, 2019 9:05 – 10:45 am
Janik’s Café – 2011 W. Division St. Chicago, IL 60622
In attendance: Wayne Janik (Committee Chair), Mary Tamminga (Voting member), Steve Jensen (Voting
member), David Ginople (SSA Chair),
Guests: Stephanie Katsaros (Vendor – Brightbeat), Matthias Scheidler (Vendor – Christy Webber), Erik
Grossnickle (Vendor – Bartlett Tree Experts) Lisa Kidd (Vendor – Cleanslate)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. North Ave. Planters
a. MS presented proposal for rock/landscaping options at three planter boxes at side
street intersections with North Ave. that have been damaged by cars
b. DG reminds the committee that Arts Committee will want to alter some planters to
install sculptures in the near future
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $1,450 from line item 2.02
(Landscaping) for installation of large landscaping rocks for in 3 planters along North Ave. at the
intersections of Paulina and Honore (19-0401)
MT motions. SJ seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
2. Milwaukee Avenue Orange Planter Maintenance
a. The committee would like the exterior of the planters cleaned and painted before the
new planters are installed so that colors match
b. Cleanslate will provide a final quote for Executive Committee to review this month
c. The committee recommends that Executive Committee motion funding for this
maintenance
Motion 2: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $750.00 from line item 3.01
(Garbage/Recycling material program) for additional cigarette recycling receptacles to be purchased
from Terracycle and placed throughout the neighborhood. (19-0402)
MT motions. SJ seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
3. Orange SSA bike racks
a. Staff working with Cleanslate to determine how many racks need to be painted and how
stickers and old locks will be removed
b. There will be a final quote for Executive Committee to review
c. The committee recommends the Executive Committee motion funding to paint and
service the older bike racks
d. EG suggested that SSA look into finding paint or adhesive options for making bike racks
more reflective at night
4. Arbor Day – April 26
a. Staff presented samples of the new tree tags to be installed before Arbor Day

 b. The committee/commissioners will be asked for assistance deploying tags throughout
the neighborhood before April 26
5. Holiday Decorations
a. Staff will post the 2019-2020 RFP this month
6. Trees
a. WJ would like to begin tracking the life span of newly planted trees going forward
b. Christy Webber will provide SSA staff with a quote for planting 6 new trees before April
Executive Committee meeting
c. EG does not think installing lights is harmful to trees but would like to know when they
will be installed so they can properly prune them
7. Christy Webber updates
a. Spring cleaning begins April 16th, weather permitting
8. Cleanslate updates
a. They are low on can liners. Ron/Lisa will send staff information on liners for so that SSA
can order
b. The committee recommends that the Executive Committee motion funding to purchase
new trash can liners
9. Recycling
a. The next shredding and recycling event on May 11th at Burr Elementary School.

 