SSA #19 Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, April 17, 2019, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Gale Howard, Commissioner; Matthew McMunn,
Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager
Absent: Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner
Guests: Lizzy Kreindler of A5 Branding & Digital; Amy Pooley of A.C.T. Group
Meeting called to order by Carrie Sullivan at 8:35 am
I.

Welcome & Introductions

II.

There was no community input.

III. March 20, 2019 Minutes
Minutes are outstanding.
IV. 2018 Draft Audit presented by Amy Pooley of A.C.T. Group
Auditor Amy Pooley of A.C.T. Group presented the draft audit 2018 to the
commissioners. Matt McMunn moved to approve the 2018 audit. Gale Howard seconded
it. Motion passed.
V. Presentation by A5 Branding & Digital on Chalk Howard St.
A5 Branding + Digital presented updates for Chalk Howard St. Festival. Potential bands
were presented to get input. We should include a Latino band in the lineup. Press
release has gone out to news agencies and the festival is getting listed into Chicago
guides. A call for 2D artists has gone out and received 11 applications. Contact has
been made with Gale Academy, Sullivan High School and Willye White Park for logistics
and giving the two schools a square to chalk. Working on a food & liquor vendors. The
commissioners want Chalk Howard St. banners. A5 to provide quote.
They presented a plan to advertise Chalk Howard St & Howard St on CTA Rail Stations
& Bus Shelters. The budget has already been set at $10,000. Commissioners were okay
with this. A5 also recommended window clings, new photography and new banners. The
Commissioners wanted to wait on this till the new brackets were installed, want to check
with property owners if window clings would be allowed and wait till after Chalk Howard
St. for new photography. Instagram has been implemented with 47 followers and
Facebook has 1800 followers.
VI. Howard St Bracket Replacements
Cynthia Ryan reported that Howard St banners have been damaged and torn and she
has replaced approximately 20 banners since they were installed 6 months ago on the
99” banners. Bannerville USA reports that the damage is due to using the existing
bracket system of the streetscape. Cynthia received permission from Hugh Donlan of the
City of Chicago Dept. of Transportation Division of Electrical Operations to replace the

 brackets. She received an approximate quote from Bannerville USA for $4950 to replace
the 99” banner brackets only. Matthew McMunn moved to approve replacement up to
$7,000. Gale Howard seconded it. Motion passed.
VII. Powerwashing Sidewalks
This discussion was moved to next month’s agenda.
VIII. 2020 Budget Spending
There was a discussion about what the commissioners wanted to spend money on in
next year’s budget. They would like to have money in special events, PR & marketing.
IX. Commissioner Seats
There was a discussion to get three more commissioners as Matthew McMunn is
resigning in June 2019 and moving out of state.
X. No New Business
No new business to report.
XI. Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned 10:00 am.
VI. Next SSA Meeting - Wed., May 15, 2019 at 8:30 am, The Factory Theater.

 