SSA #54 Commission Meeting Minutes – March 12, 2015
Royal Coffee – 6764 N. Sheridan Road
Thursday, March 12, 2015

Minutes

Attending: Chris Bell, Commissioner; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Sean Connelly, Commissioner; Tony
Fox, Commissioner; Paul Reise, RPBA Staff; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff
Absent: Heather Hill, Chair; Michelle Akan, Commissioner
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 8:17 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of February 2015 Minutes
No corrections were requested, no errors were found or additional information requested. Motion to
approve February 2015 minutes (Clark/Connelly). Unanimously Approved.
4. Staff Report
a. Budget
Paul summarized budget for commission. He presented a new format of keeping
track of projects and budget throughout the year. This document will be available
on google docs for everyone to edit/see. The commission is pleased with this
format.
b. Marketing RFP
Paul has received 7 proposals. He will share all proposals via google drive so that
commission can narrow down to the top 3. The top three will be present at next
meeting for presentations of their proposals.
c. Commission Membership
Commission discussed possible new commissioners in order to fill current vacancies.
Paul and Carolina will continue to outreach.
d. Transportation & Infrastructure
Commission decided to place this conversation in “parking lot” to be addressed in
the future. Paul will however, look into parking possibilities on Sheridan Road
directly in front of The Morgan at Loyola Station.
5. Old Business
a. Piggyback lights
According to CDOT, installation of lights is in their “schedule”. Once SSA 54
piggyback lights are next on CDOT’s list, Paul will notify the commission.
b. LUC/Place consulting survey
No update from Place Consulting at this point. They are still conducting survey.
c. Snow removal

 SSA #54 Commission Meeting Minutes – March 12, 2015
The commission agreed they are not happy with current snow removal contract.
Paul will look into new company for next contract.
6. New Business
a. Paul reported on new businesses opening soon:
i. Pita Pit
ii. Go Grocer
iii. Insomnia Cookies
b. Ideas for SSA crew projects for the summer
Commission’s ideas were: painting bike racks, pressure washing sidewalks, painting
mailboxes, cleaning up vacant storefronts
Meeting was adjourned at 9:02 a.m.

 