Sheridan Road Special Service Area #54 Commission Meeting
Royal Coffee
Thursday, November 20, 2014 / 8 a.m.

Minutes
Present: Heather Hill, Chair; Tony Fox, Commissioner; Chris Bell, Commissioner; Paul Reise, SSA 54
Manager; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff.
Absent: Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Michelle Akan, Commissioner.
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:19 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of October 2014 Minutes
No corrections were requested no errors were found or additional information requested.
Motion to approve October 2014 minutes (Fox / Bell). Unanimously approved.
4. Staff Report
a. October Financials
Commission discussed and reviewed financials.
b. Polar Palooza- Winter Market/Festival
Paul reported that the event is underway, vendors are confirmed for food, music and
merchandise.
c. Holiday Lights
Paul reported that he has been working with Illuminy; the company who is installing the
lights for Polar Palooza, to install holiday lights on most of the trees along the entire SSA
54. He has had a hard time contacting some of the property owners for access to
electrical power. The commission would like to verify the lights installed are LED in
order to minimize maintenance. Paul will also suggest Illuminy distribute business cards
along the business district in case businesses want their services for individual holiday
lighting. Paul reported that SSA 54 will be paying for electricity used via this project.
d. Piggy back lights
Paul reported that project to install piggy back lights along SSA 54 is in process. He is
currently waiting for Alderman letter of support required by the CDOT in order to sign
the contract. Lights should be installed by the spring of 2015.
5. Old Business
a. RPBA Retreat

 Sandi reported on outcome of retreat.
6. New Business
a. Meeting dates and times for 2015
Commission decided to leave monthly dates on the calendar with the understanding
that it may not be necessary to meet every month. Next meeting is Annual Meeting on
December 11, 2014 at 6 p.m. Next Commission meeting is January 8, 2014 at 8 a.m. at
Royal Coffee.
b. Paul mentioned that snow removal contract has been signed for the 2014/2015 winter
season.
7. Adjourned at 9:09a.m.

 