SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wed., September 20, 2018, 8:30 am
TJam Kitchen, 1418 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters,
Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager, Sandi
Price, RPBA
Conference Call In: Gale Howard, Commissioner
Guests: John Harris & Patrick Casey of A5 Branding & Digital: Matthew McMunn of The
Recyclery & Mike Smith of Hairz R Us, Potential Commissioners

1) Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:37 am by Barry Hoven
2) Community & Public Input
There was no community input.
3) A5 Branding & Digital Presented Howard St. SSA website www.howardstreetchicago.com
and the final banner placement within the SSA. We are to collect stories and forward to Cynthia
who will get them to A5 for social media posting and putting them on the website. Simone
mentioned that bicyclist like to stop at Sol Café and that would be a good story. Also addressing
safety & crime on the website. Possible story on Officer Bob. Story of what the SSA is doing to
improve the area, i.e. landscaping, powerwashing, holiday lights, public art would be good.
Placement of the street banners were discussed and recommended having the principal of Gale
Elementary in the main intersection of Rogers & Greenview (switching out Badou Cuisine).
Simone Freeman moved to approve the placement of the banners with the above mentioned
change .Charlotte Walters seconded it. Motion passed.
Going forward for a next round of photography, it would be good to capture Family Matters,
Howard Area, A Just Harvest. Cynthia to keep a list of interested parties who want to be on
banners.
Facebook-everyone should share and like Howard Street facebook page. Charlotte Walters
mentioned targeting actors, artists, new agers for Lost Eras. Offer $5.00 rebate cards to spend
money on Howard St. Hand them out at the El and flyer the SSA with information on the new
branding.

 A5 will send RPBA 11x17 posters to print out for businesses to put in the window. A5 gave
quotes for window clings at $4500 and brand guidelines $3500.
4) Approval of June 20, 2018, August 10, 2018, August 16, 2018 Minutes
The minutes were not approved as there are changes that need to be made and will be
presented at next meeting as amended minutes.
5) Meet Potential New Commissioners
Matthew McMunn of The Recyclery and Michael Smith of Hairz R Us were introduced and
discussed their background and interest in becoming SSA Commissioners. Cynthia to get the
commissioner application to them.
6) Jan-August 2018 Financials were discussed. Barry Hoven had questions on $426.00 owed to
SSA #43.Sandi Price explained that Brandon Harding, Director of Maintenance purchases items
at Devon Hardware for instance cleaning supplies, brooms, paint, screw drivers, lawnmower
parts, weed wacking, etc and it is charged to one SSA and then other SSAs are charged for
their part of the bill.
7) Chalk Festival RFP was discussed and Carrie Sullivan moved to approve releasing the RFP
and Charlotte Walters seconded it. Motion passed.
5) Next meeting is scheduled for Wed, Oct. 17, 2018, 8:30 am at TJam Kitchen.
Meeting adjourned at 10:15 am.

 