Commission Meeting Minutes, Wednesday, February 15, 2017, 8:30 a.m.
Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19
Minutes
Attending:
Attending : Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cato Heinz, Commissioner; Barry Hoven,
Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan, Proposed Commissioner; Sandi
Price, RPBA, Melissa Lagowski, Big Buzz Idea Group.
Absent: Gale Howard, Cally Raduenzel
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:35a.m.
2. Community and public input - none
3. Approval of Minutes
a.
November 2016 minutes were not presented for approval.
b.
(Hoven/Heinz) to approve the minutes of the January 18, 2017 SSA 19 commission
meeting as submitted. Passed unanimously.
4. New commissioners –Neville Muir of Insurance Centers and Mer from Chase Bank have been
unresponsive. Other suggestions include Enoch from Buffalo Joes.
5. Old business
a. Harvest Fest and Flavors of Howard Street – Melissa Lagowski from Big Buzz Idea
Group was in attendance. Our goal for the Harvest Fest is to bring people back to
Howard Street. There were 2,000 people at the 2016 event. Barry will see if he can get
food donated for the event. We will encourage businesses to participate I the
Scavenger Hunt. Lost Eras, Urban Warrior and Factory Theater committed to
participating. Hopefully Curls and Company will agree. The Flavors of Howard Street
event is scheduled for Sunday, May 20, 2018 from 1 to 4pm. Once restaurants agree to
participate, Simone will work with them to ensure that this is a quality event and that
everyone is on the same page. Simone and RPBA will reach out to the muralists to have
them on site the day of the event.
b. Newly opened businesses – The Wedge is opening across from Lost Eras soon.
c. Upcoming events – Factory Theater has a VIP preview show scheduled for 3/23. All are
invited to attend.
d. InQbate – Charlotte has offered to use Lost Eras as the first business for InQbate, to
test their services before engaging other businesses.
e. Street Pole Banners – Sandi looked at the budget for 2017. We do not have any money
allocated for banners. We determined that we need to first look at the branding that
Sparkfactor did for Howard Street, then determine the identity of the street moving
forward, before we put any effort into branding, including banners.
f. Business Improvement Program – There have not been any requests for BIP funds
received, however, we have sent out quite a few applications.
g. Sculpture at Eddy’s – We have a design for a large planter box that will include the
sculpture and replace the Eddy’s sign. We are currently looking to find out the cost.
6. New business - None
Meeting adjourned at 10:20 a.m. Our next meeting will be on 3/15 at 8:30am at Factory Theater.

 