Clean and Green Committee Minutes
February 4, 2019 9:05 – 11:00 am
Janik’s Café – 2011 W Division St.
In attendance: Wayne Janik (Treasurer), Mary Tamminga (Voting member),
Guests: David Ginople (SSA Chair), Stephanie Kastaros (Vendor - Bright Beat), Matthias Scheidler (Vendor
- Christy Webber), Andrew Johengen (Vendor - Brightview)
Staff: Garrett Karp (Program Manager), Alice Howe (Program Specialist)
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $20,000 from line item 2.02
(Landscaping) for BrightView Landscaping Services to plant and maintain the new, additional orange
planters to be placed along Milwaukee Ave. this Spring. (19-0201)
MT motions. DG seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
1. Christy Webber Updates
a. MS reported on snow removal updates. Besides some areas of North Ave, snow removal
has gone smoothly.
b. Spring landscaping will begin on April 1st.
c. In the Spring, CWL plans to evaluate the planters on North Ave and break redistribute
some flowers to be placed in empty planters on Division St.
d. MS does not suggest that SSA looks into fall mulching as he said it would not be a
valuable use of resources.
2. Brightview Updates
a. Brightview presented a new contract for Orange Milwaukee Avenue Planters to include
the additional 40 planters to be installed this April.
b. AJ provided photos of damaged planters on North Ave with ideas for replacing the
planters with larger rocks.
c. AJ presented ideas on various ways to add plants to Milwaukee Ave besides trees or the
orange planters, including flower boxes and hanging planters
d. WJ request that both landscaping vendors offer quotes for boulders/rocks for North
Avenue planters
3. Tree Grates on Milwaukee Ave
a. WJ and DG brought up previous discussions and designs for tree grates on Milwaukee
Avenue.
b. Staff will work with Bartlett trees to determine whether we are able to put grates in tree
pits within the SSA
4. Arbor Day
a. WJ requested that staff inventory tree tags & gnome cutouts and well as invoicing and
pricing from last year’s Arbor Day awareness campaign and bring motion to March Clean
& Green meeting.
b. DG and WJ would like to increase the number of tags this year.
5. Cleanslate Updates
a. GK & AH met with Cleanslate staff separately
b. Staff provided “After Dark” walking routes to show that coverage extends beyond
Milwaukee

 6. Cigarette Recycling Cans
a. There are 6 cans in the office that are now ready to be installed. Cleanslate has been
notified and will be installing them this month. They will be taking down the previous
models so staff to clean/inspect and possibly move to new locations.
7. Recycling
a. SK would like to begin a recycling program at Wicker Park Fest this year. DG and WJ
suggested coming up with a desired amount of funding and approaching WPBCC Festival
Committee.
b. WJ suggests the SSA host a drug drop off in conjunction with our current recycling
event.

 