Guide Development Committee
Minutes
January 25, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman (co-chair), Marcy Huttas (co-chair), Suzanne Keers, Michael Lofton, John Paige,
Pamela Maass (executive director), Jessica Wobbekind (Managing Director), Michael Ashkenasi (Program
Specialist)
1.

2.

3.

The committee discussed the Chamber’s Planning, Zoning, Development and Hospitality Committee
support of the LG Development project at 1665 N Milwaukee.
a. JW will invite the GD Committee to PZDH meetings and will present the Master Plan to the
committee
The committee discussed the presenting the Master Plan to the neighborhood and community groups and
the aldermen
a. JW will put together a presentation, start to schedule meetings
b. BN can help present at some meetings
The committee discussed quality of life/safety issues
a. The committee reviewed our talking points
b. The committee reviewed the graffiti abatement rebate program and discussed how to
incorporate quality of life and safety enhancements into the program. Other enhancements
would include:
i. Security rebates
ii. Lighting
iii. Anti-smash security film
MA will work on consolidating these into one program and create one application for a rebate of
up to $1,000 for each type of enhancement

Motion1: to approve up to $10,000 for a quality of life and safety enhancement program rebates from line item
5.05 (General Safety/Security Programs).
MH motions, JP 2nds
c.

The committee discussed producing an educational flyer to inform the community on safety and
quality of life concerns.
Motion 2: to produce an educational safety flyer to distribute and post on the website.
MH motions, SK 2nds
d.

4.

5.

The committee reviewed the Cleanslate “eyes on the street” one-pager. JW will check in with
Brady and work to get a piece that can be shared with the public.

The committee discussed the façade enhancement rebate program. The City has new requirements that
the committee needs to include in the program. The committee plans to address other policies in the
program. The committee agrees to put this program on hold temporarily pending further discussion.
The committee reviewed the final edit of the Market Study update.

Motion 3: to approve the 2016 Market Study update as presented.
6.

The committee reviewed the implementation matrix from the master plan update and discussed:
a. How to encourage pop-ups
b. Design guidelines

 