SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
July 19, 2017, 8:30 am
The Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19 Minutes
Minutes
Attending: Cally Radunzel, Commissioner, Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone Freeman,
Commissioner; Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA; Cynthia
Ryan, RPBA
Absent: Gale Howard, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:35 am by Cally Radunzel.
2. Community & Public Input
There was no community input.
3. Approval of May 17, 2017 Minutes
Could not approve these minutes as Gale Howard, Commissioner & Secretary has not provided minutes
to this meeting.
4. Approval of June 21, 2017 Minutes
Charlotte Walters moved to approve the minutes. Simone Freeman second it. Motion passed.
5. June 2017 Financials
June 2017 financials were reviewed with no questions.
6. Line of Credit Changes
Sandi Price, RPBA explained that per the City of Chicago requirements, RPBA will no longer be using a
line of credit for SSA #19 bills. Deposits to the SSA #19 bank account can only be money collected from
the tax levy. If there is no money in SSA bank account, RPBA will pay the bills. Once money from the levy
comes in, RPBA will be paid back by SSA #19.
7. Approval of Strategic Planning with Facilitator Summur Roberts
It was proposed to have a strategic planning session on the morning of Tuesday, August 29 for four (4)
hours with Summur Roberts, consultant & facilitator. Carrie Sullivan moved to approve Summur Roberts
and strategic planning. Simone Freeman second it. Motion passed.
8. Branding Discussion
There was a discussion whether to continue with Sparkfactor for the Hello Howard campaign or find
another marketing company. Sandi Price, RPBA had email out to commissioners 5 marketing companies
that were collected from the SSA #43 which had issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for marketing
companies. SSA #43 hired Sparkfactor for their branding/marketing.

 Cally Radunzel advocated to keep Sparkfactor as the branding/marketing company since $30,000 had
already spent on them to develop the Hello Howard campaign and the next step was to have them
tweak the campaign. If the SSA changes marketing companies then the SSA starts all over again.
Simon Freeman expressed that the Sparkfactor didn’t really do much work for $30,000 and did not
analyze the business community and used a mock up design for the final. Barry Hoven expressed his
dislike of the Hello Howard campaign and likes the work of A5 Branding & Digital company. The
commissioners would like to have A5 Branding & Digital company attend the next SSA #19 meeting on
Aug. 16, 2017.
There was a general discussion on banners and how effective they are. It was agreed to discuss &
resolve what to do about the marketing /branding companies at the strategic planning session on Aug.
29, 2017.
A survey will be sent to get input from community stakeholders.

9. New Business
Murals
Simone Freeman brought up having more murals in the SSA. Barry Hoven is to check with his property
owner to see if he is willing to have a mural on the west side of his building.
Commissioners
Cynthia Ryan, RPBA brought up that there is an empty seat for a commissioner and asked for
suggestions possible candidates. The by-law states that if a commissioner is absent for 3 consecutive SSA
meetings in a row, they can be considered for immediate resignation. Cally Radunzel spoke to Yasmine
of Edible Arrangements who is interested in participating in the SSA.
Meeting adjorned at 10:15 am. Our next meeting is August 16, 2017.

 