Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, February 20, 2015, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Amona Buechler,
Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner(via telephone); Paul Reise, SSA 19 Manager;
Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff; Gale Howard, public
Absent: Simone Freeman, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:12 a.m.
2. Community and public input
None.
3. Review and Approval of January 2015 Minutes
The commission reviewed the January 2015 minutes. No corrections were requested,
no errors were found nor additional information requested. Motion to approve the
January 2015 minutes as presented. (Walters / Buechler ) Unanimously approved.
4. Programs and Projects
a. Results of planning meeting
Paul reported on meeting outcome. Carolina will promote Hello Howard garden
first year statistics (shared by Lamanda Joy) on RPBA happenings. Commission
would like to see action items from this meeting scheduled throughout the year.
Paul will circulate this spreadsheet to the Commission.
b. BIP Application
Inner Metamorphosis University presented a BIP application for approval.
Motion to approve Inner Metamorphosis University’s request for a 50%
reimbursement for improvements to their storefront windows for a total of
$4,576.50 (Raduenzel / Walters). Unanimously approved.
c. Live, Love, Shop Rogers Park – rebate program
Paul reported rebate program totals. There was a discussion about advertising
of the program, some do not feel it was well advertised. Next year all SSAs plan
on identifying all participating businesses more clearly (posters, decals).
d. Sculpture project
Paul has met with new sculpture artist recommended by Simone. The artist will
submit three designs for the Commission to choose from.
e. Factory Theater
The Factory Theater has moved its opening to the fall of 2015. They will be
hosting the next RPBA networking event in order to introduce them to the
community.
f. Garden

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, February 20, 2015, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Hello Howard garden is full! Peterson Garden Project and RPBA are partnering to
hire a Public Relations specialist to program and market the events at Hello
Howard Garden. Commission would like a visual banner/board placed on garden
fence with event announcements. Paul will research ideas for this
announcement board.
g. Second Mural Location
Paul’s meeting with owner of building on Howard and Sheridan to talk about
logistics involved with painting a mural on his building was rescheduled to next
week. Paul met with Lea and Dustin about location of second mural. They
would prefer not to paint the Howard/Sheridan wall because its size is out of
their working scope. They suggested the wall on 2049 W. Howard building facing
west. Paul will contact building owner to get permission.
h. Billboard on Howard Theater building
There is still no proposal from Jay Johnson.
i.

j.

Holiday Decorations
The Commission requested that Paul present quotes for year-round street tree
lighting by May of 2015. They also requested that he present quotes for holiday
tree lighting and decorations for the 2015-2016 winter season by September of
2015.
Upcoming Events
BizARts Networking with the Factory Theater and Roman Susan Gallery Annex /
February 25, 2015
Chili Cook-Off / March 1, 2015
Reminder that there is Howard Street stakeholder’s meeting every other month
on Monday at 10 a.m. at Wyllie B. White Park.

5. Old Business
The commission would like to receive meeting minutes no later than one week after
meeting.
Mattress store at Glenview Ave. and Howard St. is closing.
6. New Business
a. Commission wants to pay for another year of Chicago Sculpture Exhibit
sculpture; however they would like a different sculpture. Paul will get schedule
for getting selected once again.
b. Charlotte would like to collaborate with Sol Café for upcoming Vivian Meirs
event. This is great marketing for Howard Street.
c. Paul will finalize plans for getting Pumpkin Patch and Holiday tree sales people
on empty lot at Howard and Ashland by August of 2015.
d. Carolina reported that NU students are working on acquiring data from all
Rogers Park businesses to determine businesses’ tech support needs for
advertising.

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, February 20, 2015, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

e. Commission requested that Paul look into making sure there is proper street
signage at intersection located at Howard St., Greenview Ave. and Rogers Ave.
f. SSA 19 Commission requested RPBA organize a commissioner orientation in
order to be clear on the role of SSA commissioners, managers and sole service
providers.
Meeting adjourned at 9:42 a.m.

 