WPB Transportation Committee
Minutes
February 8, 2018
In attendance: Brent Norsman (chair), Joe Hall (co-chair), Lindsay Bailey, Steve Lipe, Odette (new
committee attendee), Pamela Maass (Executive Director), Samantha Choudhury (SSA Program
Manager), Hans Kumler (SSA Program Specialist)
1. The committee reviewed design and costs of installation and maintenance of planters along
Milwaukee Ave provided by Doty and Sons, SSA vendor for planter project.
a. BN requests mock-ups to be displayed for committee once produced to ensure color is
what is expected and evaluate feasibility of graffiti-prevention on planters.
i. SC/HK will work with vendor to have mock-ups provided and check on antigraffiti sealant to be applied to planters to protect against vandalism.
b. Committee votes to approve funding of a total of 30 planters.
2. The committee reviewed Thirst Communication’s proposal for the WPBCC/SSA 33 Wayfinding
project. SC will invite all committee members to 3/8 transportation meeting, where a
brainstorming session will be hosted to help guide selected vendor in the Wayfinding project
design phase.
3. The committee discussed the placement of 28 new SSA bike racks in the community. HK will
check with CDOT to see if they have current requests for racks within SSA 33 district.
4.
5.
6. The committee discussed 2018 planning for 25 additional bike racks to be ordered this month.
a. HK will confirm price for new racks has not increased since last order and confirm with
committee before submitting work order. Additional rack locations will be explored in
early 2018 and necessary permits will be applied for.
b. The committee also discussed the remaining SSA Bike Corral, currently in storage with
vendor Cleanslate. HK will reach out to property owner at 1300 N. Milwaukee to confirm
approval for installing remaining portion of bike corral located here. HK met with snow
removal vendors on 12/14 and reiterated importance of keeping corrals on Milwaukee
Ave. accessible if snow accumulates during winter.
7. 22/92 planter permits applied for along Milwaukee Ave have been approved by BACP to
augment work done through CDOT’s Milwaukee Ave. Pilot Program.
a. HK will continue research for designs and bring to next committee meeting, taking into
consideration seasonal challenges (snow build up), potential damage (vandalism), and
any design regulations (i.e. height restrictions) that will need to be incorporated.
b. HK will also work to develop an RFP for 2018 for a vendor to installation, planting, and
maintenance.
c. SL raised concerns over this project relating to vehicle traffic, specifically at intersections
of Milwaukee/Paulina and Milwaukee/Wabansia. HK will check in with CDOT to see
where the agency is at in collecting data and feedback as part of the pilot program.

 8. SSA received follow up on bench two (2) permits applied for at 1711 W. Division and can
proceed to install here. 16 bench permits are still pending. HK will follow up with city’s PWU unit
to check status on a regular basis and update committee members as necessary.
a. Why Not Iron, the contracted vendor for SSA 33 benches has confirmed invoice for
remaining benches to be made and installed. Committee members already approved
this spending and the invoice will be paid in Dec. 2017. Why Not Iron will store benches
after completion and await remaining permits for installation.
9. Blue Lounge Project—no updates on this time. The committee would like to pursue this project
again starting in the spring 2018.
10. RFI submitted from Selbert Perkins design firm regarding the upcoming Wayfinding project. The
committee discussed details. HK will revise RFP and extend deadline until 1/31/18. HK will seek
additional firms to take on project and distributed RFP accordingly.

 