Minutes from SSA #26 Commission Meeting – April 15, 2015
Location:

Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
1210 W. Rosedale, Chicago, IL, 60660

Purpose of Meeting:

SSA #26 Commissioner’s Meeting

In Attendance:
Commissioners:

Jill Metz, Chairman
Rae Ann Cecrle, B&R Developers
Helen Cameron, Uncommon Ground
John Vranas, VP/Secretary
Jenny Yang, Phoenix Bean Products

Staff:

Katrina Balog, Executive Director, Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
Ally Brisbin, Marketing & Events Coordinator, Edgewater Chamber of
Commerce
Jennifer Hackman, Economic Development Manager, Edgewater
Chamber of Commerce

Public:

Bob Wissmann, The A.C.T. Group
Julieanne Ehre, Pivot Arts

1. Meeting called to order at 2:36 p.m.
2. Adoption of agenda - John moved to adopt the agenda, Rae Ann seconded the motion, and it passed.
3. Presentation and Approval of 2014 Audit – Bob Wissmann from The A.C.T. Group presented a draft
of the 2014 audit. SSA #26 is owed money from TIF funds and staff is looking into how this money was
accrued and how to collect it. John moved to accept the draft audit as present as a clean audit, Helen
seconded, and the motion passed.
4. Approval of February minutes – John moved to approve October minutes, Rae Ann seconded, and it
passed.
5. Presentation of financials - Jennifer presented the financials, no action was required.
6. Approval of Event Proposals
a. Pivot Arts Festival – Julieanne Ehre presented her proposal for funding for the Pivot Arts
Festival.
John moved to approve all funding requests as laid out in the diagram, Jenny seconded, and the motion
passed.

 7. Approval of recommended projects
a. Devon planter railings – Jennifer presented quotes for repairing/replacing the iron railings
around the curbed, in-ground planters on Devon. The commission discussed removing the railings and
not replacing them, and instead investing in nicer plantings. John moved to have Jennifer reach out to
the same companies for a quote to remove the ironwork and increase quality of plantings, Helen
seconded and the motion passed.
b. Custom bike racks – Jennifer presented designs and price quotes for custom branded bike
racks to be installed throughout the district. The commission preferred the round and omega racks. Jill
moved to set a $20,000 cap on spending for bike racks and for staff to move forward with purchasing
decisions, John seconded and the motion passed.
8. Program and Project Updates – Jennifer gave an update on economic development in the district.
9. New Business
a. John requested we look into a tagline for the SSA.
10. Public Input – There was no public input.
11. Adjournment – John moved to adjourn the meeting at 4:46 pm.

 