WPB (SSA #33) Commission Meeting Minutes
Wednesday February 21, 2018
Wicker Park Field House
1425 N. Damen Ave.
In attendance:
Joe Hall (JH)
Rebecca Dohe (RD) arrived 7:15pm
Wayne Janik (WJ)
David Ginople (DG)
Marcy Huttas (MH)
Minutes
1. Call to Order at 7:07 p.m.
2. Introductions by Chair—DG/RD
DG explains to guests in attendance the general guidelines for SSA’s and solicits questions from
audience before the meeting begins.
RD arrives. DG passes the chair to RD.
In attendance: Pamela Maass (Executive Director), Sam Choudhury (SSA Program Manager), Hans
Kumler (SSA Program Specialist), Paul Poi (guest), Anne Poi (guest), Fernando Morena (guest), Chris
Toepfer (guest)
3. Review of January 17, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes made by: WJ; Seconded by: DG
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions.
4. Financial Reports, January 2018, delivered by WJ
Motion to approve the financial reports made by: JH; Seconded by: DG
JH asks – can we clarify why ‘accounts payable’ amount is higher than usual in Jan. ‘18
HK—reviews checks authorized in Jan. ’18 for payment totaling ~$70k
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
5. Chamber of Commerce Report, delivered by PM
Chamber hosted joint mixer with Logan Square Chamber, 2/7 @ Concord Music Hall. It was very well
attended, as was the women’s networking event on 2/15 @ Dynamic Salon of Wicker Park. WPBCC staff
still looking for a host for April’s business networking mixer, since Fonda Frontera abruptly closed this
year.

 WPBCC staff pursuing additional sponsorships for new event, the WPB Wellness & Rejuvenation Crawl,
occurring 4/8.
WPBCC offering new joint-chamber membership rates for businesses interested in both WPBCC and
LSCC.
The chamber officially hired a new farmers market manger for the 2018 season. She started working
Where Magazine will once again produce our Neighborhood Guide in 2018 and will feature WP on the
cover issue of their June magazine, distributed to 100,000+ subscribers across the country. This will
mean the neighborhood guide will be released 1 month later than usual, with a release party to be
scheduled in June to announce the release of the new neighborhood guide. The chamber felt the
tradeoff for exposure compared to a later release date was well worth it.
The chamber will apply for 2 DRAM shop permits for this year’s WP Fest, which has expanded to 3 days
in 2018.
6. Program Manager Report, delivered by SC
Clean and Green: Tree tags have been ordered and to be installed in time for Arbor Day 2018 (4/27) with
5 new “tree facts” to be printed. The tags will also be updated with our partner, Bartlett Tree Experts
logo. The committee will explore options for providing fencing at Mautene Court planters, to protect
plantings from damage. SC has drafted and distributed an RPF for planting, maintenance and install of
30 new planters along Milwaukee Ave in conjunction with the CDOT Milwaukee Ave Pilot Program. HK
confirmed with AN Pritzker Elementary that SSA will host 5 community recycling events in 2018 (3/10,
5/12, 7/14, 9/8, 11/10)
Guide Development: WPB Ambassador Program to be launched this month pending City requirements
are met. To support small businesses, the committee is exploring rental assistance programs and a
legacy lease policy with our local Alderman. Attraction and retention of commercial business and
smaller independent retailers is also being explored by the committee.
Arts: The Workers Cottage public art project by Lynn Basa who won the ‘One Big Thing’ arts competition
is underway. She is currently getting approvals from the city for construction and install. Estimated date
for delivery is by end of June.
Mike Helbing, the Wicker Tree artist has produced another set of drawings to meet installation
requirements by the Parks District.
We are in the final round of hiring for the Arts and Social Media administrator, with the position to be
filled by next week and expected start date end of February. Key projects for the role to manage
including the WPB SSA website Arts Page, Facebook and Instagram, Chicago Sculptural Exhibition (CSE),
Orange Dot/Storefront Arts Activation, sourcing local artists for murals, the water tower above
Continental furniture, beautification of underpasses, research on landmark district.
Promote: Gnomes will be back this year, they will be girl gnomes and they will be announcing the two
public art projects, the CSE sculptures and other significant architectural/arts related initiatives.

 Transportation: We are installing 30 planters as mentioned to tie in with the CDOT Mil. Ave. pilot
program; installing 28 more bike racks and 7 benches – locations are being determined.
We are exploring the installation of a Parklet/People Place on Wood St next to Antique Taco with the
owners. We are looking at underpass beautification and improvements through arts, lighting to help
with safety and beautification at Ashland and Expressway, Division, North Avenue and Western and
Levitt.
Wayfinding RFP has been awarded to Thirst Communication and Design studio just last week. A
workshop with all committee members has been scheduled for March 8th.
7. Reports of Committees
a. Executive, delivered by RD
Motion 1: On behalf of the Promote Committee, to approve funding not to exceed $5,000 from line item
1.10 (community grants) to fund Collaboraction’s 2018 Community Grant Application.
Motion to approve made by: RD; Seconded by: WJ
JH asks—what specifically is this grant to fund?
HK answers—Collaboraction theater has applied for this grant in the past to fund annual
programming, this is the case again in 2018.
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
Motion 2: To approve funding not to exceed $30,000 from line item 5.05 (general safety and security
programs) to fund WPB Ambassador program.
Motion to approve made by: RD; Seconded by: WJ
JH asks for details on the WPB Ambassador program.
MH answers with details on the program, aimed at increasing ‘eyes on the street’ along
SSA commercial corridors as well as providing funding for qualified neighborhood
employees to act as stewards of the business district. The goal of the program is to foster
a sense of community between businesses and encourage more visitors to explore the
neighborhood
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
b. Promote WPB, delivered by RD.
RD explains the ‘Ornage Gnome’ project, a 2016 SSA project, to the guests attending tonight’s
meeting. Gnomes are to be ordered and distributed around the community to draw attention to new art
installations in WPB, as well as highlight the community’s architecturally significant features. The
Promote Committee is reviewing the storyboard provided by Annual Report vendor, Teska Associates.
RD has asked SSA to distribute copies to all sub-committees for review.

 c. Transportation, delivered by JH.
The committee discussed finding locations for additional bike racks, benches, and planters to be
ordered in 2018. HK/SC will contact CDOT for recommendations and follow up with results, prior to
installation.
d. Guide Development, delivered by MH.
The committee reviewed the WPB Ambassador program policy and application documents at
Feb. sub-committee meeting, additional feedback requested to be received by SSA no later than 2/23.
PM notes that conversations are being hosted by WPBCC/SSA with local aldermanic offices and 14th
district police to inform them of the program and anticipated start date.
e. Clean and Green, delivered by WJ.
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve spending $750.00 from line item 3.01 (garbage and
recycling material program) to reserve A.N. Pritzker parking lot at 2020 W. Evergreen for 5 community
recycling events in 2018 to take place on March 10th, May 12th, July 14th, September 8th, November
10th.
Motion to approve made by: WJ; Seconded by: DG.
No Discussion
All in favor, no opposed, no abstentions
f.

Arts, delivered by DG.

The committee has requested copies of updated drawings be provided by artist Lynn Basa,
creator of the Worker Cottage project. Discussion continues regarding having the SSA hire a contract
lawyer for assistance with legal aspects of contract negotiations. This is something the SSA has not
previously attempted, but feel would be beneficial in operating more efficiently.
8. Questions & Announcements (5 minutes)
MH asks—has the SSA followed up on posting city ordained snow removal guidelines for business
owners and residents?
HK answers—yes, SC added social media posts with links to city resources pointing to snow removal
responsibilities for businesses, property owners, and residents.
MH—SSA should consider distributing door hangers for businesses in SSA in 2018 (winter) that provides
this information, as to send a clear message to all community members regarding responsibilities.
WJ—suggests SSA reach out to aldermanic offices for copies of city policies regarding sidewalk snow
removal.
WJ—acknowledges and congratulates guest in attendance, Paul Poi, an SSA commissioner for
Chinatown’s new SSA.
9. Adjournment Motion

 Adjournment at 8:23 pm.

Motion to approve made by: 
Seconded by: JH
Passes unanimous/y

