Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Commissioners Meeting
Wednesday, March 05, 2014 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Minutes
Attending: Al Goldberg, Treasurer; Chris Johnson, Vice Chairperson; Dorothy Milne, Secretary;
Kevin Owings, Commissioner; Ana Bermudez (SSA #24 Manager), Carolina Juarez (RPBA Staff).
Absent: Jim McHale, Chairperson
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 9:11 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None
3. Appoint Vice Chair, Secretary and Treasurer
Motion to appoint Chris Johnson as Vice Chairperson of SSA #24 Commission (Owings
/Milne). Unanimously approved.
Motion to appoint Al Goldberg as Treasurer of SSA #24 Commission (Milne/ Owings).
Unanimously approved.
Motion to appoint Dorothy Milne as Secretary of SSA #24 Commission (Milne/ Owings).
Unanimously approved.
4. Review and approval of February 2014 minutes
The minutes were reviewed. No changes were requested. Motion to approve the
February 2014 minutes (Johnson/Goldberg). Unanimously approved.
5. Review end-of-year Financials - 2013
The Commission reviewed the financials and discussed the line of credit.
6. 2014 Workplan and Budget Review
Commission reviewed and learned about financials and budget. Some of the
questions/concerns included:
• Did Equalized Assessed Value decrease? Yes, therefore changes/cuts need to be
made to budget.
• What is SSA 24 line of credit secured against? RPBA
• What is the amount for Special Events specifically for? Ana explained the
sponsorship for Glenwood Sunday Market, Clark Street Festival and Glenwood
Ave. Arts Festival. Commission requested a budget of each event. Ana will send
these via email. Commission discussed providing sponsorships after events,
amounts depending of what was used.
• Snow Removal contract – Ana explained how the contract works and that it is a
supplemental service. Kevin suggested we keep track of the businesses that are
NOT shoveling their sidewalk and follow up with them about their responsibility.
• Landscaping – Commission discussed options for decreasing amount spent this
year. Perhaps Gethsemane in Edgewater can donate plants to SSA? Ana

 •

•
•
•

•

•
•

explained Earnfare crew will do landscaping for spring and Patch Landscaping
will do summer.
Holiday decorations – Where did ribbons go after de-installation? Can we reuse and store? Is this a way in which the commission can cut spending? Ana
will revisit this topic with Patch Landscaping.
Parking lot contract explained.
Business Improvement Program explained.
Security cameras – Ana explained only one camera is currently functioning.
Commission discussed the possibility of getting rid of them all together
depending on need.
Lease – there was a question about percentage of lease for the SSA and
proportions to each SSA. Sandi stepped in to explain that the percentage is
based on a set rate divided by amount of space use.
Personnel discussion- Commission was informed of staff time for the SSA and
their projects.
Chris Johnson requested an itemized budget for 2014.

7. New Business:
Casino Night is April 24, 2014 at 6 p.m. at Mayne Stage all commissioners are invited.
Creative Chicago Expo is March 14 and 15, 2014 at Cultural Center
Al is looking for a place where there can be a sewing workshop
Meeting adjourned at 10:52 a.m.

 