SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wed., October 17, 2018, 8:30 am
TJam Kitchen, 1418 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Simone
Freeman, Commissioner; Gale Howard, Commissioner, Cynthia Ryan, RPBA SSA Manager
Conference Call In: Barry Hoven, Commissioner
Guests: Patrick Casey of A5 Branding & Digital; Patrice Coine, Resident; Richard Brudnika,
Resident , Amona Buechler, Resident

The meeting was called to order at 8:45 am by Cynthia Ryan
I. Community & Public Input
Amona Buechler commented on the Howard Street garden and would like to ask the new group
that has taken over the front part of the garden to plant more flowers if possible. She also
mentioned that the clock at Rogers & Greenview is still not working correctly and to request to
put back the streetscape benches back by the clock and across the street in front of Lost Eras.
Charlotte Walters of Lost Eras agrees and has requested those benches to be put back to the
Alderman’s office. The Alderman’s office is aware of the clock and trying to get it fixed. Cynthia
will bring up the benches in a meeting with Alderman’s office.
Patrice Coin, Richard Brudnika, Residents and Charlotte Walters of Lost Eras talked about
homeless people sleeping behind Lost Eras on the back of the building that faces Rogers Ave.
and also sleeping where the garbage is kept by Eddy’s Food Mart on Rogers Ave. Charlotte
Walters of Lost Eras would like to utilize the Business Improvement Program (BIP) for a wrought
iron fence to be placed on Rogers Ave to prevent people from sleeping and starting fires. Carrie
Sullivan moved to approve Lost Eras to move forward with a BIP application. Gale Howard
seconded it. Motion passed. Cynthia Ryan to check with Eddy’s Food Mart and provide BIP
application (if applicable). Cynthia provided Charlotte with a BIP application and a reminder of
the necessary documents to provide for approval.
II. Approval of Minutes for September 20, 2018, August 16, 2018 (Amended), August 10, 2018
(Amended) and June 20, 2018 (Amended)

 September 20, 2018

Carrie Sullivan moved to approve minutes, Gale Howard
seconded it. Motion passed.

August 16, 2018

Carrie Sullivan moved to approve amended minutes, Gale Howard
seconded it. Motion passed.
Gale Howard moves to approve amended minutes, Carrie Sullivan
seconded it. Motion passed.

August 10, 2018

III. Approval of January-September 2018 Financials
The financials were reviewed with no questions. Charlotte Walters moved to approve the
financials, Gale Howard seconded it. Motion passed.

IV. A5 Branding & Digital
A5 Branding & Digital provided a report that new banners have been installed this week and
discussed Howard Street Facebook report. Howard Street Facebook has had a 19% increase in
page likes from 590 likes to 700 likes. Total page growth (number of times any content from
your page or about your page entered a person’s screen) has increased from 9,905 impressions
to 19,200 total impressions for 192% increase. The number of page engagement has increased
by 272 percent (the number of people who engaged with your page). A5 & Cynthia will be
handing out flyers up on Howard St regarding the new branding on Friday, October 19, 2018.
A5 discussed next steps and additional services with pricing quotes. Commissioners approved
the following:
Google Ad Words: A5 fees $1000/month with Google Ad Words Fees $500/month
Social Media Consulting A5 Fees $1000/month with $500/month (increased from $100/month)
Create Digital Ads for Facebook/Google Ad Words A5 fees $3,000
Carrie Sullivan moved to approve the above. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed.
SSA will decline doing the Retail Window Clings, Brand Standards and Video at this time and
re-visit this at a later date.
There was a discussion to have A5 do stories on all different businesses within the SSA and to
provide benchmarks for the website & facebook. The goal for next year is to have 2000
followers. We would also like to implement Instagram. We could have a co-op program where
businesses pay a fee and the SSA would match it to do a specific promotion of the business.
V. Holiday Lights
Lights will be installed by Illuminight and will try to match the Evanston side with LED lights this
year. Also snowmen lights to be added to the garden fence. Cynthia to check if Snowmen
available.
VI. Chalk the Block Festival 2019
The RFP was issued to five event vendors and due date is Nov. 5, 2018. Cynthia asked that
the events committee meet to discuss the RFPs, budget and to discuss other events for 2019.
Events committee comprises of Carrie Sullivan, Gale Howard, Barry Hoven and Simon
Freeman. Cynthia will set up a meeting for this committee.
VII. Special Orders from Prior Meetings

 Charlotte Walters moved to have some new officers for the commission and moved to elect
Carrie Sullivan as Chair replacing Barry Hoven. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed.
Carrie Sullivan moved to approve Charlotte Walters as Vice Chair. Simone Freeman seconded
it. Motion passed.
Carrie Sullivan moved to have Simone Freeman as Treasurer. Gale Howard seconded it.
Motion passed.
Gale Howard to remain as Secretary. Charlotte Walters moved to approve Gale Howard as
Secretary. Carrie Sullivan seconded it. Motion passed.
Barry Hoven stated that he will file a complaint with the Illinois Department of Whistleblowers
regarding the August 10, 2018 meeting that the commissioners had with him.
VIII. New Business
Carrie Sullivan reported that a new play, “The Darkness after Dawn” is opening on Oct. 26th and
her gala, The Shameless Ball will take place on Nov. 8th. Tickets are on sale.
Cynthia Ryan reported that there is a potential new brew pub to open in Spring of 2019 at 1617
W. Howard between The Factory Theater & Sol Café.
IX. Adjournment
Meeting was adjourned 10:20 am.
X. Next meeting
Next meeting scheduled for Wed., Nov. 14th at 8:30 am. Location to be determined.

 