Guide Development Committee Minutes
Tuesday, March 12th, 2019 8:10 – 9:35 AM
Goddess & The Grocer – 1649 N. Damen Ave.
In attendance: Marcy Huttas (Committee Chair), Brent Norsman (Voting member), John Paige (Voting
member)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Specialist)
Guests: Aaron Bilgin (Rebate Applicant – Standard Bar & Grill), Jim Luchette (NHS Intern)
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $4,320.00 from line item (Façade Enhancement
Programs) for Standard Bar & Grill’s rebate application for the replacement of windows at 1332 N. Milwaukee Ave.
upon further review of their installation process to determine if they obtained the proper permits and/or approval
from Landmarks. (19-0210)
BN motions. JP seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Discussion:
• Staff will look into the permitting/Landmarks with AB before the Executive Committee meeting.
• BN suggests that if they did not consult Landmarks Commission, we cannot fund work being done in
Milwaukee Avenue Landmark District
• AB can submit his security camera invoice for a separate safety rebate application
1. Results of Poll for 2019 Initiatives

Objective One:
• Get involved with local organizations (WPC, BCO, etc.) who review development plans
• Redistribute our Master Plan to these groups, Aldermanic offices, and Sterling Bay (and
Lincoln Yards stakeholders)
Objective Two:
• Business directory
o MH suggests that this initiative needs to be attached to a comprehensive promotional
campaign to give it focus – this can be a cross-committee initiative with Promote
Committee
• Marketing/promotional campaign directed at the residents of WPB
o BN suggest “Get Out” as the new campaign phrase (to contrast 2019 “Get Off”
campaign)
Objective Four:
• Partner with Alderman to encourage LMI housing, particularly for seniors and artists
o SSA should be in contact with Alderman and ensuring they are sending development
plans to the Chamber’s planning and zoning committee.
o BN suggests we request a zoning amendment to allow two flats in WPB residential
areas (although this does not directly relate to SSA corridors)
• Partnership with local housing organizations to promote affordable housing
o MH suggests promoting services such as NHS’s grant and loan programs
o BN suggests a potential home buying/ownership conference open to the community

 2. SSA/Guide Development & Lincoln Yards

a. JP suggests an addendum to our Master Plan to consider Lincoln Yards and the new
infrastructure surrounding it
b. BN suggests sending another copy of our 2016 Master Plan to the architects of the project

 