Transportation Committee Minutes
Thursday, March 14, 2019 8:30 AM – 10:45 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: John Hall (Committee Chair), John Paige (Voting member), Brett Norsman (Voting
member), David Ginople (SSA Chair),
Guests: Bud Rodecker (Vendor – Thirst), Mary Tamminga (Non-voting member, Polish Triangle Coalition)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. Wayfinding / Thirst Updates
a. BR presented on the final prices for the kiosks, signs and art plaques
i. BR will look into pricing for anti-graffiti film on the plaques and signs
ii. BR will also secure a contract with Poblocki that will be contingent upon the SSA
receiving approval from the City to move forward
b. Staff will send in final language for art plaques and Poblocki can begin production
i. Staff will look into Cleanslate or another local company to install the plaques
2. Bikes
a. CDOT installed 28 SSA bike racks within the last week
b. GK discusses the option of placing the bike corral in front of The Flat Iron building into
the slip lane across the street
i. DG and BN recommend against this
c. Now that all bike racks in store have been installed, committee discussed motioning for
new racks to install through CDOT later in 2019
i. BN points out that more bike rack orders were approved in 2018 and maybe
2017, but GK suggests that we re-motion for it to come out of 2019 budget for
tracking purposes
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $15,000 from line item 3.04 (Bicycle
Enhancement Programs) to purchase 28 SSA bike racks to be installed in 2019. (19-0211)
BN motions. JP seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
3. Benches
a. There are currently three empty permitted locations (although one of them seems
impractical)
b. GK is still trying to confirm if Why Not Iron has any of our benches in storage
c. GK suggests that we may need a couple more locations to permit depending on how
many are in storage
4. Planters/streetscaping on other streets
a. GK recapped discussion with senior transportation planner at CDOT and reiterated that
SSA 33 would like to be kept informed of upcoming resurfacing and bump out projects
in order to budget/plan for street furniture orders i.e. the planters on Milwaukee Ave.
5. Ongoing discussions
a. A “Look both ways” Campaign – SSA could stencil this onto crosswalks

 b. Lights strung over people spaces – AH received a quote from Illuminights and will
discuss this more with the business/property owners.
c. Parklets – Staff will contact Super Fine Studios for this.
d. Wraps for planters – AH will have a quote for Executive Committee
e. JH suggest we look into air quality monitors for a future project
i. He also suggests we push for raised walkways on Milwaukee Ave.

 