Howard Street at the Lake: A destination where its history, art and culture come alive.
SSA #19 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wed., April 18, 2018, 8:30 am
Urban Warrior Fitness, 1546 W. Howard St.
Minutes
In Attendance: Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Carrie Sullivan, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters,
Commissioner; Gale Howard, Commissioner; Cynthia Ryan, SSA #19 Manager, Sandi Price,
RPBA
Phone Conferenced In: Simone Freeman, Commissioner
Guests: Patrick Casey of A5 Branding & Digital; Toni Duncan of Beat 24 Police District; Matt
Ephraim of Willye White Park Advisory Committee

The meeting was called to order at 8:40 am by Cynthia Ryan.
Community & Public Input
Toni Duncan of Beat 24 Police District shared May 5th from 2-4pm is neighborhood clean up and
June 30th is the Summer Kick Off from 1-3pm.
Matt Ephraim of Willye White Park Advisory Committee shared with us their plans for Summer
Solstice event they are having on June 21, 2018 and perhaps a blues music event in September
2018. He asked for help in promoting these events and perhaps sponsorship.
Also there will be a rotating sculpture garden in Triangle Park in conjunction with the park district
on display for two years.
He asked about moving the bus stop bench by the Howard garden due to people hanging out
on bench and drinking.
2017 Financial Audit
Sandi Price, Executive Director of Rogers Park Business Alliance presented the 2017 SSA #19
financial audit report. There is a savings of $98,972. No further questions. Barry Hoven moved
to approve the 2017 financial audit, Carrie Sullivan seconded it. Motion passed unanimously.
A5 Branding Update
Patrick Casey. See attached plan. There was a discussion to narrow the two branding concepts
down to one concept. Both concepts A & F were presented to Alderman Moore, Alderman
Rainey of Evanston, displayed at Sol Café for community input. These concepts will be shown
at the Factory Theater and presented to Howard Street Business Association (businesses
located on the Evanston side of Howard). Concept A which is Howard Street is Chicago’s Edge

 and Howard Street is Evanston’s Edge was chosen as the final concept with the addition of
“where you can be you” into the display ads. Barry Hoven moved to approve concept A pending
feedback from the Factory Theater. Charlotte Walters seconded it. Carrie Sullivan opposed it.
Motion passed. An SSA committee will be formed to review the 2018 SSA budget and the
marketing budget to determine how much money can be spent in 2018 for branding &
marketing. They will meet before the next SSA meeting on May 16, 2018.
Chair Position Open
Cally Radunzel, Commissioner resigned as of April 4, 2018. Carrie Sullivan nominated Barry
Hoven as Chair. Barry Hoven nominated Simone Freeman, however Simone declined. Charlotte
Walters moved to approve Barry Hoven as Chair. Simone Freeman seconded it. Motion passed
unanimously.
Approval of Feb. 21, 2018 Minutes
Barry Hoven moved to approve the minutes. Charlotte Walters seconded it. Motion passed
unanimously.
Approval of March 21, 2018 Minutes
Carrie Sullivan moved to approve the minutes. Charlotte Walters seconded it. Motion passed
unanimously.
Art Sculpture Update
The art sculpture will be refinished and repainted with exterior paint to withstand the winters.

Next meeting is scheduled for Wed, May 16, 2018, 8:30 am at Urban Warrior Fitness.
Meeting adjourned at 10:00 am.

 