Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Commissioners Meeting
Thursday, February 5, 2014 10 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Commissioner; Jim McHale, Commissioner; Dorothy Milne,
Commissioner; Kevin Owings, Commissioner; Kimberly Bares, Place Consulting; Ana Bermudez
(SSA #24 Manager), Carolina Juarez (RPBA Staff).
1. Welcome
Meeting was called to order at 10:05 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None
3. Review and approval of Bylaws
Ana reviewed content of commissioner’s introductory packet. Commission reviewed Bylaws.
Kevin Owings pointed out a discrepancy in bylaws regarding amount of time one is eligible to
talk in meetings. Kimberly Bares recommended the following:
• Change Chairman to Chairperson
• Add “agents” to Article II, Section 4.0
• The commission should appoint the following officers: Chair, Vice Chair,
Secretary and Treasurer
• The commission should identify an expert in Robert’s Rules and/or Open
Meetings Act within the commission
• Article II, Section 2.01 should read: Any person or group wishing to address an
item on the agenda shall be given an opportunity to speak at the beginning of
each regular meeting where all input from the public shall be heard at such time.
• In Article II, Section 3.0.1 insert number 14 to read: …telephone 14 days before
the next meeting.
• The commission should not change scheduled meetings. If so a notice with the
new date needs to be published 10 days in advance
• Commissioners should not be absent from meetings 3 consecutive times or
he/she will be asked to resign as commissioner as bylaws state. If a
commissioner cannot be present they may call into meeting and still be counted
as present
• If a closed session is in need the meeting should be recorded
Ana will check with City of Chicago about commissioner terms because some commissioners
have different duration than others. Commission will have Quorum once there are 3 people
present. Kimberly clarified that after initial term (3 years) as commissioner, following terms will
be for 2 years. Regarding Robert’s Rules and OMA, Ana will send more information to
commissioners and will see if there is anyone at the City of Chicago who can come train the
commission. Motion to approve bylaws as recommended (Milne/ McHale). Unanimously
approved.
4. Appoint Chair
Motion to appoint Jim McHale as Chair of SSA 24 Clark/Morse/ Glenwood Commission
(Johnson/ Milne). Unanimously approved.

 5. Meeting Calendar
The commission decided to meet monthly on the first Wednesday of the month. Next meeting
will be Wednesday, March 5, 2014 at 9 a.m. at RPBA office.
6. Workplan and Budge Review
Ana explained to commission process of financials. As of November 2013, $39,000 had been
taken from line of credit. SSA 24 is currently waiting for 1st installment of tax payments.
Commission asked to learn details about budget and “where the money goes”. Ana went
through budget and Workplan and explained the cuts that were made because of lack of funds.
Kimberly explained the SSA hires a CPA who takes care of checks and balances and the process
of SSA financials. Ana summarized Workplan and Kimberly went into detail about Snow
Removal contract for 2013/2014 season. Ana summarized Schedule “A” of financials. Chris
Johnson asked if only Al Goldberg used to see the financials (treasurer during the first 10 years
of the SSA)? All commissioners receive financials before meetings and a hard copy during every
meeting. The Commission asked to include dates of programs in agenda.
7.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Program and Project Updates
Glenwood Sunday Market – Tabled for next meeting
Parking Lot - Tabled for next meeting
Business Improvement Fund BIP - Tabled for next meeting
Mile of Murals - Ana spoke about murals and the plan to finish the project by 2017.
Celebrate Clark Street Festival - Tabled for next meeting
Rogers Park Arts Alliance - Tabled for next meeting
Holiday Rebate - Tabled for next meeting
Holiday Decorations - Tabled for next meeting

8. New Business:
None.
Meeting adjourned at 11:06 a.m.
Next meeting, Wednesday, March 5, 2014 at 9 a.m. at RPBA, 1448 W. Morse Ave.

 