Arts Committee Minutes
March 26, 2019 9:10 AM – 10:40 AM (April Meeting)
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: David Ginople (Chair), Darien Hallagan (Voting member), Carron Little (Voting member),
Alma Weiser (Voting member), Dan Murphy (Voting member)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. Jordan’s report – Jordan is out of town and will report again next month
a. Committee requests that artist’s RFPs are directly on the SSA webpage
2. Chicago Sculpture Exhibition
a. DG suggests that we submit all final locations and votes for CSE 2019 today
b. Only 4 out of 10 locations will be on North Avenue for now, but Arts Committee will
consider preparing planter boxes for future sculptures to be curated by SSA and/or
purchased from previous year CSE installations
c. GK presented the map of the 10 locations for 2019
d. The committee reviewed the top picks from the original CSE submissions and finalized
the list of the top 15 requests
3. Window Works updates
a. SSA staff working with the owner of 1397 N. Milwaukee Ave. as a potential Window
Works location (could possibly fit multiple artists if the owner chooses)
b. DG suggests it might look better to have one artist but we can leave it up to the owner
c. Hi-Style might be interested in displaying art work from WW artists (as mentioned at
Chamber Board meeting)
i. Guide Development Committee will need to decide whether non-vacant
storefronts are able to participate in program
4. Wicker Park Fest Arts Area 2019
a. The RFP is live and closes April 19th
5. Wayfinding kiosks
a. DH suggests we reach out to our approved muralists (staff notes that we will need a
separate RFP and have to ask them to re-submit)
b. CL suggests this could be a more interactive experience, rather than just photography or
a mural
c. CL and DG suggest proposals must relate to the neighborhood and shouldn’t be as
abstract as some of our other art projects
d. The committee agreed to fund $1,000 per artist image for the kiosks.
e. DG would like a finalized RFP by the next committee meeting in May (April 23).
i. The committee will motion for the funding at that meeting
ii. The budget for this project will have to consider maintenance and installation
for the art

2019 Arts Committee Schedule
April 23
May 28
June 25
August 27
September 24
October 22
November 26

 