Transportation Committee Minutes
Thursday, October 11, 2018 8:40am- 10:50am
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N Ashland Ave.
In Attendance: Brent Norsman (Chair), John Paige (voting member), Lindsay Bayley (voting member),
Alice Howe (SSA Program Specialist), Pamela Maass (WPBCC Executive Director), Bud Rodecker (Thirst)
1. We will use the same design/format from the art plaque designs from Thirst for our “Window
Works” program – maybe an orange sign with black lettering.
a. Bud will provide mock-ups to see if pink or orange lettering looks best with stainless
steel
2. Thirst will send over a spreadsheet with signage messages for SSA to review.
3. SSA will be provided a template for the kiosks maps so it can be easily replaced and fabricated
by other sign companies.
4. LB suggests we work with Alderman Moreno to remove metered spaces along Milwaukee Ave.
to create parklets.
a. BN suggests we aim to create 5-6 parklets by next year. We could possibly partner with
surrounding coffee shops/businesses to maintain areas.
5. SSA would like to increase the amount of orange planters along Milwaukee Ave. and onto
Damen north of North Ave.
a. Possibly adding bump outs close to the 606 and north of the trail to slow traffic and
beautify the area.
6. Committee agrees we should turn dead-end roads, specifically next to Antique Taco at 1360 N.
Milwaukee, into a people space with lights strung above.
a. AH will reach out to companies who do these projects.
7. Add “Walk to Work” on future agendas for a spring project
8. AH will locate two additional spots for bike bumps at Western and Division Blue Line stops. We
have already secured a location near the Damen stop with La Colombe.
a. SSA staff will find decals to add a logo onto the pumps
9. Jordan Miller will work on collecting a quantity of murals to order a larger quantity of plaques at
once.
10. BN suggests we add plaques to historic buildings, consulting Elaine Coorens and John Paige to
add historical facts.
Motion 1: To approve spending not to exceed $20,000 for additional orange planters to be placed along
Milwaukee Ave and north Damen Ave. (18-1002)
BN motions. JP seconds. All in favor. Motion Passes.
Motion 2: To approve spending not to exceed $2,500 for three Dero bike pumps to be placed at the
Division, Damen and Western Blue Line stops. (18-1003)
BN motions, JP seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Motion 3: To approve spending not to exceed $15,000 for additional SSA branded benches. (18-1004)
BN Motions. JP seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Motion 4: To approve spending not to exceed $15,000 for branded and non-branded bike racks. (181005)
BN motions. JP seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.

 