Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday March 1, 2017 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

Commission Meeting Minutes
Attending: Chris Johnson, Chairperson; Dorothy Milne, Secretary; Al Goldberg, Treasurer; Wally
Andersen, Commissioner; Sandi Price, Executive Director of RPBA; Carolina Juarez; RPBA staff;
Irene Bermudez, Member of the public
Absent: None
1. Welcome
Meeting began at 9:20 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
Introduced Irene Bermudez from Chicago Math & Science Academy, she is applying to
become Commissioner of SSA #24.
3. 2017 January Minutes
Commission reviewed 2017 January Minutes. No changes, corrections nor additional
information were requested. Motion to approve 2017 January Minutes (Milne
/Goldberg). Unanimously approved.
4. 2017 Financial Goals
Carolina and Commission discussed their financial goals for the year.
5. BIP Application/6601 N. Clark Street
The Commission asked that some revisions be made to the owner's application: refrain
from using LED illumination, instead consider a lightbox option; the two estimates
should be for the same design; the owner should provide a copy of all applicable City
permits, including Aldermanic approval if applicable. After these revision have been
made the Commission will make a decision.
6. Manager’s Updates- Carolina gave updates on the following:
• Landscaping 2017 Contract- the planters along Clark Street will follow a
different contract as the original planters – they will be planted to a total of 3
seasons in order to save money.
• Clark Street Revitalization- Sandi gave overview of plan. A consultant has been
hired. The plan will take its course from now until the end of October. Wally will
be the Commission representative in the Plan’s Steering Committee
• Live, Love, Shop Rogers Park – the program was a success. There was a problem
with some people abusing the rules. RPBA came up with a solution to avoid this
from happening the following year.
• Cinco de Mayo- Some business owners in the GAAD area would like to
collaborate to put together an event for 5 de mayo. Carolina will help with
marketing the event.
• PINs with property taxes not paid in 2016- Carolina is doing some research to
find out which property owners are not paying their taxes in order to maximize
the SSA Budget.
• New Businesses: Empirical Brewery & Tap Room, SmackDab, Mary’s Martini Bar,
Morse/Wayne Development
7. Old Business
• None

 Clark/Morse/Glenwood Special Service Area #24
Wednesday March 1, 2017 - 9 a.m.
RPBA’s Office – 1448 W. Morse Ave.

8. New Business
• Al Goldberg announced that Burrows Moving is for Sale
• The Commission would like to be informed in advance of meeting visitors,
Carolina will make sure to send meeting agenda to Chair in advance of meeting.
Meeting was adjourned at 10:12 a.m. (Milne /Andersen)
NEXT MEETING is May 3, 2017 at 9 a.m.

 