Clean & Green Committee
Monday, March 4th, 2019 – 9:05am-10:40am
Janik’s Cafe - 2011 W. Division St.
In attendance: Wayne Janik (Committee Chair), David Ginople (SSA Chair), Mary Tamminga (Voting
member), Steve Jensen (Voting member)
Guests: Stephanie Katsaros (Vendor – Bright Beat), Matthias Scheidler (Vendor – Christy Webber), Lisa
Kidd (Vendor – Cleanslate), Brett Keeshin (Resident)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $10,000 from line item 2.02
(landscaping) to purchase additional tree tags and orange gnome cut-outs for Arbor Day, April 26, 2019
through the Summer. (19-0209)
MT motions. SJ seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Discussion: DG suggests we zip tie the orange gnomes to trees.
Holiday Decorations
•

Staff will put up RFP for holiday snowflakes

Bright Beat’s Proposal for WPF
•

DG updated the committee on the Chamber’s decision to not move forward with Bright Beat’s
recycling program.

Large rocks for North Ave. planters
•
•

MS shared his suggestions for filling the planters
Staff will release an RFP this month for this

Snow Removal update
•
•

Cleanslate and Christy Webber are both at 39.6 inches of their 48-inch contract
The committee will approve additional funding if snowfall exceeds the contracts

Trees
•

Bartlett Trees
o Erik will provide updates and quotes for tree removal
o He will be waiting until the ash trees have bloomed to determine which ones to remove
– the City of Chicago requires a tree to be 51% dead before they will approve its
removal.

Plants
•

Christy Webber Update
o 2019 Landscaping contract for North Avenue planters contract is set to begin on April
15th but MS will begin work earlier if it’s warm

 o

•

MS plans to prune the North Ave. rose bushes and begin filling in planters on Division St.
and perennials for Metzger Court
Bright View Update
o Andy will bring planting options for orange Milwaukee Avenue planters to march
Executive Committee meeting

Trash
•

•

•

Cigarette Trash Can updates
o Cleanslate has installed 6 new receptacles
o SSA staff inventoried and cleaned old receptacles and determined that 4 of them were
still usable (Cleanslate will re-install those shortly) so we are now at the same total
number (10) as before
o Staff will bring a quote for additional receptacles for April meeting
Cleanslate Update
o On April 15th, they will begin liter service 6 days a week – they will not be servicing the
area on Thursdays
o They do not service the area on the 4th of July, Christmas, Thanksgiving or New Years.
After Dark updates
o Cleanslate will continue to service the area year-round.
o

o

The program is Fridays and Saturdays 6pm - 10pm
▪ Western - Courtland to Shakespeare
▪ Ashland – Division to North Ave
▪ Milwaukee – Ashland to Leavitt
▪ Division – Ashland to Leavitt
▪ North – Ashland to Leavitt
▪ Damen- Schiller to Bloomingdale
Staff will reach out to Cleanslate about servicing the Division St. planters this Spring.

Recycling
•

Community Shredding and E-recycling this Saturday, March 9th at A.N. Pritzker Elementary
School (2020 W. Evergreen)

2019 Clean & Green Committee Schedule
April 1
May 6
June 3
July 1
September 2
October 7
November 4
December 2

 