WPB Transportation Committee
Minutes
October 12, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman (Chair), Joe Hall (co-Chair), Lindsay Bailey, Pamela Maass (Managing
Director), Michael Ashkenasi (Program Specialist)
1. The committee discussed the Milwaukee Ave pilot project
a. The taxi stand has been moved but the taxis seem to be unaware and are still lining up
at the Polish Triangle. The point of moving the stand to Ashland was to create a
dedicated bus lane on the Milwaukee side of the Triangle, and to make cycling through
this space a little safer. However, not much we can do since CDOT doesn’t have a real
enforcement mechanism, so we will start to send pictures to the 2nd Ward office and ask
them to get involved in enforcement.
b. Planters- the staff has had another setback with the permit process and is very
frustrated. The Public Way Use (PWU) Unit at BACP/CDOT literally sent the whole
permit application back because we had letters of support from the 1st/32nd wards, but
not the aldermen’s signatures on the permit application itself. MA is working on getting
the signatures and will re-submit the application. Planters will not be installed until the
spring anyway at this point.
2. The fence on North Ave at Wolcott has been damaged, cost for repair from Why Not Iron is
$1,587.50.
Motion: to approve funding to repair the planter fence at the northeast corner of North Avenue and
Wolcott Ave. in an amount not to exceed $1,587.50 from line item 2.05 (streetscape elements).
JH motions, LB seconds. All in favor.

3. Bench permits are on hold because our overall acct. with PWU has a hold on it, due to some
permit renewals from 2014 for trash & recycling cans that were never received by the city. We
have re-submitted the necessary permit renewals and will continue to chase the city to have the
holds removed. The other bench permits in the 2nd Ward are still pending the alderman’s
signature, and PM will continue to work on this.
4. Blue Lounge Project- Cleanslate is happy to set tables/chairs out for us as part of their regular
work schedule (morning/afternoon). MA asked Vanessa Irizarry at CDOT’s Make Way for People
program to confirm if this is acceptable. We also offered tables/chairs to Katherine Darnstadt
again, for Mautene Court.
5. Wayfinding – PM brought up wayfinding as an item that was discussed earlier in the year. The
committee suggests putting out an RFP for firms that could take care of designing innovative
wayfinding icons (kiosks, banners, etc.) for us. MA will work on RFP wording and we will try to
find a firm by the end of the year.

 