Minutes from SSA #26 Commission Meeting – June 8, 2016
Location:

Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
1210 W Rosedale, Chicago IL 60660

Purpose of Meeting:

SSA #26 Commissioner’s Meeting

In Attendance:
Commissioners:

Jill Metz, Chairman
Rae Ann Cecrle, B&R Developers
Helen Cameron, Uncommon Ground
John Vranas, Choiros and Vranas
Jenny Yang, Phoenix Bean Products

Staff:

Katrina Balog, Executive Director, Edgewater Chamber of
Commerce
Jennifer Hackman, Economic Development Manager, Edgewater
Chamber of Commerce

Public:

None

1. Meeting called to order at 3:04 p.m.
2. Adoption of agenda – John moved to adopt the agenda, Rae Ann seconded the motion, and it passed.
3. Approval of April minutes – John moved to adopt the minutes, Rae Ann seconded the motion, and it
passed.
4. Presentation of Financials – Jennifer presented the financials, and reviewed items planned for the
remainder of the year, including power-washing, an RFP for tree care, photography, promotion of the
theatre district, purchase of an additional trash can, placemaking and light pole painting in our east –
west districts. John asked if additional bike racks were going to be purchased this year. Jennifer
answered that we would likely purchase fewer than five additional bike racks this year. A question was
raised about the EAV for 2015; it has not yet been provided by the City.
5. Presentation of Draft 2017 Budget – Katrina reviewed the new format of the budget planning
documents provided by the City, which now requests the 2016 levy portion of the budget to be broken
into “Collectable Levy” and “Estimated Loss Collection.” Jennifer reviewed the categories and line items
of the draft budget. The Commission discussed adding a new Sustainability element of the Façade
Improvement Program. A modification will be made to 3.0 Sustainability and Public Places accordingly.
Helen made a motion to send the draft budget with the modification of 3.0 to the City. Jenny seconded
the motion. The motion passed.

 6. Approval of Rogers Edge Banner Plan—Jennifer presented a plan to place gold and maroon Rogers
Edge banners with alternating gold and maroon icon banners from Glenwood and Devon to Broadway
and Devon then heading south on Broadway for a few poles, after which the banner design would
change to the blue Edgewater banners and alternate with maroon and blue icon banners to Broadway
and Granville, continuing with this pattern along Granville to Kenmore. The Commission discussed the
number of poles to be designated with Rogers Edge banners on Broadway and Devon. Commissioners
noted concerns that the words on the icon banners will not be legible, and that the icons are not very
visible on the maroon and blue icon banners. John Vranas made a motion that the SSA approve the
banner plan as presented, specifying that two maroon and gold banners should be placed on each side
of Broadway south adjacent to Devon Avenue and as many as can be placed on the south side of
Sheridan Avenue east adjacent to Broadway until the viaduct. Helen seconded the motion. The motion
passed.
The Commission discussed other possible benefits of the Rogers Edge district and suggested focus on
pedestrian safety, and requesting that Loyola distribute Rogers Edge marketing materials about business
and community events to its students, faculty and staff.
7. Program and City Project Updates – Jennifer noted that summer plantings had been installed and
look great. Jill suggested that two planters are hidden by scaffolding on Broadway and should be
moved. Jennifer announced that Anytime Fitness applied for and received approval for a Façade
Improvement rebate. Jenny noted that she saw nice for sale and for rent signs in Bucktown that used
the Bucktown logo.
8. New Business Katrina proposed new ByLaws that would include an attendance policy. The
Commission asked that the proposed ByLaws be circulated to the Commission via email.
9. Public Input – There was no public input.
10. Adjournment – The meeting adjourned at 4:52 pm.

 