Arts Committee
Minutes
September 26, 2017
In attendance: David Ginople (chair), Sam Marts, Dan Murphy, Charlie Rees, Jessica Wobbekind
(managing director), Michael Ashkenasi (SSA program specialist)
1. DG provided the committee with an update on the SSA budget concerns about next year.
2. The committee discussed on-going projects
a. The committee discussed the Wicker Tree installation
i. The Park District requires fine art insurance which may be cost prohibitive and is
hard to obtain.
1. JW will reach out to Barb Guttman for a recommendation
ii. DG recommends we pull the plug on this project, it is becoming something we
don’t want
iii. SM recommends a new location- what about the IDOT owned land on Cortland
west of the highway and Metra tracks (a.k.a. the IDOT triangle)
b. The committee discussed the One Big Thing
i. BN requested that the artist supply architectural drawings
ii. SM- does the contractor have the right kind of license? And how many square
feet are the pavers?
3. The committee discussed the need for an increased online presence for the arts in the
community and the SSA’s efforts in the arts.
a. Facebook- SM suggests we have a dedicated person to post on facebook, it takes a little
effort and time to get followers and it needs to be consistent. This would take about 2-3
hours per week. Once you get some followers to share posts, it will catch on. The
newsletter has everything we need, we just need to post it on fb, as well.
b. We need to set up a separate fb page for the arts, have it linked to the arts tab on the
website.
c. Can we hire an intern to concentrate on the arts?
4. The committee discussed a mural program
a. This could also be an “activate store fronts” program, esp. vacant storefronts, there
could be posters with historic information about buildings, etc. that can be hung in
vacant store front windows.
b. This is a good intern project as well.
 The SSA will look into hiring an intern from SAIC, Columbia or in a related arts program at
another school. This will likely happen in 2018.

 