Arts Committee
Tuesday, September 25th, 2018 - 9am-10am
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce - 1414 N. Ashland Ave.

In attendance:
David Ginople (Chair), Sam Marts, Dan Murphy, Alma Wieser, Annie Coleman, Mary Antonakos,
Garrett Karp (SSA Program Manager), Alice Howe (SSA Program Specialist), Jordan Miller (Arts
& Social Media Admin)
Guests: Lela Dyrkacz & Zygmunt Dyrkacz (Chopin Theatre), Darian Hallagan (Bucktown
Community Organization)
1. Jordan’s report
a) Updates on Hebru Brantley Mural, Window Works Applications, opening
reception for Wicker Tree & Workers Cottage, WPBarts.com is live
2. Update on Mike Helbing’s letter/invoice re: additional support for Wicker Tree
a) Already approved by Commission
3. Chopin Theatre book project - grant proposal deferral from Promote Committee
a) Lela D. presents application for book project with photos and stories from
Chopin Theatre from 1918-2018
b) The committee members are all supportive of the concept of the book project,
but in order to decide whether it qualifies for SSA funding they would like:
1. To see some initial storyboards, outlines, and/or planning documents
guiding the development of the book
2. To see more details regarding the personnel behind creating and editing of
content for the book (i.e. authors, editors, photography – and whether SSA
funds should go towards hiring outside help)
3. To know how many books will be donated to neighborhood organizations
(including how many books will be donated directly to SSA #33 to distribute
within the community for free)
4. To see a plan for SSA #33’s logo be featured prominently along with
sponsors and/or contributors to the book (for reference, most SSA-funded
community programs through Promote Committee grants list the SSA as a
“Sponsor,” while most SSA-sponsored artwork through the Arts Committee
is assumed to be owned by SSA #33, and by extension the public/city)
4. Hebru Brantley mural - update and funding
a) Already approved by Commission

 5. Wicker Park Fountain Restoration Requests
a) $40,000 already approved by Commission
6. Window Works - review proposals and discuss properties
a) Two proposals accepted for curation
1. Russell Muits – Storm Print City
2. Liam Wilson
b) One proposal tabled
1. Jeanette Andrews proposed work for next year to be revisited
c) One proposal turned down
1. Rachel Visalda does not live or practice in the Chicago area
7. SSA Mural Initiative - review proposals and discuss properties
a) Committee members would like clarification and new rendering from both
artists before making final decisions
1. David Heo – needs more complete drawing with potentially altered figure
2. Damon Lamar Reed – need clarification on proposed rendering
8. Bucktown Community Organization
b) Darian discusses mural project for side of library (Wabansia & Milwaukee) and
asks how SSA should get involved (they’d ideally like a 1/3 split with BCO, SSA &
public)
c) Committee and staff not entirely sure if this should go through Promote or Arts
Committee – GK/AH/JM will try to find the correct process for this and other
potential mural projects that don’t fit our current model

 