Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday March 15, 2018 4:00pm
2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Maura Levit, Jayesh Shewakramani, Irshad Khan, Mohammad Yaqoob,
Sanhita Agnihotri
Commissioners Absent: Pete Valavanis
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Tony Pelikan, Gina Caruso (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein

I. Call to Order at 4:10pm
II. Public Input - none
Review and approve draft Meeting Minutes (October 2017 - February 2018). Motion
to approve by Maura with a second by Sanhita APPROVED
III. Programs & Services
a. BIP, Sign Removal and Security Camera Rebate Programs
i. OEMC Camera Program –There was discussion about changing the SSA
Security Camera Program and it was decided to keep program as is and
have the SSA fund cameras on buildings at district intersections using
the OEMC or Luma camera specs. Motion to approve by Sanhita with a
second by Jayesh APPROVED
ii.Jayesh reported the CPD presence is making a difference in the district
and that foot patrol and cars are helping improve safety.
iii.
Police appreciation day – the CPD won’t do roll call anymore but
they attend events like a ribbon cutting.
b. Public Way Beautification
i. Snow Removal Update –Sandi met with Cleanslate to talk about
improvements to their performance. They should show up sooner than
they are and have supplies at the ready ( e.g. salt). Cleanslate may want
to consider hiring workers on the north side that they can activate
more quickly, buying ore ATVs, etc. RPBA will do a snow removal RFP
for 2018 season.
ii.Sidewalk Cleaning Update - the crew wants second dumpster – Irshad
has location close to Damen he is willing to offer.
iii.
Landscaping Update –The spring landscaping is ordered and
winter treatments will come out right before spring ones are installed.
iv.
Streetscape Update – the are supposed to be more benches
installed – Ald. Silverstein will follow up.
v.Holiday Decorations – the RFP will be release soon.
Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 vi.
Power Washing – the Commission wants to clean the corners in
2018 in May –Irshad and Jay will look at the sidewalks and see which
corners need cleaning.
c. Customer Attraction
i. Branding & Website Update – the website is up and running and staff
are working with Spark Factor to work out any kinks.
ii.Marketing Plan – RPBA staff prepared a marketing plan to start
implementing the branding campaign.
iii.
Special Event Concepts – The Commission discussed goals and
ideas for special events:
1. Movie Night at Republic Bank. for international night---indoor
event. Check for weekday night.
2. Dance Competition and a nice prize for the winner possible at
the Republic Bank parking lot. Dance schools outreach, incuding
engaging suburban dance schools – music/dance/food.
3. International Night indoors Sunday November 11 or 18 2pm7pm Croation Cultural Center or Bombay Hall.
4. Other ideas include: Sanhita suggested for Mela to do an event
in June. Music House could do a performances.
5. Fireworks perhaps in the park.
d. 2018 Initiatives
i. Streetscape Ribbon Cutting Event & CPD Outdoor Roll Call – the CPD no
longer does outdoor roll calls but will attend events.
ii.Quarterly SSA Open Houses – the next open house is May 16th at Sabri
Nihiri 2502 W Devon.
IV. SSA Commission
a. Engagement, Renewals and Open Seats- applications are in process for Maura
(renewal), Avi Bereliani, and Mohammed.
b. New meeting dates and times are on Mondays at 3:00pm.
V. Old & New Business
a. West Ridge Chamber Patron Member Invitation – The Commission wants to
invite Chamber to present to the Commission their proposal at the next
meeting.
VI. Adjournment at 5:35pm- Motion by Maura with a second by Mohammad APPROVED

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 