Minutes from SSA #26 Commission Meeting – July 22, 2015
Location:

Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
1210 W. Rosedale, Chicago, IL, 60660

Purpose of Meeting:

SSA #26 Commissioner’s Meeting

In Attendance:
Commissioners:

Jill Metz, Chairman
Rae Ann Cecrle, B&R Developers
Helen Cameron, Uncommon Ground
John Vranas, VP/Secretary
Jenny Yang, Phoenix Bean Products

Staff:

Katrina Balog, Executive Director, Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
Ally Brisbin, Marketing & Events Coordinator, Edgewater Chamber of
Commerce
Jennifer Hackman, Economic Development Manager, Edgewater
Chamber of Commerce

Public:

Stuart Marsh, Edgewater Workbench
Christina Contreras, Patch Landscaping
Brian Dreher, Patch Landscaping

1. Meeting called to order at 3:38 PM
2. Adoption of agenda – Jenny Yang moved to adopt the agenda, Rae Ann Cecrle seconded the motion,
and it passed.
3. Approval of May minutes – Rae Ann Cecrle moved to approve May minutes, Helen Cameron
seconded, and it passed.
4. Presentation of financials - Jennifer presented the financials, no action was required. The commission
recommended that “Income from City of Chicago” be changed to “Property tax income”.
5. Approval of proposed 2016 SSA budget – Jennifer presented the proposed 2016 SSA budget. The line
item 2.05, Streetscape Elements, includes tree plantings. The commission recommended reaching out to
the Department of Forestry for advice. The commission also recommended adding tree grate
replacements to that line item. The commission advised adding $20,000 to the budget, $10,000 coming
from carryover and $10,000 from levy. This money should be allocated to line item 2.05. John Vranas
moved to approve the budget, Rae Ann Cecrle seconded and the motion passed. John Vranas moved to
approve the 2016 budget, Jenny Yang seconded and the motion passed. John Vranas moved to approve

 the 2016 work plan, Helen Cameron seconded and the motion passed. Rae Ann Cecrle moved to
approve the Edgewater Chamber of Commerce as the Sole Service Provider for SSA #26, Jenny Yang
seconded, the motion passed.
6. Landscaping discussion with Patch Landscaping – Christina and Brian from Patch Landscaping came
to talk about making improvements to spring plantings. They brought some examples of decorative
structural objects that could add height and interest to plantings. The commission liked natural objects
like birch, bamboo, and stick balls. Patch recommended a 5 season planting schedule: 1.) Fall – planted
around the third week of September; 2.) Winter A – planted around Thanksgiving; 3.) Winter B – a
refresher installed around the first week of March (decorative); 4.) Spring – planted around the second
week of April; 5.) Summer – planted around the first or second week of June. This schedule is flexible
and weather dependent. It will not increase the budget and will provide more bang for the buck. The
commissioners recommended these structural, decorative elements also be incorporated in the Devon
planters for consistency.
7. Program and Project Updates
a. Sidewalk Sale – Jennifer reported back on the Sidewalk Sale that coincided with the
Edgewater Garage Sale on June 6. All of the businesses participated reported back positively about their
experiences.
b. Bike racks – 57 bike racks have been ordered and are anticipated for August arrival. Locations
for 38 racks have been approved by the city.
c. Market research – Jennifer reported that she has partnered with Dr. Stacy Neier, a marketing
professor at Loyola University, and her summer class. The class will conduct a study of our consumer
spending and retail gaps. The SSA and Chamber will use the information to inform neighborhood
marketing and commercial attraction efforts.
9. New Business
a. Jennifer shared news of the openings of three new businesses in Edgewater: AVP Beads,
Orange Theory Fitness, and EdgeWorx.
10. Public Input – There was no public input.
11. Adjournment – John moved to adjourn the meeting, and Helen seconded at 4:32 p.m.

 