Commission Meeting, Thursday, March 27, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner; Amona Buechler,
Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA Executive Director; Paul Reise, SSA 19 Manager; Carolina
Juarez, RPBA Staff
Absent: Richard Rozhko, Commissioner; Simone Freeman, Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel,
Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:10 a.m.
2. Introduce Paul Reise, Project Manager for Rogers Park Business Alliance and SSA 19
Manager
The commission welcomed Paul.
3. Community and public input
None
4. Review and Approval of February 2014 Minutes
Tabled for next meeting, no quorum.
5. Review end of year Financials
Tabled for next meeting.
6. Programs and Projects
a. Peterson Garden Project- Hello Howard Community Garden
i. Sandi reported that PGP sign is in; we are now just waiting on Sparkfactor to
install.
ii. Lots are sold out, 150 lots were sold at regular price and 30 lots were
scholarships provided by PGP. SSA 19 will pay for 8 raised beds for disabled
members.
iii. Paul will attend a meeting with PGP director and Mike Land to talk about
stage and water access. Paul will ask if only the person who registered for
the lot is required to attend garden orientation.
iv. Sandi did reach out to neighboring schools about PGP moving into Rogers
Park.
v. Commission would like to ensure that fence keeps bunnies and any living
being of a similar size out of the garden.
vi. It was suggested the selling out of lots be published in the News Star along
with Paul’s new position in an effort to publicize the garden.
vii. The commission would like to know more about the programming schedule
for the garden. Need to wait until PGP discloses this information since they

 Commission Meeting, Thursday, March 27, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

are in charge of programming. The commission would the schedule to
include programming during after-school hours.
viii. The commission discussed creating a “thank you” or “welcome to our
neighborhood” banner to post on the fence of garden as a way of letting
people know we are thankful for their participation and to promote the
popularity of the garden.
b. Say Hello to Howard Banners
Banners were ordered. Staff is in contact with building owners to gain access.
c. Public Art
i. Mural: Sandi suggested inviting artists Lea and Dustin from other SSA
projects (Mile of Murals Project) to paint a mural/s along Howard Street. The
commission would like to know more about the Mile of Murals Project, Paul
will send a link to the Mile of Murals project website. Sandi suggested Lea
and Dustin come out the next SSA 19 commission meeting to have them
present. The commission likes to idea of having walls along Howard be
painted with murals: they would like to know what the condition of current
murals are, how many walls are available as a possibility for a mural. Paul
will get this information.
ii. Sculpture: Sandi presented a new public art opportunity through the Chicago
Sculpture Exhibit found by former Alderman Vi Daley. SSA 19 and Alderman
Joe Moore would pay to rent a sculpture to be installed along Howard Street
for one year. The commission would have the option to choose
artist/sculpture. (Selected artists are awarded a small stipend in return for a oneyear display of their creation. A kickoff party is held after the installations are
complete with trolley tours taking place periodically throughout the year.)

The commission agrees to move forward with this project. They are
interested in having the sculpture installed in First option: Bank of America
garden or Second Option: Howard/Paulina sidewalk corner in front of North
Shore Optical. The commission would like some clarification on:
1. Is Bank of America garden public property?
2. What does contract with Chicago Sculpture Exhibit specifically entail?
Will they make signs? Will the sculptures be lit during the dark
hours?
3. Make sure the public is involved in voting for the sculptures.
d. Website
Commission discussed latest version of website created by Lisl Hector. Changes to
be made include:
i. SSA logo (attached) somewhere on the bottom of the website with the words
"brought to you by Howard Street Special Service Area #19" and a link to our
SSA page, http://www.rogers-park.com/ssa-19-howard-street/
ii. Links in business directory should open in new window
iii. Movie in the Park should go to Fb event page:
https://www.facebook.com/events/595654217200610/
iv. Your website link is not working

 Commission Meeting, Thursday, March 27, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

v. FB and Email logo should be bigger and add Twitter :
https://twitter.com/hellohowardchi
e. Movie in the Park – Cloudy With A Chance of Meatballs II, Wednesday, August 27,
2014 at dusk
7. Old Business
a. Commission asked for a status on project with Chicago Architecture Foundation
because they would like to move forward with project. Paul will get back in contact
with CAF to get an update.
b. Streetscape clock is finally installed on Howard Street. Sandi reported electrical
power should be working. Meters will be in SSA 19’s name. Commission would like
to have trees lit same as the tree lights west of CTA tracks. Paul will check that
current lights are functional.
c. Sandi spoke with Brittany about continuing Art & Sol Flea Market. Brittany would
like to plan for a weekend market (2 days) instead of a monthly market throughout
the summer. Sandi will get a date from Brittany.

8. New Business
a. Charlotte voiced her concern regarding a leak coming from a property next door to
her business. Paul will contact Alderman’s office for assistance.
b. Commission would like Divvy bikes near Howard Street. Sandi explained Divvy’s
process for acquiring new locations. Paul will contact Divvy to let them know of the
commission’s interest.
c. Sandi inquired about the necessity of having internet access on all three cameras on
Howard. Charlotte is currently the only one with access, she will check with police
to ask if the feature useful to them.
d. The commission discussed a different meeting time in order to accommodate all
commissioners. Paul will check if Richard is available on Fridays in the morning, if he
is, meeting will be rescheduled to Friday of every month at 8 a.m.
e. Commission recapped the City of Chicago’s SSA Managers/Commissioner’s Training.
f. Harvest Fest will be Saturday, September 27, 2014. Loyola University Chicago’s
sustainability program is invited to join the festival.
Meeting adjourned at 10:15 a.m.

 