Devon SSA 43 Commission Meeting Minutes
Thursday, April 20, 2017 6:00pm
th
Office of 50 Ward Ald. Silverstein 2949 W. Devon Avenue
Commissioners Present: Irshad Khan, Maura Levit, Pete Valavanis
Commissioners Not Present: Bhavesh Patel, Sanhita Agnihotri
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price and Gina Caruso (Rogers Park Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: 50th Ward Alderman Debra Silverstein
Public Present: Bob Wissman (ACT Group), Robert Taylor (West Ridge Chamber of Commerce)
1. Call to Order: Irshad called the meeting to order at 6:10pm.
2. March 2017 Minutes: The minutes were approved by Maura with a second by Pete.
APPROVED
3. Financial Report:
1. 2016 Audit. Sandi introduced Bob Wissmann from ACT Group, which was
retained to perform the SSA 43 2016 Audit. Bob reviewed the audit with the
Commissioners and noted there were no findings needing remedy. Peter
motioned to approve the audit with a second by Maura. APPROVED
2. 2018 Work Plan and Budget: Sandi and Gina facilitated a discussion with the
Commissioners about their program and budget priorities for 2018. The
discussion also included updates on 2017 programming.
1. Increase landscaping to account for new streetscape landscaping
2. Holiday decorations – consider putting lights on light poles on a semipermanent basis and/or change colors for the seasons. Look into
stringing lights from pole to pole parallel to the street.
3. Get cost estimates for 2017 as well as 2018 for pressure washing
sidewalks to address gum and spit stains.
4. Inventory Bigbelly’s to determine which can be repaired and dispose the
ones that cannot be repaired. Work with the 50th Ward Streets and
Sanitation Ward office to determine trash hot spots and whether to put
new trash cans in those spots that complement the streetscape. RPBA to
get a litter report from CleanStreet to know trash hot spots to help plan
for trash cans. Invite Mike Hein from the 50th Ward Sts/San office to the
May meeting.
5. Identify sites for public art.
6. Allocate funds for special events
7. Allocate funds for conferences and training and show Commissioners
conference programs to see which ones they may want to attend.

 8. Commercial vacancies – get property owners names for long term
vacancies—allocate funds to commercial attraction initiatives. And have
an intern get additional business info.
9. Find ways to celebrate the holidays on the street. Dawali Hanukah
Christmas and other holidays. The 2017 Sidewalk Sale is planned for
Sunday July 9th
10. Don’t need to fund security patrol.
3. Business Support
1. Branding and communications—Commission likes Hello Howard website
and agree to the need to come up with something catchy – get bids for a
catchy line and the website and on branding and website development.
Motion to adjourn at 7:40pm by Pete with a second by Maura APPROVED

 