Guide Development Committee
July 9th, 2018
8.00am-9.00am
In attendance: Brent Norsman (Chair), Marcy Huttas (Co-Chair), John Paige, Samantha Choudhury SSA
Program Manager, Alice Howe SSA Program Specialist
1. Discussion about doing a joint competition for the window installations with Logan Square
Chamber/businesses
2. Launching of the WPB Ambassador program
a. Should individual volunteers be paid? (Brent)
i. Stipend or gift cart to a local business? (Marcy)
b. Concern about crime being too much of the focus right now
i. PunchAlert raises concern
1. Moving away from a friendly resource to a “paid vigilante”
ii. Keep the reporting simple
c. Tips could possibly include the tracking of when an ambassador assists in the
community?
d. Can ambassadors be at WP Fest?
e. Reach out to Collaboraction for Ambassadors
3. Alderman Moreno wants the SSA to assist with private security for businesses
a. Following the most recent shooting in front of High Noon
b. The Alderman’s office should organize bar owners to create solutions and also refer
them to the SSA’s safety rebate
4. The store-front program moving forward
a. The Arts Committee may potentially match the $1,500
i. Arts committee would like local artists over businesses to participate
b. GD Committee would like to leave the restrictions limited
i. Strongly recommend lighting but do not require it
c. Focus group for storefronts with building owners?
i. Use Nicole? As a resource for this
d. Reach out to the following for examples:
i. Rebecca at Volumes
ii. Brent
iii. Lubinski’s
iv. Heaven Gallery
v. Debonair
e. Empty storefronts could be utilized to provide examples for future businesses

 Motions for the SSA Commission
Motion 1: To approve not to exceed $22,500 from Line Item 2.03 (façade rebates), for the “Window
Works” program for one year. This will include the payment for 15 applicants to participate in the
“Window Works” program to promote local artist’s works or local business’ merchandise.
Motion made by BN. MH seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.

 