Commission Meeting Minutes, Wednesday, April 19, 2017, 8:30 a.m.
Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard
Howard Street Special Service Area #19 Minutes

Minutes
Attending: Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner (via phone); Commissioner; Cato
Heinz, Carrie Sullivan, Proposed Commissioner; Sandi Price and Cynthia Ryan, RPBA.
Absent: Gale Howard, Cally Radunzel, Simone Freeman
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:40a.m.
2. Community and Public Input - none
3. Approval of Minutes
a. Motion was made by Barry, seconded by Cato to approve the minutes from the November 17,
2016 SSA 19 meeting. Approved unanimously.
b. Motion was made by Barry, seconded by Cato to approve the minutes from the March 15, 2017
SSA 19 meeting. Approved unanimously.
4. New Commissioners
New commissioners are no longer needed. Upon review of the bylaws, we learned that the SSA has 7
seats, not 9, which we previously thought.
5. Business Improvement Program
a. Howard and Paulina – BIP application was approved on November 18, 2016, and the building
owner has 180 days to make the improvements. Work has still not started.
b. An application was submitted for a rebate for awnings at 2125 W. Howard. The plan is for
generic awnings to be installed with the property owner adding the names of the businesses as
storefronts are rented. Motion was made by Barry, seconded by Cato to approve the request
for a rebate of up to $5,000 for new awnings at 2125 W. Howard. Approved unanimously.
6. Old Business
a. Charlotte was not to give an update on InQbate.
b. The Eddy’s sign comes down today. We are still trying to determine the best way to install the
sculpture.
c. We discussed the ‘Hello Howard’ identity branding that was done some time ago. The group
felt that while the branding is valuable and the Hello Howard is a good campaign, the message
that the faces are business owners gets lost. Is there a way to move the campaign forward with
more focus on businesses. Maybe we should shift to “What’s Happening on Howard?”

Meeting Notes

Page 1 of 2

 Sparkfactor, the firm that created Hello Howard, will be invited to our May meeting to discuss
this further.
d. Artspace is still considering the garden space on Howard for their development.
7. New Business
a. The new development going in next to Charlotte will pay to have a restaurant space built out
only if they have a signed contract from a restaurant. Barry will ask his partner to reach out to
restaurants who might be interested.
b. Factory Theater’s show closes on 4/29. Use the code “neighbor” for $10 off.
c. Janelle knows of a bakery that may want to go into the Fat Boys space. She will reach out to
Simone about keeping the paintings.
d. The space between Factory and Sol Café is available to rent for $20/hour. It’s approximately
1,500sf.
e. Barry would like some of the black planters in front of his shop.
Meeting adjourned at 10:50 a.m. Our next meeting will be May 17th at the Factory Theatre at 8:30am.

Meeting Notes

Page 2 of 2

 