Arts Committee Minutes (March)
Tuesday, February 26th, 2019 – 9:08am-10:45am
Janik’s Cafe - 2011 W. Division St.
In attendance: David Ginople (Chair), Brent Norsman (voting member), Mary Antonakas (voting
member), Charlie Rees (voting member), Wayne Janik (Commissioner), Darien Hallagan (voting member),
Alma Weiser (voting member), Carron Little (voting member)
Guests: Mary Burzynski (Business owner – Prop Art/Resident)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager), Jordan Miller (Social Media &
Arts Admin)
1. Jordan’s WPB Arts report
a. JM reported on additions made to the WPB Arts webpage, which now includes performance
venues (music, dance, etc.)
b. He is also researching the feasibility of an artist’s residency, although admits that the SSA
would need to partner with other organizations for this and would not have the budget or
staff support to take the lead on this initiative
2. Window Works proposals
a. Alexander Harlan – Approved
b. Penny Pinch – Approved
c. Sara Engimann – Approved
d. Todd Howell – Rejected
3. Chicago Sculpture Exhibition
a. The SSA Commission approved funding for five additional sculptures at their February
meeting
b. Arts committee will review CSE’s finalists and submit preferred selections in the coming
weeks
c. Nathan Pierce, the artist who created “Sweet Pea” the CSE piece that is currently in Walsh
Park, has expressed interest in selling his sculpture to the SSA for $24,000, and is open to
financing it over three years.
4. Window Works
a. Guide Development and SSA staff have asked the Arts Committee members to assist in
outreach to realtors/building owners to participate in the program
b. DG and WJ suggest activating underutilized storefronts to place artists that have already
been chosen for WW – but BN, GK and DG question whether this should be a separate
program
c. GK warns that we don’t want to cannibalize our own program, especially one that has had a
low success rate thus far
5. Wicker Park Fest Arts Area 2019
a. Staff will post the RFP this week and the committee in order for the Arts Committee
reviewing submissions by April.
6. Wayfinding Kiosks
a. Staff distributed mock ups of wayfinding kiosks (an initiative from Transportation
Committee) that will be installed at 4 locations in the SSA this spring/summer. The
committee will begin thinking about how to approach artist selection and curation of the art

 b. MA suggests that there be consistency between the wayfinding and SSA branding
7. Fall Art Festival
a. CL suggests we organize bus shuttles to our neighborhood’s galleries after EXPO Chicago, as
September is a major art month and SSA should capitalize on audience in town for these
events
b. WJ suggests partnering with Renegade Craft Festival as they already produce a street
festival on Division St during September.
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $10,000 from line item 2.06 (public
art) for two art installations to take place at Wicker Park Fest in July 2019. (19-0206)
DG motions. MT seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Discussion: DG would like to see this area split between two venues and ideally, not next to a stage or
speakers.
2019 Arts Committee Schedule
January 22
February 26
March 26
April 23
May 28
June 25
August 27
September 24
October 22
November 26
Please note: Beginning in 2019 we’re treating Arts Committee as the first meeting for the following month. (i.e. the 1/22 Arts
Committee meeting is the “February” meeting, as it takes place in advance of the Feb Commission meeting).

 