Promote Committee Minutes
April 4th, 2019 8:40 – 9:30 AM
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: Rebecca Dohe (Committee Chair), Elaine Coorens (Voting member), Fernando Moreno
(Voting member), David Ginople (SSA Commission Chair)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. Grant Applications
Motion 1: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $422.00 from line item 1.10
(community grants) for Quimby’s Bookstore to host the Chicago Zine Fest. (19-0405)
EC Motions, FM Seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.
Motion 2: The committee moves to approve funding not to exceed $1,475.00 from line item 1.10
(community grants) from The Polish Triangle Coalition’s “Tuesday’s at the Triangle” to begin in June.
(19-0404)
DG motions. RD Seconds. FM, DG, RD in favor. EC Abstains. Motion passes.
2. Final draft of 2018 Annual Report
a. The committee reviewed the final draft and gave their final feedback and edits to the
staff
3. Illuminight / Holiday Lighting updates
a. Promote Committee has been given full responsibility of holiday decorations and lights
b. DG would like to review the original HAP contract to ensure we do not own the
snowflakes
c. Illuminight will be providing staff with an updated quote for The Polish Triangle lights
i. This new quote will include lights that can be programmed for different season
or remain white
ii. The committee recommends that the Executive Committee approve up to
$22,000 for Illuminight to install lights to remain up year-round
d. Staff have posted a new holiday decoration RFP (deadline April 26)
i. Submissions will be reviewed at next month’s meeting
4. WPB Arts Guide visibility
a. The committee would like to see the Arts Guide shared in more spaces and more
accessible on the SSA website
i. EC would like to post on Our Urban Times website
5. Neighborhood/Business Marketing
a. RD presented two marketing ideas to the committee: a passport for shopping local and
a coupon book to distribute to the schools as fundraisers
b. The committee agrees that having a consistent message throughout the year is essential

 i. RD suggests another way to remain consistent is through distributing “every
door direct mail” flyers
c. FM has a contact at Northeastern University that might be interested in partnering with
the SSA. Students would be given an assignment to assist us with our new marketing
campaign.

2019 Promote Committee Schedule
May 2
June 6
June 27 (July meeting, one week earlier)
September 5
October 3
November 7

 