WPB Guide Development Committee
Minutes
February 21, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman (co-chair), John Paige, Suzanne Keers, Pamela Maass (executive director),
Jessica Wobbekind (managing director), Michael Ashkenasi (ssa program specialist)
1. The committee discussed the hiring of Quality of Life / Safety consultant, Jim Peters.
a. Mr. Peters will hold a seminar, we will invite Commissioners, Board members,
committee members, Aldermen
b. He wants to come in early in the week, JW will find out if he can change the visit to
closer to the end of the week, weekend to get a better sense of the environment
c. What will be the subject matter?
i. Best practice
ii. Feedback on his observations
iii. Direct recommendations
iv. Facilitated discussion
v. Final report
d. JP asks, what is the goal? To identify actionable items that the SSA can implement to
affect change, how to balance growth, how messaging shapes perception
e. Do we have data to back up the recommendations?
i. Crime data
ii. Annual report, market study
iii. Perceived idea of safety on fb groups, media, etc
f. Mr. Peters will conduct interviews
g. “The neighborhood needs to be put into perspective” – positive light: “challenges in a
growing nighttime economy”, “manage the growing pains”, create awareness
2. The committee discussed the Neighborhood Safety Rebate Program
JP moves to approve the Neighborhood Safety Rebate Program, SK 2nds, all in favor- the
program can be launched today.
3. The committee reviewed the Façade Rebate Policy
a. BN- obviously the City supports it, we can’t determine who is worthy, we should keep it
as is. All agree, staff will remove old language and reinstate the program. Idea- we
should link to the façade rebate program on the vacant property page.
4. Continued conversation/ brainstorming about messaging: This is a project for the Promote WPB
Committeea. “the best neighborhood in the world”
b. a “complete” neighborhood- the density and mix has been here for 100 years but it is
ever-evolving. “Chicago’s Complete Neighborhood”
c. Chicago’s most walkable neighborhood

 