WPB Transportation Committee
Agenda
November 9, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman (chair), Joe Hall (co-chair), Lindsay Bailey, Pamela Maass (Executive
Director), Michael Ashkenasi (Program Specialist), Hans Kumler (Program Specialist), Asher Kohn (visitor)
1. Visitor – Asher Kohn
a. Asher is new to the neighborhood and enrolled in his 1st semester in UIC’s MUPP
program. He is interested in getting involved with committees relating to Econ.
Development, Community Development, and transportation. Has interest in developing
GIS skills.
2. Milwaukee Ave pilot project
a. Planters—The committee discussed making a decision about planter designs. HK will
research costs and cylindrical designs that may fit better between bollards and work
with MA to resubmit application and gain needed signatures on app. BN noted
maintenance costs should be considered, MA and JH suggested native species plants
that don’t require watering as often. JH noted that snow removal will need to be taken
into consideration with installation, although this may not matter since installation will
have to wait until spring 2018.
b. Feedback from CDOT—MA heard back from 32nd ward office re: speed camera @
Milwaukee / The 606. 32nd ward generally does not support automated speed
enforcement, based on study conducted with ATA and Mayor’s office. 32nd ward would
prefer to have traffic control based on visual cues to road users. HK will await CDOT data
to support traffic improvements along sections of Milwaukee not already addressed.
MA suggested that flashing “your speed” signs, stop signs, or yield for
pedestrians/cyclists signs as motorists go under the 606 could be explored.
3. Damaged fences on North Ave at Wolcott and North Ave at Marshfield—Both repaired
4. Bench permits—26 total permits out for benches, with 17 awaiting signatures from alderman or
approval by PWU as of 11/9/17. HK will identify other possible locations for benches in service
area, excluding North Ave, for December committee meeting.
5. Blue Lounge Project—MA reached out to Vanessa with CDOT re: cleanslate being responsible for
putting out tables/chairs and picking up. JH brought up that city opposition to this project “not
being part of our work plan” should be addressed, since it is part of our Master Plan update.
6. Wayfinding Project—Committee reviewed RFP (second draft) and several design suggestions
provided by BN. Discussed importance of highlighting cultural assets of community vs. using
wayfinding to direct visitors to businesses. HK will look into place-making designers and prepare
a list of firms for December committee meeting.
Motion: to approve funding for 15 branded orange bike racks and 10 unbranded orange bike racks in an
amount not to exceed $12,000 from line item 3.04 (Bicycle Transit enhancements)
BN motions, JH seconds. All in favor.

 