SSA #26 Commission Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, October 12, 2016
Location: Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
1210 West Rosedale, Chicago, Illinois 60660
Purpose of Meeting: SSA #26 Commission Meeting
Commissioners in attendance
Jill Metz, Chairman
John Vranas, Vranas and Chioros
Jenny Yang, Phoenix Bean Tofu
Helen Cameron, Uncommon Ground
Tina Travlos-Nihlean, Edgewater Development Corporation
Staff
Katrina Balog, Executive Director, Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
Melissa Franada, Marketing and Events Coordinator, Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
Rachael Burs, Project Coordinator, Edgewater Chamber of Commerce
Public
Jennifer Borchardt, Economic Development Corporation
1. Meeting called to order, 3:11pm
2. Adoption of the Agenda​ - Jenny moved to approve agenda, Helen seconded, all approved,
and the motion passed.
3. Approval of July minutes​ - Helen moved to approve, Tina seconded, all approved, and the
motion passed. None opposed.
4. Presentation of Financials​ - Katrina discussed P&L. Annual report to come before the end of
the year to discuss more detail. Money is still in the account, but there are expenses to come
before the end of the year. Jenny noted that the automatic title was the incorrect year.
5. Programs and Projects Update
A. Events: overall view for the metrics from the summer events. In the future, may change the
metrics to better exemplify each program.
EYSS, EDC - attendance seemed to increase this year, anecdotally. Difficult to track with the
EYSS. Create something to track next year?
EdgeFest - decrease in traffic to LY. Competition is increasing. Brainstorming possible causes,
though impossible to pinpoint.

 EFAF - increase in attendance, seemed to be growing each year.
B. Landscaping: snow removal, tree trimming; Jenny asked about power washing?
We did earlier in the summer, but with the construction, it might be a good idea to do it again.
C. Holiday promotion:
Jennifer Borchardt discussed possible events. 1. Pop-up shop on Bryn Mawr - dwell in the Bell
Shore Building with a consignment model, similar to the Andersonville Galleria. Include the
#shopedgewater to work within social media. Very low fee, with no commission to the
Makers. Including local businesses. Goal -> October 22 opening. 2. Holiday Remix at the
Armory. LY had some opportunities in marketing and promotion, as well as timing. Potential
to execute a bounce back program to encourage repeat business.
The intent for each is to increase resident foot traffic in the specific area, near Bryn Mawr/
Sheridan. It is also to attract the Makers to hopefully open a permanent store in 2017.
As a proposal to the SSA for funding for the dwell pop-up shop Jill: if the 50 Makers would be from Edgewater and asked the tie-in with the local businesses.
There are local businesses that would be included, Audio Archaeology, frame (Leif), etc. How
do you track attendance?
Helen: asked how much is left within the budget?
Katrina discussed where within the budget there is room - economic development and special
events has room to spend the funds.
John: What is the EDC’s involvement? Staff and support. What is the ECC’s involvement?
Connections to vendors. Promotion. Social media. How is the SSA going to benefit? Offering a
business opportunity to potential business owners or customers.
Helen moved to fund the proposal.
Katrina suggested the SSA discuss the proposal without Jennifer present.
John excited about the proposal. There is a huge commitment to the event.
Helen also excited, especially for the artist involvement piece.
John: businesses involvement is the bigger attraction to him.
Tina: capitalizing on cross-promotion of the businesses
Jenny posed the question about other programs submitting proposals
Jill discussed how the SSA had originally set a timeline for proposals
John:
Katrina: SSA businesses involvement
John: made the motion to approve
Helen: seconded.
All approved. None opposed.
6. Selection of Snow Removal Contractor​ - Rachael discussed the snow removal RFP and went
through the comparison between Patch and Cleanstreet. Storage area of the equipment.
John: shipping container location? It has not been confirmed or located. Referrals for
Cleanstreet? From North Halsted Business Alliance, West Ridge Chamber of Commerce, and
South Shore Chamber. Asked Chamber thoughts and concerns.
Jill: occurrences? LY included refund.
Katrina: discussed possible concerns from working with RPBA with mobilization.
John: moved to enter contract with Cleanstreet
Katrina: willing to discuss rolling contract?

 John: subject to cancellation within the three years
Jenny: would this affect the landscaping contract?
Tina seconded. All in favor. None opposed.
7. Select next meeting date​ - November 30, 3pm; if no voting, then meeting will be cancelled;
February 1, 2017, 3pm
8. New business ​- none
9. Public input ​ - none
10. Announcements -​ Andy’s Thai Kitchen @ 6230 North Broadway, second location
RogersEdge update - banners. Dinner Crawl. Continuous meetings with LUC. Possible maps
coming up in publication. Polar-Palooza upcoming. Facebook page.
North Center Restaurant Week - maybe for the SSA? Each restaurant decides their
involvement. Maybe for 2017. One common ingredient?
11. Adjournment ​- Jill motioned to adjourn. The meeting adjourned at PM.

 