Transportation Committee Minutes
February 14, 8:40 AM – 9:30 AM
WPB Chamber Office – 1414 N. Ashland Ave.
In attendance: Lindsay Bayley (voting member)
Guests: Bud Rodecker (Vendor-Thirst)
Staff: Alice Howe (Program Specialist), Garrett Karp (Program Manager)
1. Milwaukee Avenue Planters
a. GK presented proposed map of planter locations for the second round of orders
for Milwaukee Avenue (to be installed in late April)
b. LB and AH gave feedback on slip lane placements and how to arrange the new,
larger planters
c. GK will follow up by email with entire committee with next draft of locations
before sending to Doty & Sons (installer) and maintenance/landscaping
contractors
2. Wayfinding
a. BR from Thirst presented the updated blade signs for the Wayfinding project
b. He discussed Poblacki’s updates to the designs
c. The committee reviewed design of kiosks maps and gave feedback such as
adding additional side streets and all of the parks
d. The committee is still waiting on some production details from Poblacki and a
meeting with CDOT to advance this project (intended to launch this spring)
e. BR and committee discussed moving the process of the plaques along with a
separate production method instead of waiting to launch with the rest of
wayfinding
f. BR will look into cheaper pricing or additional ways to produce the art plaques
g. GK suggests that the NW corner of Cortland/Ashland is the best option for the
4th kiosk
3. Bike Racks
a. 28 SSA Bike Racks in Cleanslate storage are being picked up by CDOT contractor
within the next two weeks and should be installed by early March (weather
dependent)
b. Locations will be chosen based on CDOT master map of bike rack requests, but if
we have specific locations where we’d like an SSA rack (i.e. 1615 N. Damen), SSA
staff can work with CDOT bike contractor on special requests
c. CDOT will also be installing several blank anodized city bike racks this spring
4. GK presented updated spreadsheet and digital map of SSA street furniture and permits

 5. CDOT discussion
a. GK updated committee on recent discussions with CDOT transportation planner
Dave Smith and improved communication between SSA and CDOT to allow for
budgeting/planning for streetscaping other SSA corridors in the near future
(similar to Milwaukee Avenue planters)
Next Meeting: March 14
2019 Transportation Committee Schedule
January 10
February 14
March 14
April 11
May 9
June 13
July 11 (after July Commission meeting)
September 12
October 10
November 14
December 12

 