Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, October 17, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19

Minutes
Attending: Linda Szarkowski, Chair; Amona Buechler, Commissioner; Simone Freeman,
Commissioner; Cally Raduenzel, Commissioner; Paul Reise, SSA 19 Manager; Dave Skora,
Resident
Absent: Charlotte Walters, Commissioner
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:15 a.m.
2. Community and public input
None.
3. Review and Approval of September 2014 Minutes
The commission reviewed the September 2014 minutes. No corrections were
requested, no errors were found nor additional information requested. Motion to
approve the September 2014 minutes as presented. (Raduenzel/ Buechler)
Unanimously approved.
4. Review September 2014 Financials
Paul and commission reviewed and discussed August 2014 Financials.
5. Programs and Projects
a. Harvest Fest- Paul reported on the successful event
b. Peterson Garden- update on the season and Paul informed that closing date is
Nov 3rd
c. Mural- Paul showed photos of the progress the artists have made and should be
completed within weeks
d. Holiday lighting- Patch Landscaping will again wrap the poles in the district with
ribbon and garland. Paul has also asked for quotes on including lights on the
poles, as well as creating a winter wonderland scene in the PGP lot.
e. Snow removal- RPBA signed snow removal contract with CleanStreet. They will
be utilized when snow is over one inch. Paul reminded commissioners that this
service is supplemental and all property owners are responsible for clearing the
sidewalks.
f. Artspace- Paul explained phase II of the Artspace project and asked the
commission to consider showing their support financially. Cmsr. Buechler made a
motion to allocate $20,000 as a match to other funds raised by RPBA (seconded
by Raduenzel). A discussion about what the commission would get out of the
study and it was determined that the results of the marketing survey were well
worth the expense. Commissioner voted and unanimously approved the motion.
6. Old Business

 Commission Meeting Minutes, Friday, October 17, 2014, 8 a.m.
Sol Café 1615 W. Howard

None
7. New Business
a. Paul announced the Board/ Commission retreat is Nov. 8th at CMSA
b. Paul relayed info on the Art Round Trip on Oct 5th
Meeting adjourned at 9:47 a.m.

 