Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
Monday, August 20, 2018 3:00pm 2949 W. Devon Ave., Chicago
Commissioners Present: Sanhita Agnihotri, Irshad Khan, Jayesh Shewakramani, Pete
Valavanis, Maura Levit, Avi Bereliani
Commissioners Absent: Mohammad Yaqoob
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Gina Caruso, Tony Pelikan (Rogers Park
Business Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
Guests: CPD Officers Khan and Quadre
I. Call to Order at 6:05pm
II. Public Input - None
III. Financials- The Commission reviewed the financials. There are no significant issues or
trends. The SSA fund is receiving funds according to schedule per Cook County tax
collection cycles.
IV. Programs & Services
a. BIP, Sign Removal and Security Camera Rebate Programs
i. CPD Officers: Camera Audit - Officers Khan and Quadre attended the
meeting to discuss their recommendations for putting cameras at every
corner where they are not currently located and review the map and sites
list. Irshad asked for priority intersections. First priority areas on Devon
are California then Seely, Hoyne, and Hamilton. Next in order of priority
are Bell, Claremont, and Fairfield. Next up not in priority is Mozart,
Albany, Troy and Kedzie. Tallman and Rockwell are done and Western
and Artesian are ok.
ii.RPBA to create a consent form for the 100% SSA funded cameras and
update the RFP. RPBA can do the cameras and encourage the businesses
to do cameras inside – vendor to bill separately. Police to meet the RPBA
vendor to make recommendation. Takes 90-120 days because the public
way use permit needs to be passed by City Council. Can use the Luma app
to look at camera footage on the phone. Do 4 channel DVR. Avi will send
RPBA Security Camera vendor info.
b. Public Way Beautification - Streetscape Update. Do end of year walk through to
check on missing, damaged items including landscaping.
c. Landscaping – 2 new planters will be placed by CDOT; in-ground planters, tree
grates, fall planting – no fall planting; Ald. to check with CDOT on tree trimming
issues and will ask them to check Devon.

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
d. Customer Attraction
i. Advertising: Light Pole Banners – Irshad and Peter mentioned there are
old poles partially painted black and top is not painted; some poles have
lights missing. Tony to check if we are missing banners and will order
extras. In the future the ones that say “Around the World” and without
the pictures are hard to read.
ii.Advertising – radio: WBEZ costs reviewed. Can do different stations.
Question whether businesses would participate. Have the ad be for On
Devon and enter to win one of 5 $100 in gift coupons. Use WBEZ for
Devon’s Got Talent. Do also for Dinner Crawl and Movie Night. Get
listener count. Bring WBEZ ad person to Sept mtg. Get CTA advertising
costs. Edin met with Seamus from Block Club Chicago and will connect us
for On Devon.
Special Events
iii.
1. Movie Night & Dinner Crawl – Rain Date – WRCC will look at a day
for a rain date in September
2. Devon's Got Talent November 11th – Big Buzz Idea Group is
working on the event, priority projects are a contract with the
venue and application forms/outreach.
e. Quarterly SSA Open Houses –October 17th - Ald. had meeting with Devon
restaurants and they want to do a market – restaurants need to talk to the
other businesses. Need to take an outside food sanitation class – Ald. will
sponsor the training in the ward. Example is Pilsen Fest. Amnal
Restaurant is an example. Ald. will see if they will come to a meeting to
discuss and set their commitment – if not, then we won’t do it. WRCC is
looking at using Washtenaw and the Republic Bank lot. Could just use the
parking lot. Get 3-4 restaurants to commit. Sandi will sit down with Edin to
discuss how to do the event. WRCC will come back in a month to present
plan – looking around July 4 season. One event---WRCC doing
management. Step 1 Irshad and Tony to approach restaurants then Ald
convene meeting then WRCC proposal.
f. Economic Development: Strategic Planning and Mapping- Tony to do
proposal for next meeting from PLACE
V. SSA Commission
a. Engagement, Renewals, Open Seats, Treasurer, SSA Ambassador Zone Map
b. Next 2018 meetings (Mondays 3:00pm) : 9/17; 10/15; 11/19; 12/17
i. Ambassador Zones – get checklist of things to discuss on business visits –
Tony to get packet together
VI. Old & New Business
a. Opened / Closed Businesses
Adjournment Motion to approve adjournment at 4:50pm by Pete with a
VII.
second by Avi APPROVED
Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 