 

MHgsa?Egv'??lf??E?E Commission Meeting Minutes, Wednesday, January 18, 2017, 8:30 am.
a CHICAGO a Housing Opportunities for Women, 1611 W. Howard

Howard Street Special Service Area #19
Minutes

Attending: Cato Heinz, Commissioner; Barry Hoven, Commissioner; Charlotte Walters, Commissioner;
Carrie Sullivan, Proposed Commissioner; Sandi Price, RPBA.

Absent: Simone Freeman, Gale Howard, Cally Raduenzel

1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:37am.

2. Community and public input - none

3. Approval of November 2016 Minutes
November minutes were not presented for approval.

4. SSA Structure

3. Election of officers Commissioners approved the following: Chair Cally Raduenzel,
Vice Chair Barry Hoven, Secretary Gale Howard, Treasurer Charlotte Walters

b. Confirm day/time meeting schedule for 2017 Commissioners approved the third
Wednesday of each month at 8:30am at Factory Theater, 1623 W. Howard, moving
fon/vard.

c. New commissioners Sandi will follow up with Neville Muir of Insurance Centers,
Charlotte will follow up with Mer from Chase Bank and Barry will talk with Janelle. Other
suggestions include Dawn Gregory and Michael Humes.

5. Old business

a. Flavors of Howard Street Since Simone was not available, we do not have information
regarding her outreach to artists and building owners. If she has not been able to reach
out by February we will reschedule the event for 2018. If we are to move fonNard,
the event should be a dinner/art crawl only.

b. Newly opened businesses Byline Bank at Howard and Ridge has closed.

c. Upcoming events Factory Theater has a VIP preview show scheduled for 3/23. All are
invited to attend.

d. anbate Sandi reported that we are working with anbate to determine the best use of
their time. We should have more information in February

e. Lighting on Howard CDOT insists that we take the lights down each year. They will be
taken down in February and we will try to get them reinstalled in October.

f. Business Improvement Program There have not been any requests for BIP funds
received.

6. New business
a. Around the Clock Liquors Barry will reach out to Ed regarding how to be a better
business.
b. Street Pole Banners We will create an RFP for street pole banners designed to shape
our brand. They should be neighborhood identifiers and continue with the Hello Howard
theme. They should promote the diversity, livability and walkability of Howard Street.

Meeting adjourned at 10:10 am. Our next meeting will be on 2/15 at 8:30am at Factory Theater.

