WPB Arts Committee
Meeting Minutes
June 26, 2018
In attendance: David Ginople (chair), Mary Antonakos, Dan Murphy, Sam Marts, Alma Weiser, Sam
Choudhury (SSA Program Manager), Jordan Miller (WPB/SSA Arts + Social Media Admin), Carron Little.

1. SC updated the committee on the status of Lynn Basa’s Workers Cottage Parklet and Mike
Helbing’s Wicker Tree. Installation on both is moving forward. Basa has broken ground but
needs a city approved electrical plan while Helbing has purchased the earth screws and is ready
to move forward for installation by July 23rd. The committee discussed the need for signage and
information for both works. It was agreed that signage not falling under the monument permit
should be explored and should have a consistency in design, perhaps even based off of the new
wayfinding design. SC to explore creation of plaques with chosen vendor.
2. DG/SC/JM described current plans for a vacant storefront activation program, Window Works.
The committee agreed to pool funding across committees for the initiative but take a curatorial
lead on the project. The committee was in agreement that money should go to artists and there
was discussion around the scope of the stipend. The SSA agreed to look into the insurance
coverage provided by the Chamber and will begin the process of developing the final RFP and
open call for the project. A vote was taken to determine the stipend cap. Window Works will
seek to activate 5 vacant storefronts for 3-6 months each at $500 per month, with a minimum
payment of $1,000 and maximum stipend of $3,000. The stipend may be flexible based on
complexity and quality of the proposal and at the discretion of the committee.
3. DG explains commission’s desire to form a year-round mural funding program. SC/JM confirm
neighborhood interest and desire for such program. The committee discussed the potential to
draw in international artists but the majority consensus was to keep the artists local or regional.
2nd Ward Alderman Brian Hopkins is also forming a database of public art and will want to add
these future murals to the protected list. After discussing the stipend amount per mural, the
committee agreed to rebate artists a stipend of up to $7,500 with flexibility by the committee to
distinguish between murals of larger scales that may require more funding and smaller scale
projects. The SSA will begin developing the RFP and open call application process for the project.
Motions for the SSA Commission
Motion 1: To approve spending not to exceed $15,000 from line item 2.06 (public art) to fund up to a
maximum of 5 artists to create storefront activation art installations. Motion made by DG. SM seconds.
All in favor. Motion passes.

 Motion 2: To approve spending not to exceed $15,000 from line item 2.06 (public art) to fund mural
installations on approved sites. Motion made by DG. AM seconds. All in favor. Motion passes.

 