WPB Guide Development Committee
Minutes
May 8, 2017
In attendance: Brent Norsman, Marcy Huttas, Shelby Hastens (new resident), Pamela Maass (Executive
Director), Jessica Wobbekind (Managing Director), Michael Ashkenasi (SSA Program Specialist)
1. The committee discussed safety flyers
a. This could be a one-pager with the back side detailing the SSA programs
2. The committee discussed business development
a. MA- Andersonville has a full-time business development manager, the key is cultivating
the relationships
b. MH- do we have good vacancy rate information? This is really important information to
have
c. BN- this is a promotional thing- highlight the neighborhood assets, possibly give an
incentive for businesses coming in? Could we have Teska do a printed piece to go with
the Master Plan and the annual report?
d. MH- it would be helpful to have a better understanding of the tax incentives to keep a
commercial space vacant.
e. MA- at the very least, we could reach out to owners of vacant properties and request
better maintenance.
Motion 1: to approve the design and printing of a printed pamphlet to attract, maintain and highlight
businesses in our commercial district using the information from the Market Study update in an amount
not to exceed $3,500 from line item 4.01
BN motions, MH 2nds, all in favor
f.

This piece should highlight unique things about the neighborhood – for example: there
are x# of record stores here and x# vintage stores
g. Staff will investigate how to get business license data in a spreadsheet to sort
h. Once a printed piece is complete, we can reach out to the aldermen, commercial real
estate brokers. MA- host a breakfast for commercial real estate brokers to tell them
what we want/need in WPB
3. The committee reviewed the Façade Rebate Application update for 1709 West Division
a. This location was approved for a rebate of $2,654 in March, the scope of work has
increased to include an awning, would like to revise the application to include these
costs.
Motion 2: to approve an increase in the funding of a façade enhancement rebate for 1709 West Division
from $2,654 an additional $1,600 to total a rebate in an amount not to exceed $4,254 from line item
2.03 (façade enhancement rebates).
b. The committee briefly discussed the inclusion of awnings in the façade enhancement
rebate program. In a situation like the application above, it is a complete build-out of
the frame and is significant improvement to the streetscape. It is less beneficial to the
streetscape to fund the replacement of the fabric of the awning. Awnings will remain
eligible and be reviewed on a case by case basis.

 4. The committee discussed the quality of life / safety programs and reviewed the security services
rebate program
a. We will add ground floor and note that the guards need to be identifiable to the
description of security services
b. The committee discussed easily implementable action items:
i. Give-aways such as lights
ii. Printed material
1. A postcard mailed to every PIN holder and businesses
a. Include safety tips, SSA programs

 