Sheridan Road Special Service Area #54 Commission Meeting
Royal Coffee
Thursday, October 9, 2014 / 8 a.m.

Minutes
Present: Jennifer Clark, Commissioner; Sean Connolly, Commissioner; Chris Bell, Commissioner; Paul
Reise, SSA 54 Manager; Carolina Juarez, RPBA Staff.
Absent: Heather Hill, Chair; Tony Fox, Commissioner; Michelle Akan, Commissioner.
1. Welcome
The meeting was called to order at 8:09 a.m.
2. Community and Public Input
None.
3. Review and approval of July 2014 Minutes
No corrections were requested no errors were found or additional information requested.
Motion to approve July 2014 minutes (Clark / Connelly). Unanimously approved.
Review and approval of September 2014 Minutes
No corrections were requested no errors were found or additional information requested.
Motion to approve August 2014 minutes (Bell / Connelly). Unanimously approved.
4. Staff Report
a. August Financials
Commission discussed financials. It was also discussed that SSA 54 should focus on
sticking to a specific plan. A score card will be created for SSA 54 as a reference at every
meeting.
b. Polar Palooza- Winter Market/Festival
Jennifer Clark reported status of event. Paul has been communicating with business
owners about participating in festival, their response has been lukewarm.
c. Street “Furniture”
i. Planters- Paul will move forward with planting along Sheridan Road.
ii. Lights – Paul also updated commission on the price of piggy-back lights along
Sheridan Rd. The Commission agreed to purchase lights.
iii. Bike Fixit Stand – Paul updated that Bike Fix-it Stand will be purchased for
$1200.00 and a permit obtained for the spring.
5. Old Business
6. New Business

 a. Holiday lighting- There is a contractor willing to work with the City of Chicago’s process,
Polar Palooza organizers and SSA 54 to place holiday lighting along the trees on Sheridan
Road (SSA 54). The commission agreed to move forward with lighting of trees as their
holiday decorations for 2014 with a cap of $15,000.00.
b. Commissioner Chris Bell would like to see a bulleted list of changes made to 2015
Budget.
7. Adjourned at 9:09a.m.

 