Transportation Committee
Thursday, January 10th, 2019 - 8:40am-10:20
Wicker Park Bucktown Chamber of Commerce - 1414 N. Ashland Ave.

In attendance: Brent Norsman (Co-chair), Joe Hall (Co-chair), Lindsey Bayley (voting
member), John Paige (voting member)
Staff: Garrett Karp (SSA Program Manager)
Guests: David Ginople (SSA Commission Chair), Wayne Janik (SSA Commissioner),
Jake Panter, Dan (Transit Tees)
1. Wayfinding / Thirst Updates
a. Awaiting response from CDOT for meeting
b. Shared most recent shop drawings and explained concept to new attendees
c. BN, DJ, JP, JH asked staff to look into possibility of 4th kiosk location near
Clybourn Metra stop (original plan was for 3).
Motion 1: to approve spending not to exceed $4,000 from line 2.04 (Wayfinding &
Signage) for the fabrication of a 4th wayfinding kiosk to be installed in the vicinity of the
Clyborn Metra station near the intersection of Ashland & Courtland
BN Motions, JP Seconds, All in favor. Motion passes.
2. Bike Racks
a. Bike infrastructure: GK updated the committee on conversations with CDOT’s
bike parking contractor and plans to work with CDOT to permit and install all of
the SSA’s new bike racks and bike pumps going forward. SSA Staff prepared a
detailed inventory of SSA bike racks (along with other street furniture) and crosschecked this list with CDOT in preparation for future street furniture orders.
CDOT also submitted a list of approved locations for new bike racks. 28 uninstalled bike racks are currently sitting in Cleanslate storage from a previous
order and staff will work with CDOT to get these installed and permitted along
with the rest of our bike racks before ordering new bike racks.
b. The committee took an informal vote on the design of the branding/decals to be
installed on the new Bike Pumps. The design will include the WPB gnome and
vertical “WPB SSA #33” – the plan is to work with CDOT to installed/permit the
bike pumps in a similar manner to the bike racks
3. Planters
a. The committee asked staff to get quotes for ordering 34 medium sized planters
and 3-6 larger planters to begin the ordering process for the $20,000 in planters
approved in October of 2018.
b. The committee asked staff to begin conversations with CDOT and/or BACP
about a proposal for installing planters on Damen Ave and/or the Polish Triangle

 c. DG suggested looking into wraps for planters, including ordering a test orange
wrap to see if it is a better option for branding and deterring vandalism
4. Benches
a. The committee reviewed the inventory of benches and recommended that focus
of the upcoming bench order (approved in October of 2018) should be Milwaukee
Avenue and also Damen Avenue if possible.
b. The Committee believes the bench at 2107 N Western Ave (at Shakespeare)
was damaged

5. 2018 Annual Report focusing on street furniture
a. Committee asked that wayfinding also be included in this report
6. Lights strung over a people space
a. GK mentioned new string lights on Sheffield north of Belmont (SSA 17), in
addition to others (Portage Park Six Corners, Lincoln Avenue in Lincoln Park),
b. Committee would like to investigate getting quote for stringing lights and
business owner approval for the 2 dead-end streets on Milwaukee Avenue
(Hermitage & Wood)
7. Parklets
a. Check in with city on price and logistics of “Make Way for People” parklets.
Perhaps SSA could create a program to split costs with individual businesses
who would like to apply for a people spot on their own?
8. Topics for 2019 and/or Commissioner Retreat
a. Elevated pedestrian crosswalks on Milwaukee
b. Digital Speed Limit Signs / Speed Cameras
c. Air Quality Sensors
d. Alley Program at dead end streets or the alley next to Subterranean (in Master
Plan)
e. GK brought up Tom Bob’s street art covering utilities
f. Better PR/recognition for transportation committee’s initiatives

Next meeting:
February 14

 