Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
Monday, February 11, 2019 2:30pm - 4:30pm 2949 W. Devon Ave., Chicago
MINUTES
Commissioners Present: Irshad Khan, Sanhita Agnihotri, Jayesh Shewakramani, Rebeca
Vasquez
Commissioners Absent: Avi Bereliani, Maura Nemes, Pete Valavanis
Commissioner Candidates Absent: Mohammad Bozai
Service Provider Staff Present: Sandi Price, Gina Caruso, Tony Pelikan (Rogers Park Business
Alliance)
Public Officials Present: Alderman Debra Silverstein
Guests: Robert Taylor, Edin SeferovicWest Ridge Chamber of Commerce (WRCC); Bonnie
Tawse, Bonnie Tawse Consulting
I. Call to Order at 2:38pm
II. Public Input – Robert introduced Bonnie Tawse who will be managing the Chamber’s
special event Labor Day weekend. She presented the draft scope and budget for the
event. Gina asked about proposed sources of income. Bonnie went over options, such as
food/drink tickets, sponsorship, and beer sales as the main sources of income. Robert
said the Chamber’s proposal is the SSA pays half and the Chamber pays half. The SSA
Commission was open to this arrangement.
The Commission and Chamber discussed that sponsorship would offset the cost for both
the SSA and Chamber, but otherwise the Chamber and SSA would commit to a set
amount to pay for the event. The Commission discussed the SSA’s financial input and
agreed to sponsor a portion of the event. Chamber will get a budget amount to approve
by the Commission before the March 18 meeting so it can be discussed at this meeting.
Motion to partner with the Chamber on this event. Jay Rebeca APPROVED.
III. Review and approve draft January 2019 Meeting Minutes – Motion to approve the
minutes by Jay with a second by Sanhita. APPROVED
IV. Financials
V. Programs & Services
a. BIP & Sign Removal Rebates – no updates
b. Public Way Security Camera Program Update – Ald. Silverstein discussed
the new CPD SDCS (Strategic Decision Support Center) Room. Sandi
1

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
reported that she toured the room and asked questions about cameras at
the DAC meeting. The CPD/DAC referred her to OEMC and the standard
OEMC private camera program, so RPBA will refine the latest estimates
for cameras with the vendors and target having a vendor approved at the
March SSA meeting.
c. Public Way Beautification
i. Streetscape Update – Gina reported that their research into companies
that are qualified to perform light pole painting are extremely limited and
recommended retaining Pressure Washing Unlimited to do the project.
Motion to approve Pressure Washing Unlimited by Sanhita with a second
by Rebeca. APPROVED
ii.Holiday Decorations Update
1. Out lights – CDOT is coordinating involved parties to resolve the
out light issue
2. Out light audit – Illuminight is doing an audit this week of out
lights.
3. Color/program change will take place in March and
coordinate with the On Devon promotion campaign
4. Mandalas – Illuminight is targeting end of this month to have the
prototype installed on Western Ave.
5. Ribbon removal – occurring before February 20
Public Art – status as a priority in 2019 – The Commission agreed
iii.
to target doing two murals in 2019 and target Western Ave. and
Devon/California
d. Public Way Maintenance
i. Snow Removal update – The Commission understands they are
getting the level of service they paid for; however, the removal
occurs too late 0 businesses have mostly cleaned up the snow by
the time the crew arrives. Sandi will send the Commission the
contract and RFP to review it – the SSA can either pay for the level
of service they expect or not offer the service. Sheridan SSA has a
different vendor. See how they are performing.
ii.Pressure Washing priorities – The Commission wants to do an RFP
for entire SSA area with gum removal and include an estimate for
doing just corners
e. Landscaping - no updates – on target to do spring planting
2

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 Devon SSA #43 Commission Meeting
f. Customer Attraction
i. PR Progress Report – Silverman Group is working on launching an On
Devon promotion campaign and prepared an email and survey to send to
businesses. Gina edited both and will send out this week. Tony and Irshad
along with other SSA Commissioners can conduct surveys with businesses
in their zones.
ii.Special Events
1. Devon's Got Talent -Irshad will know this week if Bombay
Hall can be ADA accessible. The Commission changed the
date to Sunday, November 10th.
2. Movie Night – The Commission wants a Movie Night on
June 23 and invite the Chicago Children’s Choir to perform.
g. SSA Open Houses – 2019 Dates & Locations Spring -The Commission
wants to schedule a Rebate Program Clinic and invite vendors to attend
so businesses can complete applications on the spot. Schedule for
Wednesday April 17 in an area where facades are most needed and
rebates are mostly done –consider hosting at Ajwaah Sweets.
h. Economic Development
i. Public data in the Devon SSA map- the Commission wants to add
leasing info to the map. Tony to check scope.
VI. SSA Commission
a. New Candidate Recruitment – Irshad and Sanhita Report – Irshad said
Mohammad Bozai will commit to attending starting in March. Sanhita spoke with
Natasha Sudhir at Devon/California.– Jay invited Junaid Butt from Sabri Nihiri to
attend meetings and consider applying.
b. Next meeting: March 18, 2019 2:30pm – 4:30pm
VII.

Old & New Business
a. Opened / Closed Businesses
b. Parking – parking issue – Omni and Republic Banks offered their lots for valet
parking. Ald. Silverstein will look into how many businesses –look at map – and
see how many need to sign to add metered parking on Sunday. Sandi said SSA
cannot do anything with parking.

Adjournment Motion to adjourn at 4:20pm by Sanhita with a second by
VIII.
Rebeca. APPROVED

3

Service Provider: Rogers Park Business Alliance 1448 W. Morse Ave. Chicago, IL 60626
Devon SSA 43 Hotline: 773.372.0391 Office: 773.508.5885 ssa43@rpba.org

 